03.11.2019	Stabenow Statement on Great Lakes Cuts in Trump Administration Budget Request Monday, March 11, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, released a statement on the proposed Trump Administration budget that would make a 90% cut to funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: “The Trump Administration just doesn’t get it and is once again gutting funding for the Great Lakes. Just like last year, and the year before, the people of Michigan will make their voices heard and I will lead the bipartisan fight to restore every penny.” The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which Senator Stabenow authored in 2010 and has continued to champion, is critical to cleaning up the Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways and fighting invasive species like Asian carp. According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. President Trump proposed cutting funding to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in his 2017, 2018, and 2019 budget requests. Senator Stabenow led the effort to restore that funding all three years.
03.06.2019	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Legislation to Reinstate Net Neutrality Wednesday, March 06, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced legislation to overturn the Federal Communications Commission’s 2017 decision to repeal net neutrality rules. The “Save The Internet Act” ensures that all Americans have access to a free and open internet. Companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives. “Access to the internet is not a luxury, it is a necessity,” said Senator Stabenow. “People in Michigan depend on reliable, high-speed internet to run their businesses, get an education, and succeed in their daily lives.” “Access to an open internet is crucial for entrepreneurs, small business-owners, students and families across Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “I’m proud to support legislation to restore net neutrality protections, which will reinstate rules of the road that will keep the internet, free, open and competitive.” The Senate passed legislation reinstating net neutrality in the last Congress, but it was not taken up by the Republican-controlled House of Representatives. In 2017, the FCC repealed rules that prohibited internet service providers from blocking, slowing down, or discriminating against content online. Repealing these net neutrality rules could lead to higher prices for consumers, slower internet traffic, and even blocked websites.
02.26.2019	Senator Stabenow Questions Pharmaceutical CEOs on High Drug Prices Tuesday, February 26, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, today questioned the CEOs of seven leading pharmaceutical companies in a hearing regarding the high cost of prescription drugs. Senator Stabenow called attention to the fact that American taxpayers fund billions of dollars in basic research for pharmaceutical companies to develop new medicines. According to a recent report, NIH-funded research contributed to every single one of the 210 new drugs approved by the FDA from 2010–2016. Cumulatively, American families contributed more than $200 billion in grants towards research. WATCH Senator Stabenow’s opening remarks in the Senate Finance Committee. According to their most recent SEC filings, the seven companies testifying today spent $79.16 billion on selling, marketing, and administrative expenses last year – $22 billion more than what they spent on research and development. The Republican tax bill also gave pharmaceutical companies a huge tax cut but these companies are still not lowering prices for families. Stabenow also noted that the seven CEOs who testified today made over $100 million in compensation in 2017. “Big Pharma charges more because it can,” Senator Stabenow said today in the Senate Finance Committee hearing. “People in Michigan deserve better and they should be able to afford their medicine here at home.” Senator Stabenow also questioned the CEO of AbbVie, Richard Gonzalez, regarding the high price of Humira, the world’s best-selling drug that treats arthritis, Crohn’s disease, and ulcerative colitis. AbbVie Pharmaceuticals is offering up to 80% discounts for European customers to buy Humira. No such deal exists for American consumers. WATCH Senator Stabenow’s questions for the CEO of AbbVie.
02.15.2019	Stabenow, Peters Announce Senate Passage of Resolution Honoring John D. Dingell Friday, February 15, 2019 Stabenow, Peters Announce Senate Passage of Resolution Honoring John D. Dingell WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced Senate passage of a resolution honoring the life and legacy of former Congressman John D. Dingell. The bipartisan resolution, which was co-sponsored by 17 other Senators, passed the Senate unanimously. “With this resolution, we pay tribute to a true Michigan – and American – legend, the Dean of the House and my longtime friend, Congressman John D. Dingell,” said Senator Stabenow. “John Dingell loved Michigan. He understood the connection our people have to manufacturing, to agriculture, and to the land and our Great Lakes. He always claimed to be the “luckiest man in shoe leather.” I have to say that our state and our country were very lucky too.” “I was proud to join Senator Stabenow in leading this effort to honor the life and legacy of Chairman Dingell,” said Senator Peters. “Chairman Dingell was my mentor and my friend, and his service to Michiganders and our country will never be forgotten. As we reflect on all the incredible things he accomplished, we also continue to mourn his loss with his beloved family and a grateful nation.” U.S. Senators Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Richard Burr (R-NC), Tom Carper (D-DE), Bob Casey (D-PA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Ed Markey (D-MA), Patty Murray (D-WA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) co-sponsored the resolution. The resolution reads as follows: Honoring the life, achievements, and distinguished public service of John David Dingell, Jr., and expressing condolences to his family on his passing. Whereas, on February 8, 2019, the death of Representative John David Dingell, Jr. (referred to in this preamble as “John Dingell”), former Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, brought a sense of deep personal loss— (1) to his family, including his wife, Representative Deborah “Debbie” Dingell of the 12th congressional district of Michigan, and his children and grandchildren; (2) to his many former colleagues and friends; (3) to Members of Congress; and (4) to the people of the United States; Whereas John Dingell represented the people of southeastern Michigan with distinction in the House of Representatives for 59 years, from December 13, 1955, to January 3, 2015, making John Dingell the longest serving Member of either chamber of Congress in the history of the United States; Whereas the father of John Dingell, the late John David Dingell, Sr., preceded John Dingell in service as a Member of the House of Representatives from March 4, 1933, to September 19, 1955; Whereas the wife of John Dingell, Deborah Dingell, succeeded John Dingell on January 3, 2015, and continues to serve as a Member of the House of Representatives; Whereas the people of southeastern Michigan have entrusted John David Dingell, Sr., John Dingell, and Deborah Dingell together to serve as their voice in Congress for the past 86 years; Whereas John Dingell was raised from the age of 6 in southeast Michigan, the home State of the parents of John Dingell, and the State that John David Dingell, Sr., was elected to serve in the 73rd Congress; Whereas John Dingell was fiercely proud of his Polish-American roots and throughout his life shared the joys of his heritage with others, including by delivering paczki pastries to colleagues, staff of the House of Representatives, and visitors to the Capitol; Whereas John Dingell had his first taste of public service and participation in government as a page for the House of Representatives; Whereas John Dingell, while serving as a page for the House of Representatives, in the Hall of the House of Representatives on December 8, 1941, witnessed President Franklin Roosevelt deliver the iconic address asking for a declaration of war against Japan following the bombing of Pearl Harbor; Whereas John Dingell was drafted into the United States Army at the age of 18 and served honorably; Whereas John Dingell received a Bachelor of Science degree and a Juris Doctor degree from Georgetown University; Whereas, prior to being elected to the House of Representatives, John Dingell worked— (1) in private law practice; (2) as a park ranger with the National Park Service; and (3) as an assistant prosecutor; Whereas John Dingell was elected to the House of Representatives following the death of John David Dingell, Sr., in 1955 and was reelected 29 times; Whereas John Dingell— (1) advocated for affordable health insurance coverage for seniors in the United States, a cause championed by John David Dingell, Sr.; and (2) worked to secure the enactment of the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) in 1965, presiding over the passage of the Social Security Amendments of 1965 (Public Law 89–97; 79 Stat. 286) in the House of Representatives; Whereas John Dingell witnessed President Lyndon B. Johnson sign into law the Social Security Amendments of 1965 (Public Law 89–97; 79 Stat. 286), which enacted the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.); Whereas John Dingell was a crusader for the environment, helping to author and shepherd to passage— (1) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.); (2) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); (3) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (Public Law 92–500; 86 Stat. 816), which formed the basis of the modern Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.); (4) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and (5) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.); Whereas John Dingell fought to make civil rights a part of the platform of the Democratic Party in 1960, standing up to people who believed it would alienate certain voters and declaring that making civil rights a platform issue was the right thing to do; Whereas John Dingell was a strong supporter in the House of Representatives of— (1) the Civil Rights Act of 1957 (Public Law 85–315; 71 Stat. 634); (2) the Civil Rights Act of 1960 (Public Law 86–449; 74 Stat. 86); (3) the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000a et seq.); and (4) the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.); Whereas John Dingell served as chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives from January 3, 1981, to January 3, 1995, and again from January 3, 2007, to January 3, 2009, and served as the ranking minority member during the years in between, making John Dingell the senior Democratic member on that Committee for 26 years; Whereas, during every Congress in which he served, John Dingell introduced legislation to provide universal access to health care; Whereas, in 2010, John Dingell invited Speaker Nancy Pelosi to use the gavel with which he presided over passage of the Social Security Amendments of 1965 (Public Law 89–97; 79 Stat. 286), which included the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.), to preside over passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18001 et seq.) in the House of Representatives; Whereas John Dingell, over the course of his tenure in the House of Representatives, served with the following 11 Presidents: Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and Barack Obama; Whereas John Dingell served as Dean of the House of Representatives from January 3, 1995, to January 3, 2015; Whereas John Dingell retired from the House of Representatives in 2015 and was succeeded by his beloved wife, Deborah, whom he referred to as his “lovely Deborah”; Whereas Deborah Dingell carries on the legacy of John Dingell and now serves as co-chair of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee in the Democratic Caucus; Whereas, in 2014, President Barack Obama awarded John Dingell the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor of the United States; Whereas John Dingell, both before and after retirement, gathered a large following on Twitter, where he demonstrated wit, wisdom, and clever commentary on politics in the United States while promoting greater civility, patriotism, tolerance, justice, and inclusion; and Whereas John Dingell was held in the highest esteem by Members of Congress from both parties because of his record tenure in office, sharp intellect, good humor, congeniality, and belief in working together to achieve consensus through trust and camaraderie: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) honors the life, achievements, and distinguished public service of John David Dingell, Jr.; and (2) expresses condolences to the family of John David Dingell, Jr., on his passing.
02.14.2019	Senate Passes Stabenow-Peters’ Legislation Supporting MotorCities National Heritage Area Thursday, February 14, 2019 Washington D.C. – This week, the Senate passed legislation by U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) to support the MotorCities National Heritage Area in Southeast Michigan. The Preserving the MotorCities Heritage Act, which passed as part of the National Resources Management Act, will increase the authorized funding cap for the area from $10 million to $12 million through 2021. Without this increase, the MotorCities National Heritage area would have soon been ineligible to receive federal funding. “The people of Michigan can out-work, out-think and out-imagine anybody and MotorCities has been a key part of celebrating that legacy,” said Senator Stabenow. “This funding will help MotorCities continue to tell our story in Michigan for generations to come.” “Michigan’s rich automotive tradition not only explains our past – it also inspires future generations of scientists, designers and engineers,” said Senator Peters. “As Michigan continues to lead in the future of mobility, I am pleased to help preserve the story of how Michigan put America on wheels.” “We are very grateful for the faith and support of both of our Michigan Senators, Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, for introducing this bill that strengthens the MotorCities National Heritage Area,” said Shawn Pomaville-Size, Executive Director of MotorCities. “As a direct result of their leadership, we can continue to promote and utilize Michigan’s unique auto heritage for the benefit of its citizens and visitors.” Headquartered in Detroit and established in 1998, the MotorCities National Heritage Area Partnership is a nonprofit corporation affiliated with the National Park Service that serves 16 counties representing a population of over 6.5 million. Its mission is to preserve, interpret and promote the region’s rich automotive and labor heritage. Regional programs inspire residents and visitors with an appreciation for how the automobile changed Michigan, the nation, and the world. Each year, MotorCities generates $410.4 million in economic impact, supports 4,560 jobs and creates $35.4 million in tax revenue in Michigan. The National Resources Management Act also permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund which expired September 30th of last year. This fund has helped protect and preserve Michigan’s natural treasures, including the Sleeping Bear Dunes and Pictured Rocks National Lakeshores, and our three national forests. Michigan has received over $334 million from the fund, which has enhanced hundreds of parks across the state for families to enjoy, for generations to come. The fund also supports the Forest Legacy Program, which has invested millions to protect Michigan’s working forests.
02.13.2019	Senator Stabenow Introduces Medicare at 50 Act Wednesday, February 13, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced the Medicare at 50 Act (S.470) to give people between the ages of 50 and 64 years old the option of buying into Medicare. Millions of Americans approaching retirement or forced to retire early due to layoffs or mandatory retirement face increasing health care needs and rising costs. U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) is an original cosponsor of this legislation. “Our legislation is a win-win for Michigan families,” said Senator Stabenow. “It will help strengthen Medicare, lower costs, and improve care for millions of people.” “Providing anyone age 50 or older the option to buy into Medicare is a commonsense measure that will help expand access to affordable health care for millions of families across the country, including in Michigan,” said Senator Peters. Allowing more Americans to buy into Medicare has the potential to lower their costs, reinforce the existing Medicare program, and strengthen the existing health insurance marketplace. Recent polling from the Kaiser Family Foundation indicates that 77 percent of the public supports giving people between the ages of 50 and 64 the option to buy Medicare. Today, 27% of adults approaching retirement are not confident that they can afford health insurance over the next year, and more than a quarter have issues navigating health insurance options, coverage decisions, and out-of-pocket costs. Many did not get the care they needed because of how much it would cost or kept a job or delayed retirement to keep their employer-sponsored health insurance. U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Ed Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tina Smith (D-MN), and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) also cosponsored the Medicare at 50 Act. Congressmen Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Peter Welch (VT-AL) are introducing companion legislation in the House.
02.12.2019	Peters, Portman, Stabenow, Duckworth Reintroduce Bipartisan Legislation to Bolster Great Lakes Funding Tuesday, February 12, 2019 WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Gary Peters (D-MI), Rob Portman (R-OH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) today reintroduced bipartisan legislation to boost Great Lakes funding and research efforts and help support effective fishery management decisions. The Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization (GLFRA) Act gives the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) the legislative authority to support the $7 billion Great Lakes sport and commercial fishery industry. Despite holding one-fifth of the world’s fresh water, the Great Lakes science program does not receive the same level of funding authorization as science centers on the country’s saltwater coasts, and this legislation will help decrease the resource gap between the Great Lakes Science Center and other fishery research centers across the nation. “The Great Lakes are critical to the health of our environment and our entire country’s economy,” said Senator Peters, Member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This bipartisan effort will establish a reliable funding source and provide the leverage Great Lakes researchers needs to conduct the cutting edge research that will preserve native fish populations and target invasive species.” “The Great Lakes are an invaluable resource to Ohio, critically important to both our environment and our economy,” said Senator Portman, co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “By authorizing the USGS’s Great Lakes Science Center for the first time, we are prioritizing the research on fish populations and invasive species used by the Great Lakes states as well as Canada to support the health and growth of our $7 billion fishing industry. This bill will ensure we have the resources to help protect the Great Lakes for generations to come.” “Our Great Lakes and waterways are part of who we are and our way of life,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “From water quality issues to invasive species, there are so many challenges facing our lakes and fisheries, which is why funding for cutting-edge research is so important.” “The Great Lakes support 1.5 million jobs and are the source of drinking water for tens of millions of Americans,” said Senator Duckworth. “We need to do everything we can to restore the Great Lakes and rebuild our fish and wildlife populations, which is why I am proud to join my colleagues and back this bipartisan legislation.” “Great Lakes protection and restoration depend on sound science,” said Robert Lambe, executive secretary of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, a Canada-US treaty organization. “The Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization Act will bring Great Lakes science into the 21st century, apply new technologies to improve our understanding of the basin's ecosystem, and help state and tribal authorities manage the $7 billion fishery. I commend Senators Peters, Portman, Duckworth, and Stabenow for spearheading this important legislation.” The USGS Great Lakes Science Center is currently funded through the USGS’s base appropriation with no sole source of funding of its own. The organization requires authorizing legislation and a dependable funding stream to conduct and modernize fishery research throughout the five Great Lakes to support effective fishery management decisions. This bill gives the USGS Director greater authority to devote money to the Great Lakes and authorizes $17.5M per year for fiscal years 2019-2027. Companion legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives. Located in Ann Arbor, the Great Lakes Science Center maintains staff and field stations in five of the eight Great Lakes States, including Michigan, Ohio, New York, Indiana and Wisconsin. It owns and operates five large fishery research vessels and is the only agency that conducts lake-wide fisheries science assessments on each of the five Great Lakes. Their research has included advancing a suite of projects to support restoration efforts of native prey fish populations throughout the Great Lakes basin; leading world-class research on the most notable invasive species in the history of the Great Lakes: the parasitic sea lamprey; and helping to implement one of the largest freshwater telemetry fish-movement-tracking networks in the world.
02.07.2019	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Former Congressman John Dingell Thursday, February 07, 2019 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following the passing of former U.S. Congressman John Dingell: “Congressman John Dingell—the Dean of the House and my dear friend—was not merely a witness to history. He was a maker of it. His original family name, translated into Polish, meant ‘blacksmith.’ Nothing could be more fitting for a man who hammered out our nation’s laws, forging a stronger union that could weather the challenges of the future. John Dingell loved Michigan. He understood the connection our people have to manufacturing, to agriculture, and to the land and the Great Lakes that support our Michigan way of life. His wife, Debbie, who has been his closest confidant for more than 40 years, is working hard to carry on his legacy. I know that all of us in Michigan are sending her and their family and many friends our love and support at this time.”
02.06.2019	Stabenow, Peters Announce $19.2 Million for Flash Flooding Recovery Efforts in the Upper Peninsula Wednesday, February 06, 2019 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will award a grant totaling $19.2 million to the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) for disaster recovery projects in Gogebic, Houghton and Meonminee Counties. The funding will be used to repair highways and roads that were significantly damaged as a result of the flash flooding that occurred in communities across the Upper Peninsula in June of last year. “I had the chance to see the destruction last year and strongly advocated for this funding,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is an important step forward for the families and communities impacted by the flood in recovering from this devastating damage. “I saw firsthand the devastation of the flooding last year – much of which occurred without warning. But I was also struck by the resiliency of these communities that worked tirelessly to repair their homes and businesses and support their neighbors,” said Senator Peters. “I urged the Department of Transportation to provide resources to help neighborhoods impacted, and I’m pleased the agency is now taking the necessary steps to help Michiganders as they work to rebuild stronger than ever.” “Houghton County is very pleased to hear about the $19.2 million in federal aid that is to be received to support the ongoing road work to recover from the Father’s Day flooding and we are extremely grateful to Senators Stabenow and Peters for their efforts in obtaining this funding,” said Eric Forsberg, Houghton County Administrator. “This has been, and continues to be, a long and stressful process for many Houghton County residents but, thanks to the efforts of our Road Commission and city crews, tremendous gains have been made in the effort to repair our roads and an end is in sight.” “The Houghton County Road Commission is grateful to receive the funds necessary to pay for repairs to roadways damaged in the Father’s day flood,” said Kevin Harju, P.E., Manager of the Houghton County Road Commission. “Several of the repairs have been completed and there are more repairs that will need to be completed this summer. The Houghton County Road Commission is still working on securing an addition $3 million to pay the required 20% match requirement for federal aid projects. These funds will help us to be able to continue to design and repair damages caused by the flood.” Last August, Senators Stabenow and Peters wrote a letter to President Trump urging him to consider then-Governor Snyder’s appeal of the denial of Individual Assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The Trump Administration’s refusal of this funding – despite the assessment of state and local officials on the ground – denied assistance to property owners across the Upper Peninsula that needed to repair or rebuild their damaged homes and business due to the flash floods. The appeal came after the President had granted his earlier application for Public Assistance grants at the request of Peters and Stabenow, which are allocated to help rebuild public infrastructure.
02.06.2019	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce Legislation to Award Aretha Franklin with Congressional Gold Medal Wednesday, February 06, 2019 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI), as well as Representative Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) introduced bicameral legislation to posthumously award the “Queen of Soul” Aretha Franklin the Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of her outstanding artistic and cultural contributions. The legislation was originally introduced in August 2018 in the wake of Franklin’s passing. The Aretha Franklin Congressional Gold Medal Act would honor Franklin’s role in shaping the nation’s culturally and socially relevant discography, and highlight how she was an example to all people in how one person’s talents can make a difference in the lives of millions of people across the globe. The legislation is also cosponsored by Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA). “Aretha Franklin’s voice and soul were truly larger than life,” said Senator Stabenow. “Awarding her the Congressional Gold Medal would further celebrate her legacy and recognize her contributions to the arts, civil rights and the City of Detroit. She will never be forgotten.” “Aretha Franklin was a global icon and fierce advocate for civil rights, women’s rights and the City of Detroit,” said Senator Peters. “Awarding her the Congressional Gold Medal would be an appropriate tribute to a legendary talent who will continue to inspire artists and activists for generations, and I am proud to join my colleagues in this effort to honor the Queen of Soul.” Aretha Franklin’s music served as a 1960s call to action that inspired thousands to join civil rights movements and still maintains a social context that resonates across these movements today. Beyond her contributions to music and arts, Franklin was a philanthropic individual who supported causes related to civil rights, human health, and gender equality, in addition to causes within the creative arts.
02.05.2019	Senator Stabenow Statement on State of the Union Address Tuesday, February 05, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “I am deeply concerned about the direction of our country reflected in the President’s address this evening. We need to come together and find bipartisan solutions on issues important to Michigan like fixing our nation’s infrastructure, lowering the cost of health care, and keeping jobs in the United States.”
02.05.2019	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bill to Stop President from Using Emergency Declaration to Raid Critical Michigan Priorities RAIDER Act of 2019 stops President Trump from bypassing Congress and raiding Army Corps and military funds for border wall Tuesday, February 05, 2019 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, introduced the Restrictions Against Illegitimate Declarations for Emergency Re-appropriations (RAIDER) Act of 2019. This legislation prevents the president from utilizing the National Emergencies Act of 1976 to raid any funding from U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or Military Construction accounts for construction, land acquisition, or other activities related to President’s Trump’s border wall following any potential emergency declaration, unless Congress granted specific authority to do so. President Trump has repeatedly threatened to declare a national emergency to bypass Congress and finance construction of his border wall, and recent press reports indicate a declaration is being drafted in the White House. Under the National Emergencies Act, the funds most at risk of being misdirected to build the president’s wall are U.S. Army Corps of Engineers civil works funds and Military Construction funding. This could take 2019 funds away from vital Michigan infrastructure priorities including the construction of a new Poe-sized Soo Lock, efforts to stop Asian carp, as well as support for 26 dredging projects within the Great Lakes. “An emergency declaration by President Trump would divert critical funding away from Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our bill would make sure that Michigan priorities like the Soo Locks, dredging of our harbors, and stopping Asian carp aren’t zeroed out for President Trump’s unnecessary wall.” Recently, Senator Stabenow wrote a letter to the Army Corps of Engineers asking for assurances that no funding would be reallocated for construction of a border wall. In a written response, the Army Corps provided no assurances. The RAIDER Act is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Jack Reed (D-R.I.).
02.04.2019	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Funding to Help Improve Health Care Services for Children in Schools Monday, February 04, 2019 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced seven school-based health centers in Michigan will receive $696,861 from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Health Resouces and Services Administration (HRSA). This funding will increase access to mental health, substance abuse and childhood obesity-related services in school-based health centers. The centers receiving funding are: Baldwin Family Health Care in Baldwin - $100,000 Cherry Health in Grand Rapids - $100,000 Henry Ford Health System in Detroit - $100,000 North West Michigan Community Health Agencey in Charlevoix - $97,870 Oakland Integrated Healthcare Network in Pontiac - $100,000 St. John Community Health Investment Corporation in Warren - $98,991 William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak - $100,000 In 2017, Senators Stabenow and Peters introduced the Hallways to Health Act to help school-based health centers improve health care services for children. In Michigan, school-based health centers play a major role in providing basic health services for thousands of students who have limited access to medical care outside of school. Typically, a school-based health center provides a combination of primary care, mental health care, substance abuse counseling, case management, dental health, nutrition education, health education and health promotion activities. “Too many children across our state do not have access to a family doctor and depend on school-based health centers for basic care,” said Senator Stabenow. “This funding is critical in making sure children across Michigan receive the care they need throughout the school day.” “No matter which school district you live in, every child should have access to trained medical professionals throughout the school day,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased that this federal funding will help provide quality health care services to more students across Michigan.” “We are grateful to US Senators Stabenow and Peters for their advocacy for children’s health,” said Betty Priskorn, Vice President of Community Health and Outreach at Beaumont Health. “This HRSA grant will allow four Beaumont school-based health centers to increase youth access to mental health, substance abuse, and childhood obesity-related services through tele-counseling. These health centers are located in communities that have a high number of economic and health indicators affecting children and adolescent.” “For 24 years, Cherry Health has provided essential medical, dental, and behavioral health care at Burton Health Center,” said Julie Tatko, Chief Operations Officer of Cherry Health. “This grant allows us to make improvements to the facility that will enhance our services for Burton students and the community.”
01.17.2019	Senator Stabenow Announces New Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics in St. Clair and Washtenaw Counties Thursday, January 17, 2019 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced that two new Michigan community mental health centers have been selected as Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics. St. Clair County Community Mental Health Authority will receive $4 million and Washtenaw County will receive $3,426,420. Each clinic will receive this funding over the next two years to provide comprehensive behavioral health and addiction treatment services. Last year, Senator Stabenow announced the selection of the first four Michigan community mental health centers in Kalamazoo, Ludington, Muskegon and Auburn Hills followed by an additional three in Lansing, Novi and Southgate. With today’s announcement, these nine centers will receive $34,523,352 million in funding. Today’s announcement is a direct result of the passage of the Excellence in Mental Health and Addiction Act by Senator Stabenow and Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) in 2014. This law is transforming the way behavioral health and addiction treatment services are delivered across the country with the establishment of new Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics. These clinics are required to provide a comprehensive set of services including 24/7/365 crisis services; outpatient mental health and substance abuse treatment services; immediate screenings, risk assessments, and diagnoses; and care coordination including partnerships with emergency rooms, law enforcement, and veterans groups. “One in five Americans lives with some type of mental illness yet fewer than half of those individuals get the treatment they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “That’s why I’ve been committed to making sure we fund mental health treatment the same way we fund other health care. Now these Michigan clinics will have the resources they need to expand community mental health and addiction services.” “We are extremely excited about the opportunity this brings to our community to serve those in need of mental health services,” said Trish Cortes, the Executive Director of Washtenaw County Community Mental. “We are very appreciative of the commitment and leadership Senator Stabenow has provided.” “We’re going to be able to do so much more with this grant including more care for people in the military, active duty and veterans, as well as individuals with substance use disorders and others who have had difficulty getting the help they need within our community,” said Deb Johnson, Executive Director of St. Clair County Community Mental Health. “We are so thankful to Senator Stabenow for her help in promoting community mental health services and look forward to all we will accomplish with this expansion.” This funding comes from the Community Behavioral Health Clinic Expansion Grants program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Senator Stabenow recently secured $150 million to fund this grant program. Michigan has the most clinics of any state to receive funding through this grant program.
01.15.2019	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Extend Community Health Center Funding Tuesday, January 15, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) introduced the Community Health Investment, Modernization, and Excellence (CHIME) Act, which would reauthorize community health center funding for five years. Funding for the program will expire September 30th this year. Community health centers, or Federally Qualified Health Centers, provide comprehensive medical, dental, vision and behavioral health services to underserved communities. In addition, the bipartisan bill provides annual funding increases for community health centers beginning in 2020. Senator Stabenow continues to lead a bipartisan effort with Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) to reauthorize and increase funding for community health centers. There are 45 health centers and more than 300 satellite sites in Michigan. “These centers are a lifeline and safety net for more than 28 million people nationally and more than 700,000 people in Michigan, including 217,000 children and 13,000 veterans,” said Senator Stabenow. “Continuing the program and increasing funding before it expires on September 30th will provide certainty to health care providers and clinics, continue services for the children and families who now depend on these centers, and begin to address the unmet need of so many others for affordable quality health care.” "Sen. Stabenow has been a tireless champion when it comes to supporting community health centers here in Michigan," said Loretta V. Bush, Michigan Primary Care Association CEO. "She knows that health centers are on the frontlines of managing chronic diseases and addressing the opioid epidemic — all while saving taxpayer dollars. This legislation will help community health centers continue to provide quality, integrated care to the people who need it most." “This legislation helps secure much needed long-term funding for Community Health Centers at a time when the demand for preventive care in communities across the country continues to grow,” said Tom Van Coverden, Chief Executive Officer for the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC). “Health centers now serve 28 million people nationwide, including more than 355,000 veterans. Their mission to reduce chronic disease in communities, curb health care costs and deliver savings to the American taxpayer is working and must be allowed to continue. We are also up to the challenge of addressing the nation’s opioid epidemic and other crises in collaboration with Congressional leaders. We are grateful for Senators Blunt and Stabenow and for their leadership in advancing a bipartisan solution that will make a difference in the lives of millions of Americans.” The CHIME Act is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.), Tammy Baldwin (Wis.), Shelley Moore Capito (W.Va.), Ben Cardin (Md.), Tom Carper (Del.), Susan Collins (Maine), John Cornyn (Texas), Cory Gardner (Colo.), Cindy Hyde-Smith (Miss.), Doug Jones (Ala.), Angus King (Maine), Joe Manchin (W.Va.), Bob Menendez (N.J.), Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), Gary Peters (Mich.), Dan Sullivan (Alaska), Jon Tester (Mont.), and Roger Wicker (Miss.).
01.14.2019	Senators Stabenow and Peters Request Update from Army Corps on Plans to Divert Money from Soo Locks, Other Michigan Infrastructure Priorities to Build Border Wall Monday, January 14, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following news reports that President Trump is asking the Army Corps of Engineers to identify funds that could be used for construction of a border wall, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters (D-MI), member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, wrote to the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) to request an update on any intentions to reallocate funds away from the Soo Locks and other Michigan infrastructure priorities. “We write to receive assurances that the Army Corps is not considering reallocating funding away from the Soo Locks, and other agency projects critical to the safety and wellbeing of Michigan and the entire Great Lakes,” the Senators wrote. “Likewise, it is critical that no funds be diverted from projects essential to Great Lakes navigation and public safety. We would [also] strongly oppose any effort to redirect funding allocated to combat Asian carp.” Last year, President Trump signed the Senators’ bipartisan legislation authorizing Congress to provide the necessary funding to construct another Poe-sized lock. There have been no comprehensive improvements to the Soo Locks in nearly 50 years. A sudden closure would have devastating economic consequences and could cause Michigan’s unemployment rate to hit 20 percent. A copy of the Senators’ letter may be found below. January 14, 2019 The Honorable R.D. James Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310 Dear Assistant Secretary R.D. James: President Trump has stated that he has “an absolute legal right” to declare a national emergency in order to secure the southern border. Recent reports indicate the President had considered using Army Corps funding to build a barrier along the U.S.-Mexico border. We write to request an update on any intentions by your agency to change the spending levels outlined in the Work Plan for Fiscal Year 2019. Namely, we write to receive assurances that the Army Corps is not considering reallocating funding away from the Soo Locks, and other agency projects critical to the safety and wellbeing of Michigan and the entire Great Lakes. It is imperative that no funding be diverted from the operations and maintenance of the Soo Locks or the initial work necessary to construct a new Poe-sized lock. As you are aware, the Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, is a critical gateway though which 80 million tons of commercial goods pass annually. A sudden closure would have devastating economic consequences and there have been no comprehensive improvements to the facility in nearly 50 years. The FY2019 Work Plan includes $32.38 million to begin the process for building a much-needed new lock and over $15 million to ensure the existing locks remain operational. We are on borrowed time and it is imperative that this funding not be reallocated or reduced. Likewise, it is critical that no funds be diverted from projects essential to Great Lakes navigation and public safety. The FY2019 Work Plan outlines spending for 26 dredging projects within the Great Lakes, totaling $48 million. This includes five new dredging projects and three projects with additional dredging funds added. Maintenance of these harbors is critical to commercial and recreational navigation, public safety, and the economies of our state and local communities. Lastly, we would strongly oppose any effort to redirect funding allocated to combat Asian carp. This includes the resources in the Work Plan dedicated to operating and maintaining the electric dispersal barriers in the Illinois River as well as the funding to complete GLRMIS-Brandon Road Chief’s Report. This funding is of critical importance in the near- and long-term to preventing Asian carp from causing great harm to the Great Lakes. We have continually communicated with you in person and in writing the undeniable importance of these projects to the well-being of the Great Lakes and to the economies of Michigan, the region, and the country. We look forward to receiving a prompt response confirming that these funds in the FY2019 Work Plan are not being redirected to pay for constructing a barrier on the U.S.-Mexico border.
01.11.2019	Senator Stabenow Introduces Legislation to Lower Cost of Prescription Drugs Friday, January 11, 2019 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), ranking member on the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Health Care, introduced legislation aimed at lowering the cost of prescription drugs. Americans pay – by far – the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. Already this year, prices on more than 1,000 medications have experienced an average price hike of six percent. “It’s absurd that our own government is prohibited from negotiating lower prescription drug prices for seniors under Medicare and that people across our own Michigan border in Canada pay so much less for their prescriptions,” said Senator Stabenow. “My bills will help put an end to these outrageous practices and Big Pharma’s price gouging of American families. Pharmaceutial and health product lobbying reached $216 million last year, more than any other industry. Stabenow is introducing two pieces of legislation that will combat rising prescription drug costs: The Empowering Medicare Seniors to Negotiate Drug Prices Act would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to directly negotiate with drug companies for price discounts of their drugs, which is banned under current law. And the Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to issue regulations permitting wholesalers, licensed U.S. pharmacies, and individuals to import safe medications from licensed Canadian sellers that are manufactured at facilities inspected by the Food and Drug Administration. Currently, Americans pay about 40 percent more on prescriptions per person than Canadians do. This follows Senator Stabenow’s successful effort last year to get her bipartisan Know the Lowest Price Act passed into law - cracking down on outrageous gag clauses that stop pharmacists from telling customers that they could pay less for their prescription if they pay out of pocket.
01.10.2019	Given Changes in Tax Code, Stabenow, Wyden, Senators Ask Treasury Secretary Why Taxpayer Advocate Not Considered Essential Service during Government Shutdown Thursday, January 10, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), member of the Senate Finance Committee, Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR), and 15 other Senators today raised concerns regarding the impact of the government shutdown on services to taxpayers at the beginning of the first filing season under the new tax code. In a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, the Senators asked why the Taxpayer Advocate Service, which directly helps more than 200,000 taxpayers resolve tax and filing issues most years, was not considered an essential service during the government shutdown. “The shutdown has closed every office of the Taxpayer Advocate Service across the country at a time when families and businesses are trying to determine the taxes that they owe and resolve disagreements with the IRS,” the Senators wrote. “Taxpayers should receive their refunds in a timely manner, but taxpayers should also receive the necessary assistance to ensure that they are filing their taxes correctly and that they have advocates working on their behalf.” “We therefore request the following: In the now expired contingency plan, please detail how the Department of Treasury decided that the Taxpayer Advocate Service should not be included in the contingency plan. In the new proposed contingency plan, will this decision stand or will the Taxpayer Advocate Service be asked to return during the filing season? Please provide a copy of the Department of the Treasury’s plan to assist taxpayers who are facing financial difficulties as a result of problems with filing their taxes or obtaining refunds in the event that a lapse in funding for the IRS continues into tax filing season. U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Angus King (I-ME), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) also signed the letter to Secretary Mnuchin. January 10, 2019 The Honorable Steven T. Mnuchin Secretary of the Treasury Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington DC, 20220 Dear Secretary Mnuchin: We write today to raise concerns about the impact of the government shutdown on services to taxpayers provided by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). We are concerned that, if the shutdown continues into the filing season, taxpayers will face tremendous hardship in getting questions answered and issues addressed. In order to help taxpayers navigate the complexities of the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS houses the Taxpayer Advocate Service. The Taxpayer Advocate Service assists both individuals and businesses with resolving tax and filing issues. However, the IRS website currently displays the following alert: Please be aware that due to the lack of an approved federal budget, all Taxpayer Advocate Service offices across the country are closed. No staff will be available to assist you during this time. Please check your local media for news about when our offices will reopen. The shutdown has closed every office of the Taxpayer Advocate Service across the country at a time when families and businesses are trying to determine the taxes that they owe and resolve disagreements with the IRS. The IRS’s lapsed appropriations contingency plan, which determines what functions the agency can perform during a shutdown, indicates that many functions related to taxpayer service will be unavailable until the shutdown ends. The contingency plan does not include call center services prior to filing season, when taxpayers may try to contact the IRS to get answers before the IRS is overwhelmed by filing-season calls. The shutdown has left taxpayers without vital services and without recourse. Following media reports on the hardship that would be placed on taxpayers if the shutdown delayed the issuance of tax refunds, the IRS announced on January 7th that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) had, at your request, reviewed the IRS proposed contingency plan. This review resulted in the reversal of longstanding OMB precedent that restricted certain agency activity. Taxpayers should receive their refunds in a timely manner, but taxpayers should also receive the necessary assistance to ensure that they are filing their taxes correctly and that they have advocates working on their behalf. The shutdown is causing confusion and creating hardships for taxpayers going into the tax filing season, and these problems will quickly get worse if the shutdown continues into the filing season. The Administration’s decision to reject the unanimous Senate bill to fully fund the entire government, including the IRS, has hurt taxpayers. We therefore request the following: In the now expired contingency plan, please detail how the Department of Treasury decided that the Taxpayer Advocate Service should not be included in the contingency plan. In the new proposed contingency plan, will this decision stand or will the Taxpayer Advocate Service be asked to return during the filing season? Please provide a copy of the Department of the Treasury’s plan to assist taxpayers who are facing financial difficulties as a result of problems with filing their taxes or obtaining refunds in the event that a lapse in funding for the IRS continues into tax filing season. We look forward to your prompt response so that we can better understand the reasoning behind these actions and ensure that taxpayers are protected and receiving full assistance from the Internal Revenue Service during tax filing season.
01.09.2019	Stabenow Statement on Nomination of Andrew Wheeler to be EPA Administrator Wednesday, January 09, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement on the nomination of Andrew Wheeler to be the next Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: “The next head of the EPA must stand with us to protect our Great Lakes and make decisions based on sound science. I voted against Andrew Wheeler to be Deputy EPA Administrator because I had no confidence he would do that. I am deeply concerned that he will continue Scott Pruitt’s legacy of undermining protections for our air and water if confirmed as EPA Administrator.”
01.08.2019	Senator Stabenow Delivers Floor Remarks on Impact of Government Shutdown Tuesday, January 08, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today spoke on the Senate Floor regarding the ongoing government shutdown and its impact on families in Michigan and across the country. “This shutdown fight shouldn’t be about politics. It should be about people,” said Stabenow. “And it’s the American people who are losing. A transcript of her remarks may be found below. Video of her remarks may be found here. ### “Mr. President: “Here in Washington, President Trump is demanding walls that he’s expecting American taxpayers to pay for. Walls that the majority of experts do not believe will be effective in keeping us safe. “Meanwhile, in Michigan, hundreds of Customs and Border Patrol officers – who keep us safe every day – are working without pay. And that’s wrong. “The President says we need more security. I support strong border security. Strong, effective border security. I also support economic security for hardworking Michigan families. “Some federal employees in Michigan are wondering how they can support their families … pay their mortgages … and keep the heat on without the paychecks they’re supposed to receive on Friday. “And President Trump is talking about a “humanitarian crisis.” “Here’s a humanitarian crisis: 38 million people who depend on food assistance to keep food on their tables now have to worry that it might suddenly be gone. Most of those Americans are senior citizens, people with disabilities, and children. “This shutdown fight shouldn’t be about politics. It should be about people. And the American people are losing. “One issue we should be able to agree on is the border. We all support border security. “I certainly know the importance of border security as a member from a border state. “The professionals on our Northern Border keep us safe every day, and they know what they need to do their jobs. “They are asking for more resources, more people, and above all, better technology. “What they don’t need is a first-century solution to a 21st-century problem. “Building a wall on our border is a little like providing the U.S. Army swords and shields and expecting them to defend our nation. “Unfortunately, this Administration is more focused on the merits of concrete vs. steel than actually protecting the American public. “If our border is a “national emergency,” then why hasn’t the President spent the hundreds of millions of dollars that have already been allocated for border security? We already allocated dollars for border security, the majority of which has not been spent. “We can all agree that border security is important. “And we should also be able to agree that workers deserve to be paid and be able to take care of their families. “I’ve heard from Michigan workers who can’t pay their bills and are desperately seeking temporary jobs, families who have been left without health insurance, and contractors who know that even if federal workers get paid back, they won’t. “There are also thousands of small businesses that depend upon spending by federal employees to remain open – dry cleaners, neighborhood stores, local restaurants. “The shutdown is also hurting American agriculture. “At the end of last year, we passed a strong, bipartisan Farm Bill to help farmers struggling with low prices, growing trade concerns, and unpredictable weather. “During these difficult times, our farmers desperately need the predictability and confidence that a 5-year Farm Bill provides. That’s what Senator Roberts and I spoke about every day on the floor of the Senate. We need to put in place a five-year Farm Bill with predictability for farmers and rural communities and families. “However, the President has undermined the certainty that the Farm Bill provided by continuing this shutdown on the U.S. Department of Agriculture. “Every day that the USDA is shut down is another day that the improvements we made in the 2018 Farm Bill are delayed. “Local Farm Service offices all across Michigan are closed and farmers can’t apply for loans they need as they look to next year. We have dairy farmers in very desperate situations. We dramatically increased support for them in the Farm Bill and they need it now. “Important crop reports are halted while farmers are making decisions for the upcoming planting season. All kinds of technical information that they need to move forward. “The USDA Rural Development office is the economic development arm for every small town and every rural community in Michigan. And rural homeowners can’t receive the housing loans they need to finance their homes and pay their mortgages. “And we can’t forget our families on food assistance. “38 million people are able to put food on their table thanks to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – or SNAP. “While we should certainly do everything we can to ensure that food assistance is available in the near term, and I appreciate the Department working on that, our families deserve long term certainty. “Especially considering that nearly 70% of those on SNAP are seniors, children, or people with disabilities. “It is unconscionable to risk letting those most in need go hungry because of the politics of a government shutdown. “And beyond SNAP, school meals, support for women, infants, and children, and food for seniors are all at risk if this shutdown does not come to an end. “And due to this shutdown, local food banks are no longer receiving funds to distribute and store food. “Very, very real consequences are going on. We could go through every single department to speak about what is happening to real people and what will happen if this is not resolved. “We can disagree about a lot of things. “Yet we should all be able to agree that the people keeping us safe every day should be paid. “Federal workers should be able to pay their bills and take care of their families. “And children, seniors, and people with disabilities shouldn’t have to worry where their next meal is coming from because of a government shutdown. “It’s time for the President to end this. It’s very easy. “The House and the Senate have both passed the appropriations bills on a bipartisan vote. At the end of the last year we passed it in the Senate. It was just passed last week in the House. “We can repass those bills. They can go to the President’s desk and this shutdown should end. He should sign the bipartisan appropriations bills and he should put the American people first. “We can and will continue to debate what border security looks like. We can debate how we can be most effective doing what we all want to see get done. But it’s time to stop the shutdown and for the President to sign the appropriations bills that are bipartisan and make sure the American people know that he is on their side. “Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.” ###
01.03.2019	Stabenow Calls on Senate Republicans to Allow Vote on Funding Bills That Would Re-Open Government Thursday, January 03, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed government funding bills that would end the 13-day partial government shutdown: “This government shutdown is hurting Michigan and our country. It is forcing thousands of border agents and TSA officers to work without pay, creating instability for our farmers, and threatening funding for our Great Lakes. Tonight, the House of Representatives passed two bills to re-open the government and help secure the border. The Senate should pass these bills immediately and President Trump should sign them.”
12.27.2018	Senator Stabenow Nominates 32 Michigan Students to Military Academies Thursday, December 27, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced today that she has nominated 32 Michigan students for placement at the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY, the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. “Michigan is fortunate to have so many exceptional students who want to serve our country through military service,” said Senator Stabenow. “Having demonstrated a strong commitment to excellence in and out of the classroom, I am confident they will represent Michigan and our country well.” Students seeking appointment to a service academy must first obtain the nomination of their U.S. Senator, their U.S. Representative, or the Vice President. Students nominated by Senator Stabenow’s office went through a highly competitive application process that included interviews by veteran, military and community leaders. Now that the students have been nominated, they must await acceptance for admission by the academy to which they have applied. The following students have been nominated by Senator Stabenow to a service academy (by region): Southeast Michigan: Alfred Biland – Chesterfield, West Point Anthony Demitry – Novi, Air Force Academy Ava Millman – Ann Arbor, Naval Academy Daniel Reimchen – Lake Orion, West Point Delace Jia – Bloomfield Hills, Naval Academy Erika Rapp – Whitmore Lake, West Point Jacob Muscato – Pinckney, Air Force Academy Joshua Klein – West Bloomfield, West Point Julia Marshall – Belleville, Naval Academy Michael Lance – Ann Arbor, West Point Michael Yamin – Bloomfield Hills, Air Force Academy Rachael Baker – Leonard, Air Force Academy Savannah Benson-China – Detroit, Air Force Academy West Michigan: Brandon Pham – Grand Rapids, Naval Academy Diego Campos – Battle Creek, Naval Academy Jack Horton – Hastings, West Point Janna Ercole – Nunica, West Point Mary Podiak – Portage, Naval Academy Mason Doorn – Lowell, Air Force Academy Tyler Twiss – Holland, West Point Upper Peninsula: Dante Cyrus – Houghton, Air Force Academy Peter Nyfeler – Marquette, Air Force Academy Peyton Johnson – Iron Mountain, Naval Academy Northern Michigan: Henry Carroll – Traverse City, West Point Joseph Buswinka – Manistee, Air Force Academy Matthew Jeffery – Sheridan, Merchant Marine Academy Samuel Lowery – Alanson, Naval Academy Mid-Michigan: Caitlin Crittenden – Lansing, Air Force Academy Colin Day – Haslett, West Point Flint/Great Lakes Bay/Thumb Region: Connor Van Loo – Freeland, Naval Academy Emily Jedrzejczak – Avoca, Naval Academy Malan Manwaring – Clio, Merchant Marine Academy
12.21.2018	Stabenow, Peters, Amash Announce Senate Passage of Legislation Naming Lake Odessa Post Office after Michigan’s First Female Letter Carrier Friday, December 21, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) as well as U.S. Congressman Justin Amash (MI-03) announced that the Senate has passed H.R. 1850 to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility located at 907 Fourth Avenue in Lake Odessa as the “Donna Sauers Besko Post Office Building.” Donna Sauers Besko was an Okemos native who became Michigan’s first female letter carrier. This legislation, authored by Congressman Justin Amash, passed the House of Representatives earlier this month and Senators Stabenow and Peters led the effort to pass it in the Senate. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for signature. “We are so grateful for Donna Sauers Besko for her leadership and inspiration in becoming our first female letter carrier in Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “I was glad to partner with Senator Peters and Congressman Amash to pass this bill that honors Donna Sauers Besko.” “Donna Sauers Besko’s commitment to the mission of the United States Postal Service helped brake a barrier and blaze a career path for countless others,” said Senator Gary Peters. “Renaming the postal facility in Lake Odessa after Donna Sauers Besko will serve as a fitting tribute to her life’s work, and I was proud to join with Senator Stabenow and Congressman Amash to pass this legislation.” “It has been a pleasure to work with Mrs. Donna Sauers Besko’s family, as well as local officials and members of the community, to honor this pioneering figure in Lake Odessa’s and the Post Office’s history,” said Representative Amash. “With this naming, the Donna Sauers Besko Post Office Building can serve as a reminder to everyone not to let anything stand in the way of pursuing your dreams.” Donna Sauers Besko was born in Okemos in 1918. She started her career working as a clerk for the United States Postal Service out of the post office in Lake Odessa. After Lake Odessa switched to city delivery, she applied to be a letter carrier. Mrs. Sauers Besko became Michigan’s first female letter carrier and went on to work as a rural letter carrier in Perry until President Lyndon Johnson appointed her Postmaster of the post office in Ovid, Michigan. She retired from this position in 1980 after working for the United States Postal Service for 28 years.
12.20.2018	Senator Stabenow: President Trump Signs Bipartisan Farm Bill Thursday, December 20, 2018 Today U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow applauded the enactment of the 2018 Farm Bill after President Trump signed the bill into law. Stabenow co-authored the bill as Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. “The 2018 Farm Bill is now the law of the land,” said Senator Stabenow. “In Michigan, agriculture is our second largest industry, supporting one in four jobs. This bill will grow our state’s diverse agricultural economy and support our farmers, families, and rural communities.” The bipartisan bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies, and providing healthy food for families. A summary of the 2018 Farm Bill is available here.
12.19.2018	Senate Unanimously Approves Bipartisan Stabenow Bill to Ensure Veterans in Michigan Receive Full Housing Benefits Wednesday, December 19, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced unanimous Senate passage of legislation she cosponsored, the Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act, to ensure the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reimburses veterans in Michigan for missed or underpaid housing benefits. In 2017, Congress passed the Forever GI Bill which was designed to reimburse student veterans based on the zip code they live in and not the location of their school. Following passage, the VA issued a number of improper payments and it is believed that hundreds of thousands of veterans have been impacted by the VA’s processing delays, including more than 82,000 veterans who were still waiting to receive their housing payment as of November 8. The Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act addresses the VA’s failure to fully comply with reimbursement rates set by requiring the VA to: End improper payments as soon as possible; Establish a team of specialists who will be responsible to report to Congress a detailed plan to correct this egregious error; Provide a report to Congress by July 2020 that identifies how many beneficiaries were impacted and to what extent, aggregated by state; and Certify the department is fully compliant with the law. “Our student veterans shouldn’t have to reach into their own pockets to pay for a benefit they have earned,” said Senator Stabenow. “This bill holds the VA accountable for its failures in properly repaying our student veterans.” The Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act was introduced by Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Brian Schatz (D-HI), and is also cosponsored by Sens. Jon Tester (D-MT), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Mark Warner (D-VA) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH). The legislation will now go to the House. In November, Senator Stabenow sent a letter to VA Secretary Robert Wilkie calling for transparency regarding its efforts to expedite processing of living stipend payments for veterans receiving Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits. Senator Stabenow also sent a letter in December to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Inspector General Michael Missal to launch an investigation into missed or underpaid VA benefits.
12.17.2018	Senator Stabenow, Mayor Duggan, Agriculture Leaders Highlight Farm Bill Wins for Michigan Monday, December 17, 2018 DETROIT – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, and Michigan agriculture leaders today highlighted the wins for Michigan in the recently passed 2018 bipartisan Farm Bill at an event at Eastern Market. They were joined by Mike DiBernardo from Eastern Market, Pete and Paul Blake from Blake’s Orchard, as well as Jerry Ann Hebron from Oakland Avenue Urban Farm. “It was so great to join the Mayor and Michigan agriculture leaders today in Detroit as we highlighted the wins for our state in my bipartisan Farm Bill,” said Senator Stabenow. “The Farm Bill will grow our state’s diverse economy and support our farmers, families, and communities. It’s truly a bipartisan victory that has Michigan on every page!” "Thanks to Sen. Stabenow's efforts, the 2018 Farm Bill will support Detroit's growing agriculture sector,” said Mayor Duggan. “Not only does it allow for greater access to fresh produce in cities like Detroit, it will create new opportunity for urban gardeners who want to start or expand their own agriculture business." “Recent passage of the 2018 Farm Bill by Congress is very important to Eastern Market’s customers and growers,” said Dan Carmody, President of the Eastern Market Corporation. “Funding of USDA programs that support farmers and build stronger rural communities helps improve the sustainability of local food production and processing while support for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program helps vulnerable urban households afford healthy and nutritious food. Congratulations to Senator Stabenow and other leaders in the Senate and House for working across party lines to craft and pass legislation that helps Americans from all walks of life.” “The 2018 Farm Bill provides critical support for Michigan apples and ciders and other locally grown and Michigan-made products,” said Paul Blake from Blake’s Orchards. “We are grateful for Senator Stabenow’s long-standing support for Michigan’s apple industry and fruit growers.” “Thanks to Senator Stabenow’s leadership, the 2018 Farm Bill recognizes urban agriculture for the first time ever,” said Jerry Ann Hebron from Oakland Avenue Urban Farm. “Detroit is home to so many nationally recognized leaders in urban agriculture who support our communities and families by making sure people have access to healthy local foods.” Last week, the Farm Bill passed the Senate by a margin of 87-13 and the House 369-47. The bill now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The bipartisan Farm Bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill protects Michigan’s Great Lakes, invests in our small towns and rural communities, promotes Michigan forestry, supports local food economies, and provides healthy food for families. A summary of the 2018 Farm Bill is available here.
12.15.2018	Stabenow Statement on Federal Court Ruling Threatening Health Care for Millions of Americans Saturday, December 15, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on the ruling by a federal judge in Texas overturning the Affordable Care Act: “This outrageous ruling threatens health coverage for millions of Americans. If you have a pre-existing condition, you could be denied insurance or have to pay more for your coverage. Without the federal tax credits, insurance would become unaffordable for many Americans and being a woman could once again be considered a pre-existing condition. Mental health services and affordable medicine would be put at risk. And Healthy Michigan that covers one million Michiganders would be gone! This ruling must be overturned.”
12.14.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Senate Passage of Legislation Naming Howell Post Office after WWII Veteran Friday, December 14, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) announced that the Senate has passed H.R. 6020 to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility located at 325 South Michigan Avenue in Howell as the “Sergeant Donald Burgett Post Office Building.” Sergeant Burgett lived almost his entire adult life in Howell and was a World War II combat veteran. This legislation, authored by Congressman Mike Bishop, passed the House of Representatives in September and Senators Stabenow and Peters led the effort to pass it in the Senate. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for signature. “We are so grateful for Sergeant Burgett, who helped defend our country during World War II and then continued to serve his community for many years after,” said Senator Stabenow. “I was glad to partner with Senator Peters to pass this bill that honors Sergeant Burgett for his service.” “From fighting through battlefields across Europe to lending a helping hand to fellow veterans back home, Sergeant Burgett devoted his life to serving others,” said Senator Peters. “I’m honored to help ensure Sergeant Burgett will be recognized for his lifelong devotion to his community and his country.” Sergeant Donald Burgett was a member of the 101st Airborne “The Screaming Eagles,” A Company. He fought in battles throughout the European Theatre, including at Normandy on D-Day. After the war, he was a very active member of his community, including extensive service with the VFW, American Legion and Disabled American Veterans. Sergeant Burgett authored four books giving firsthand accounts of the paratroopers’ experience in WWII. He passed away on March 23, 2017 at the age of 91.
12.11.2018	Senate Passes Final Bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill Co-Authored by Senator Stabenow Tuesday, December 11, 2018 Today, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry announced Senate passage of the Farm Bill conference report, which represents the final version of the 2018 Farm Bill. The bipartisan bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies, and providing healthy food for families. “The 2018 Farm Bill is a bipartisan victory that has Michigan on every page,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is a strong bill that will grow Michigan’s diverse agricultural economy and support our farmers, families, and rural communities. I’m pleased the Senate has moved forward with the bill and look forward to the House considering it soon.” In June, Senator Stabenow and Agriculture Committee Chairman U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) co-authored the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, which the U.S. Senate passed on a historic, bipartisan vote of 86-11. The 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee formed to reconcile the differences between the Senate bill and the House version. In the Conference Committee, Senator Stabenow served as one of the four leaders and worked with Senate and House conferees to co-author the final bill. A summary of the 2018 Farm Bill is available here. Jim Byrum, President of the Michigan Agri-Business Association, said: “This Farm Bill is critical for farmers, families, businesses and communities across Michigan. We applaud Senator Debbie Stabenow for once again working across the aisle to get a commonsense, bipartisan Farm Bill across the finish line. We truly appreciate the bipartisan cooperation shown by Senator Stabenow and her colleagues to put good ideas on the table and move forward a Farm Bill that ensures a strong and productive Michigan agriculture sector.” Ken Nobis, President of the Michigan Milk Producers Association, said: “As Michigan's largest agriculture commodity, our dairy farmers are a significant contributor to our state’s economy. The new improvements in the Farm Bill will provide much-needed help for our dairy farmers, who have struggled from low milk prices. We thank Senator Stabenow for leading the effort to improve the dairy safety net in the Farm Bill.” Jason McConnachie, President of the Michigan Corn Growers Association said: “Michigan’s corn growers applaud the passage of a new farm bill that preserves risk management tools that farmers depend on and continues funding important market development programs that help build our industry. Senator Debbie Stabenow’s leadership on this issue has been critical and we thank her for her hard work on behalf of Michigan’s corn growers.” Jed Welder, Board Member of the Michigan Farmer Veteran Coalition, said: “Agriculture provides military veterans with meaningful careers and the opportunity to continue serving our country. Michigan farmer veterans across the state appreciate Senator Stabenow’s support to secure new resources in the Farm Bill that help us start and sustain a life on the farm.” Joan Nelson, Director of the Allen Neighborhood Center and Farmers Market, said: “The Farm Bill has helped the Allen Farmers Market, Incubator Kitchen, and Exchange Food Hub bring fresh, healthy food to families and institutions in our community, while also providing Michigan farmers with multiple opportunities to sell their locally grown products. Thanks to Senator Stabenow’s leadership, the new Farm Bill will continue to help farmers markets and other local food initiatives grow and thrive for years to come.” Joe Cramer, Executive Director of Michigan Bean Commission said: “The 2018 Farm Bill is a huge milestone for the Michigan bean industry. By protecting key programs that Michigan agriculture needs to continue to compete globally, this bill provides certainty and support for our farmers and their families. We worked very closely with Senator Stabenow and look forward to continuing to work with her to find new ways to strengthen Michigan's agricultural economy." Ray Van Dreissche, Director of Government Relations for Michigan Sugar Company said: “Sugar policy in this Farm Bill protects our growers from unfair trading practices and is a huge win for Michigan. The nearly 1,000 farm families who own Michigan Sugar Company, as well as the 2,300 employees who work at the cooperative are very thankful to Senator Stabenow for her leadership and hard work in getting this bill done.” Rich Bowman, Director of Government Relations for The Nature Conservancy in Michigan: “For years, the Farm Bill has been the single largest source of federal conservation incentives for farmers, ranchers and forest landowners and this bill carries on that proud tradition. The Nature Conservancy is excited to see Senator Stabenow’s efforts in championing this legislation lead to its passage. Once implemented, the Farm Bill will benefit our fish and wildlife, our Great Lakes and the conservation minded landowners who are our neighbors here in Saginaw Bay and across the country.” Greg Bird, Executive Director of the Michigan Vegetable Council, said: “Senator Stabenow has been a champion for Michigan’s diverse agricultural economy and the wide variety of vegetables we grow here. We appreciate the Senator’s work in the Farm Bill to provide certainty for our farmers through risk management tools, innovative research, and new market opportunities.” Tom Anthony, President of Michigan Rural Water Association, said: “Because many rural communities face challenges with water and waste water infrastructure, the Farm Bill is critical to helping small towns provide clean and affordable water and waste water service. Senator Stabenow has been a leader for rural Michigan, working to ensure that families and businesses across the state have safe and affordable and reliable access to water and sewer services.” Al Dietrich, Owner of Dietrich Orchards, said: “Michigan is one of the largest producers of apples in the country and the programs of the Farm Bill will allow the Michigan Apple industry to forge partnerships, increase market presence, and provide safe, high-quality fruit to consumers. The new Farm Bill will help our state’s apple growers continue to be productive and profitable. We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s long-standing support of Michigan’s apple industry." Rachel Bair, Director for Sustainable and Innovative Food Systems for Kalamazoo Valley Community College, said: “The Farm Bill has grown local food economies in Michigan, bringing fresh, healthy food to communities, while also connecting Michigan farmers with local consumers. Senator Stabenow has led the effort to grow Michigan’s local food systems, helping food go from farms to our plates.” Dennis West, President of Northern Initiatives, said: “The Farm Bill’s rural development initiatives are essential to the growth and development of rural small businesses across the state. It’s great news that this Farm Bill will expand important investments for rural communities – particularly for rural high-speed internet, which is vital to help businesses launch, grow and succeed. I appreciate Senator Stabenow’s continued leadership for rural Michigan.” Scott Robbins, Director of the Sustainable Forest Initiative and Public Affairs of Michigan Forest Products Council said: “Michigan Forest Products Council applauds Senator Stabenow and her colleagues for their agreement on the 2018 Farm Bill. The new Farm Bill’s Forestry title contains a variety of new provisions that will benefit Michigan’s forest products industry, including the expansion of the popular Good Neighbor authority and a provision to return the proceeds of Good Neighbor timber sales right back to our national forests in Michigan. Additionally, we appreciate Senator Stabenow’s leadership to include her Timber Innovation Act, which will drive new markets for innovative wood products and accelerate the interest we’re already seeing in this technology at Michigan State, Michigan Tech, and with industry partners across the state.” Glen Chown, Executive Director of Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy, said: "Farmland preservation boosts our economy, protects scenic views, ensures food security and safeguards a way of life here in Michigan. Senator Stabenow has worked tirelessly to secure vital funding that permanently preserves critical farms throughout the state, from the West Michigan Fruit Belt to urbanizing areas in central and southern Michigan. We are so grateful for her incredible leadership not just for Michigan, but for her work in preserving farms and ranches across the country." Phil Korson, President of the Cherry Marketing Institute, said: “Michigan’s cherry industry is incredibly important to our state’s agricultural economy. The Farm Bill makes important strides for specialty crops that will help our farmers grow and sell their cherries here at home and abroad. We appreciate the work Senator Stabenow has done as a champion for Michigan cherry growers.” Jim Nugent, District Horticulturist for Northwest Michigan, MSU Extension, said: “This Farm Bill makes vital strides in helping Michigan farmers sell their specialty crops which makes up an important part of our state’s agricultural economy. Senator Stabenow has always supported cherry growers and the 2018 Farm Bill is another extraordinary example of that.”
12.11.2018	Stabenow: Final Farm Bill has Michigan on Every Page Farm Bill Conference Committee releases final 2018 Farm Bill co-authored by Senator Stabenow Tuesday, December 11, 2018 Today, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry praised the release of the Farm Bill conference report, which represents the final version of the 2018 Farm Bill. The bipartisan bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies, and providing healthy food for families. “The 2018 Farm Bill is a bipartisan victory that has Michigan on every page,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is a strong bill that will grow Michigan’s diverse agricultural economy and support our farmers, families, and rural communities. I’m committed to getting this bill across the finish line by the end of the year.” In June, Senator Stabenow and Agriculture Committee Chairman U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) co-authored the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, which the U.S. Senate passed on a historic, bipartisan vote of 86-11. The 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee formed to reconcile the differences between the Senate bill and the House version. In the Conference Committee, Senator Stabenow served as one of the four leaders and worked with Senate and House conferees to co-author the final bill. A summary of the 2018 Farm Bill follows: The 2018 Farm Bill The bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill will support the one in four jobs related to food and agriculture in Michigan. It will provide five years of certainty for Michigan’s farmers, fuel opportunity in rural communities and grow small businesses. It continues historic investments in land, water and wildlife conservation, will grow Michigan local food economies, and will support families working hard to make ends meet. A Jobs Bill for Michigan The bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill fuels economic opportunity and job growth both on and off the farm in small towns and cities alike. It creates certainty – not just for farmers and farm workers, but also for equipment manufacturers, food processing businesses, retailers, and many other employers across Michigan. One in four jobs in Michigan are supported by agriculture, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The food and agriculture sector contributes $101.2 billion to Michigan’s economy annually. Rural economic development initiatives attract new employers to Michigan’s small towns and rural communities through Main Street infrastructure improvements and expanded access to high-speed internet. Forest management and innovation supports 30,000 Michigan forestry jobs, including loggers and mill workers in northern Michigan and the UP, all while finding new uses for Michigan-grown wood in manufacturing and building construction. Support for farmers markets and food hubs helps family farmers and local businesses sell locally grown food and made-in-Michigan products to families, schools, and restaurants, driving the local food economy. Historic, new urban agriculture investments creates new economic opportunities and makes it easier for urban farmers to start, expand, and protect their businesses. Clean energy and efficiency upgrades help small businesses and farmers invest in wind and solar technologies that lower utility bills and support energy installation jobs in Michigan. Support for bio-based manufacturing creates rural and urban manufacturing jobs by using Michigan-grown crops like corn and soybeans to make biofuels and Michigan-made goods like seat cushions and steering wheels. Supports Michigan Farmers From bad weather to volatile markets, farming is one of the riskiest businesses out there – which is why farmers need a strong safety net. The bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill equips Michigan farmers with risk management tools that help them stay afloat during unexpected disasters, while also allowing them to tap into new markets to boost their bottom line. Expanded crop insurance improves access for veterans, beginning farmers, and Michigan’s fruit and vegetable growers. Improvements to Agriculture Risk Coverage, Price Loss Coverage risk management tools for farmers and new support for dairy producers, spearheaded by Senator Stabenow. Creates improved dairy coverage options at more affordable rates and refunds up to $58 million in premiums paid under the former program. Permanent export opportunities will help Michigan farmers find new global markets for their goods. Continued support for specialty crop growers, which Senator Stabenow first authored in a new title in the 2008 Farm Bill, will strengthen Michigan’s diverse fruit and vegetable industry, increase productivity and drive demand for the food they grow. New help for beginning farmers, veterans, and urban agriculture creates opportunities to expand Michigan’s diverse agricultural economy and builds the bench to support the future of Michigan agriculture. Strengthened support for organic agriculture protects the integrity of Michigan organic products and helps farmers transition into a fast-growing sector of agriculture. Investments in agricultural research support the ground-breaking science and technology research being done at Michigan State University, fueling innovation and safeguarding Michigan’s agricultural economy. New national vaccine bank will protect livestock and poultry from disease outbreaks. Protects the Great Lakes and Promotes Outdoor Recreation The bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill continues to be one of the most significant investments in the conservation of land, water, and our Michigan way of life. Through targeted conservation efforts, the Farm Bill protects our Great Lakes and rivers, while preserving wildlife habitat to support hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreation. Strengthened regional conservation partnerships will leverage nearly $3 billion in private investment over the next decade for projects that protect the Great Lakes and improve wildlife habitat for hunting and fishing. Expanded conservation support for working farms will help farmers protect water quality and reduce nutrient runoff into the rivers and streams that feed into Lake Erie and Saginaw Bay, while maintaining productive and profitable farmland. New hunting and fishing opportunities are created by adding new acres to the Conservation Reserve Program and expanding public access on private land in Michigan for outdoor recreation. Recreation and wildlife habitat in Michigan’s National Forests are strengthened through U.S. Forest Service partnerships with landowners, industry, and the state. Strengthens Michigan’s Small Towns and Rural Communities Michigan’s small towns and rural communities need real resources to thrive in the 21st Century. The bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill has made critical investments to spur economic development and improve the quality of life for families. Rural water infrastructure investments address harmful contaminants like PFAS and ensure Michigan households and businesses have clean drinking water. Resources to fight the opioid epidemic will expand telemedicine and treatment facilities in rural Michigan communities. Expanded high-speed internet will help to connect nearly 1 million people in rural Michigan who lack access. Support for rural businesses, which has already invested $322 million in nearly 1,000 Michigan businesses, fuels manufacturing, rural entrepreneurship, and the revitalization of main streets. Community facility investments will continue to build hospitals, improve schools, and strengthen fire and police stations in small towns across Michigan. Improves Food Access for Families Just as the farm bill provides a safety net for Michigan farmers, it also includes a safety net for families. Building on the 2014 Farm Bill, which has saved $80 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill strengthens the integrity of the program, while preserving food access for families. New job training opportunities will help SNAP participants find and keep good-paying jobs. Permanent investments for “Double Up” bucks will help SNAP families purchase Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. Reduced paperwork for seniors makes accessing food assistance easier for grandparents on fixed incomes. Stronger oversight of SNAP will help ensure every dollar goes to families in need. “Farm to Food Bank” initiative will provide healthy, Michigan-grown foods to families, while reducing food waste. Increases support for those struggling with food insecurity and homelessness.
12.10.2018	Stabenow & Peters Urge EPA to Protect Michiganders from Lead in Drinking Water Monday, December 10, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today wrote a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler pressing the agency to implement all of the recommended policies from a July 2017 EPA Inspector General report regarding best practices to prevent another drinking water crisis from lead contamination. While EPA has acted on many of the Inspector General’s recommendations, the agency has refused to establish national controls to ensure states are complying with the Lead and Copper Rule. Insufficient federal oversight of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) was a significant factor that contributed to the Flint water crisis. “Flint is a stark, devastating example of just why a national and comprehensive oversight approach is essential,” wrote the lawmakers. “People died after being literally poisoned by their own drinking water, and thousands of Flint children will suffer the lasting consequences of local and state management failures coupled with ineffective federal oversight.” At least 90 people were sickened and 12 people died from Legionnaire’s disease caused by changes in the Flint water supply that also exposed more than 9,000 Flint children to lead. Children are especially vulnerable to lead poisoning, which can cause significant health, neurological, behavioral, intellectual, and academic impairments. Recent testing in Detroit public schools found that more than half of the 106 schools in the district have lead contaminated water. “Unfortunately, we have a long way to go to ensure safe drinking water,” the lawmakers continued. “The Detroit school district is to be commended for initiating testing and identifying alternative safe water sources, as Michigan has no state-wide rules that require school districts to test for lead in their tap water. And Detroit’s experience is unfortunately not unique; schools in some cities across the nation have relied on bottled water for more than a decade.” To strengthen federal oversight of safe drinking water, Stabenow and Peters worked to include a provision in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act requiring the EPA to notify the public of dangerously high levels of lead in drinking water when local and state officials fail to do so. The legislation also included $100 million in funding to help fix Flint’s drinking water infrastructure, funding to activate at least $200 million in low-interest loans to upgrade water infrastructure in communities in Michigan and across the country and $50 million to address the health care needs of children who have been exposed to lead. A copy of the letter can be below: December 10, 2018 Acting Administrator Wheeler Environmental Protection Agency 1101A, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler, We write to convey our concern that EPA leadership has not yet come to agreement with your Inspector General’s office on all management recommendations stemming from the Flint water crisis, and to request a meeting with you to discuss EPA’s ongoing efforts to protect the public – and particularly children – from lead in drinking water. We would like to better understand the agency’s concerns and challenges in implementing the Inspector General’s recommendations, and to work with you to ensure that what happened in Flint never happens to another community. Last July EPA’s Inspector General office issued a report identifying nine recommendations to strengthen EPA’s oversight of drinking water systems and ability to effectively monitor states’ compliance with the federal Lead and Copper rule. We joined with colleagues through the 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriation bill to require EPA to use appropriated funding to implement the Inspector General’s recommendations. We are grateful that EPA has implemented several recommendations to strengthen regional enforcement and compliance, for instance providing the public with greater visibility on the results from EPA’s ongoing reviews of Michigan’s Safe Drinking Water program. However, we understand that EPA has disagreed to implement the Inspector General’s recommendation to establish national controls to ensure states are effectively monitoring compliance with the Lead and Copper rule. Further, it is our understanding that EPA would prefer to implement a pilot or trial approach to compliance, while the Inspector General is urging this approach be broadened. Flint is a stark, devastating example of just why a national and comprehensive oversight approach is essential. People died after being literally poisoned by their own drinking water, and thousands of Flint children will suffer the lasting consequences of local and state management failures coupled with ineffective federal oversight. We fought for a year to secure emergency assistance for Flint families through the WIIN Act back in 2016, but the needed investment Congress made then is not enough. We must do everything we can to make sure what happened in Flint does not ever happen to another community. But we will not protect other children across Michigan and the nation if we fail to solve the management failures that led to Flint. Unfortunately, we have a long way to go to ensure safe drinking water. A recent review of water testing results at Detroit Public schools found that one school had more than 54 times the allowable amount of lead under federal guidelines, while others exceeded copper level by nearly 30 times. Currently, more than half the 106 schools inside Michigan’s largest school district have lead contaminated water. The Detroit school district is to be commended for initiating testing and identifying alternative safe water sources, as Michigan has no state-wide rules that require school districts to test for lead in their tap water. And Detroit’s experience is unfortunately not unique; schools in some cities across the nation have relied on bottled water for more than a decade. Within the WIIN Act is a provision we authored to require the Environmental Protection Agency to directly notify the public of dangerously high lead levels in drinking water if the local public water system and State fail to do so. We have also supported efforts to strengthen school and day care drinking water testing. These will be impossible unless EPA implements a national compliance approach that can quickly identify potential risks. Acting Administrator Wheeler, it is critical that we do all we can to ensure that communities in Michigan and across the country have access to safe drinking water. We believe EPA’s oversight and compliance efforts are vital to that effort. We hope we can soon find a time to meet so that we might better understand the agency’s concerns and challenges in meeting the Inspector General’s recommendations.
12.07.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce $40.7 Million for Infrastructure Projects in Sault Ste. Marie, Berrien County Funding will Help Restore Carbide Dock Port Near Soo Locks, Complete US-31 Connection to I-94 in Berrien County Friday, December 07, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will award two grants totaling $40.7 million for infrastructure projects in Sault Ste. Marie and Berrien County. The $20.7 million will go towards repairs for the Carbide Dock Port, which is located on the same waterway as the Soo Locks and serves as a staging area for vessels needing emergency assistance. The additional $20 million will help directly connect US-31 to I-94 in Berrien County. “Reliable and modern infrastructure is critical to Michigan’s economy and job creation,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today’s federal investment will help connect two important freeways in Berrien County and make important upgrades near the Soo Locks.” “Michigan is a hub for international commerce and trade, and we need modern infrastructure to support our economy. I applaud today’s announcement that two key projects in Michigan will receive federal funding,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Infrastructure, Safety and Security. “The Soo Locks are critical to the flow of goods through the Great Lakes, and this funding will provide much needed repairs to the Carbide Dock Port. Connecting US-31 to Interstate 94 has long been a priority in Southwest Michigan, and I’m pleased that this federal funding will make that route a reality.” The Carbide Dock Port in Sault Ste. Marie is located on the same waterway as the Soo Locks and the Sault Ste. Marie International Bridge. The funding announced today will rehabilitate the Carbide Dock Port and reconstruct connecting truck routes to the Dock. The relocation of US-31 from Napier Road to I-94 in Berrien County will better provide a free flow of traffic between the two freeways. The funding will go towards the completion of the last two miles of the limited access US-31 freeway from Napier Avenue to I-94 in Berrien County. The grant was awarded through DOT’s Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) transportation grant program, formerly known as the TIGER grant program. The BUILD program provides investments in key surface transportation projects around the country, which are awarded on a competitive basis for projects with significant regional impact.
12.04.2018	Senator Stabenow, Colleagues Call For Inspector General Investigation into VA’s Failure to Pay Veterans Full Benefits Tuesday, December 04, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow urged the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Inspector General Michael Missal to launch an investigation into missed or underpaid VA benefits. Stabenow joined Senators Brian Schatz (D-HI) and John Boozman (R-AR) in a bipartisan letter to the VA’s Inspector General calling for answers on how the technical errors occurred, how quickly any reimbursements will be made, and how the VA plans to make sure all benefits will continue to be paid out without interruption. “The VA’s continued ambiguity about whether it will fulfill this legal requirement threatens to erode our veterans’ confidence in the VA’s ability to deliver promised care and benefits and demands close oversight and accountability,” the lawmakers wrote. “It is important that VA fix the technical and staffing shortages that contributed to its inability to implement the Forever GI bill so that it can continue to provide housing stipends to veterans. However, we remain resolved that VA make veterans whole for any missed or underpaid benefits based on the housing stipend rates that they were legally entitled to when the changes took effect in August 2018.” The letter was also signed by Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tina Smith (D-MN), Todd Young (R-ID), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Patty Murray (D-WA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Doug Jones (D-AL) as well as U.S. Representative Derek Kilmer (D-WA). Earlier this year, Stabenow introduced the Student Veterans Housing Act to ensure student veterans do not lose VA housing benefits in between academic semesters. In November, Senator Stabenow sent a letter to VA Secretary Robert Wilkie calling for transparency regarding its efforts to expedite processing of living stipend payments for veterans receiving Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits. It is believed hundreds of thousands of veterans receiving GI Bill benefits have been impacted by VA’s processing delays, including more than 82,000 veterans who were still waiting to receive their housing payment as of November 8 according to VA data. Full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. Missal: We are writing to request an investigation into allegations that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will withhold retroactive payments for missed or underpaid monthly housing stipends that it failed to pay veterans during delayed implementation of the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act (P.L. 115-48), known as the “Forever GI Bill.” According to NBC News on November 28, 2018 (“Veterans Affairs Dept. tells Capitol Hill it won't repay underpaid GI Bill benefits recipients”), VA officials told congressional staff that making retroactive payments to veterans for missed or underpaid housing stipends would not be possible because it would create auditing challenges for the VA and delay future claims processing. That decision would be contrary to law and leave an estimated 360,000 veterans robbed of the benefits owed to them. We understand that Under Secretary for Benefits Paul Lawrence, in testimony before the House Veterans Affairs Committee yesterday, sought to clarify the VA’s position by stating that every veteran will be made whole, including with retroactive payments, for their housing benefits. However, it remains unclear if VA intends to provide retroactive payments to veterans for housing stipends based on rates that they were legally entitled to beginning August 1, 2018, or if the VA only intends to make veterans whole based on the rates as they existed before the law took effect—and remain in violation of existing law. It is important that VA fix the technical and staffing shortages that contributed to its inability to implement the Forever GI bill so that it can continue to provide housing stipends to veterans. However, we remain resolved that VA make veterans whole for any missed or underpaid benefits based on the housing stipend rates that they were legally entitled to when the changes took effect in August 2018. The VA’s continued ambiguity about whether it will fulfill this legal requirement threatens to erode our veterans’ confidence in the VA’s ability to deliver promised care and benefits and demands close oversight and accountability. In an effort to help us better understand VA’s plan to provide complete relief to those veterans impacted by the delayed implementation of the Forever GI Bill, we request your assistance to answer the following: Does the VA intend to apply the August 1, 2018, housing stipend rates, as required by law, for retroactive payments to eligible beneficiaries? If not, under what legal authority would the VA withhold retroactive payments based on the rates required in the Forever GI Bill? Who will be responsible for determining which veterans can receive retroactive payments for missed or underpaid benefits, including adjusted housing stipend rates that took effect on August 1, 2018? How and when will VA process these retroactive repayments to eligible veterans? How, if at all, have IT infrastructure investment decisions at VA’s regional processing centers contributed to the current delay in implementing the changes required by the Forever GI Bill, including missed or underpayments owed to veterans? How, if at all, have staffing shortages at VA’s regional processing centers contributed to the current delay in implementing the changes required by the Forever GI Bill, including missed or underpayments owed to veterans? How, if at all, is VA leadership organized and prepared to address IT infrastructure investment challenges at its regional processing centers in its fiscal year (FY) 2020 budget request? How, if at all, is VA leadership organized and prepared to address staffing shortages across the VA system, including at the Veterans Benefits Administration that is responsible for processing claims and retroactive payments to veterans, in its FY 2020 budget request? As always, we appreciate your support of our oversight responsibilities. Your prompt attention to this request will help us as we prepare to consider the VA’s FY 2020 budget request so that we can evaluate whether the VA has requested the appropriate resources that it needs to make timely beneficiary payments and deliver other promised care to our veterans.
12.01.2018	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Former President George H.W. Bush Saturday, December 01, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on the passing of former President George H.W. Bush: “We mourn the loss of former President George H.W. Bush and honor his lifetime of service to our country – as a Navy pilot in World War II, a diplomat, and a statesman who brought principled leadership to the world. Our hearts are with the entire Bush family during this difficult time.”
11.26.2018	Senator Stabenow Statement on the General Motors Plant Closures in Michigan Monday, November 26, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released the following statement after General Motors announced they plan to close plants in Detroit-Hamtramck and Warren: “I am deeply disappointed by the GM plant closures announcement today and the devastating impact it will have on our workers, their families and our communities. Michigan has the best autoworkers in the world and I know there's no job that they can't handle. As GM considers future investments and products, it is critical that those investments be made in Michigan - not overseas! And most importantly it is critical to find opportunities for the workers who've lost their jobs because of today's announcement. I will continue to stand with Michigan's autoworkers and our communities no matter what.”
11.16.2018	Stabenow, Peters, Moolenaar Announce Senate Passage of Legislation Naming Beaverton Post Office after WWII Veteran Friday, November 16, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman John Moolenaar (MI-04) today announced that the Senate has passed H.R. 6116 to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility located at 362 North Ross Street in Beaverton as the “Colonel Alfred Asch Post Office.” Colonel Asch was a native of Beaverton and a decorated World War II combat veteran. This legislation, authored by Congressman John Moolenaar, passed the House of Representatives in September and Senators Stabenow and Peters led the effort to pass it in the Senate. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for signature. “We are so grateful for Colonel Asch, who helped defend our country during World War II and then continued to serve for many years in our military,” said Senator Stabenow. “I was glad to partner with Senator Peters and Congressman Moolenaar to pass this bill that honors Colonel Asch for his service.” “Throughout his distinguished military career, Colonel Asch displayed time and again the courage and conviction that was forged in Beaverton,” said Senator Peters. “Designating Beaverton’s USPS Facility as the Colonel Alfred Asch Post Office is a fitting tribute to his years of exemplary service, and I am pleased to see this legislation move forward.” “Colonel Asch was an American hero and it has been wonderful to lead this special effort honoring him as a proud son of Beaverton,” said Congressman Moolenaar. “He bravely flew missions during World War II, helped develop post-war civilian flight practices, and never forgot where he was from, funding a scholarship at CMU for Gladwin County residents. I am grateful to Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters for their support of this legislation honoring Colonel Asch.” Colonel Alfred “Al” Asch, who was born and raised on a farm in Beaverton, flew many successful combat missions during World War II and was awarded 13 medals including the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross with the Oak Leaf Clusters, and the Purple Heart. He passed away on December 8, 2013 at the age of 93.
11.15.2018	Senator Stabenow, Colleagues Call For Increased Transparency and Action at VA to Process Delayed Veterans Benefits Thursday, November 15, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow urged the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert Wilkie to provide additional details about its efforts to expedite processing of living stipend payments for veterans receiving Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits. Stabenow sent a letter with Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Michael F. Bennet (D-CO) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). According to recent media reports, on-going problems with VA’s IT system have resulted in many veterans not receiving the living stipend payments they use to pay for education and housing expenses in a timely manner, causing significant financial strain and hardship for veterans attempting to use the benefits they earned from their military service. Additionally, the senators requested that the Department confirm it will not retroactively collect overpayments to students resulting from other IT issues. Earlier this year, Stabenow introduced the Student Veterans Housing Act to ensure student veterans do not lose VA housing benefits in between academic semesters “For many of our nation’s veterans, the living stipend payments were expected by September 1, 2018, and the multi-month delays create a real crisis to not only their long-term education and career goals, but also their daily needs. Regardless of what caused or is causing the delay, we believe it is imperative for VA to address this issue with the urgency it deserves,” wrote the senators in the letter. “We will not stop pressing for information and action until every veteran receives the benefits they earned in their service to our country.” “As a nation we have a responsibility to be there for our veterans, and part of that duty involves fulfilling our promise to ensure they have access to education after they leave the service. These errors and delays undermine the intent of the GI Bill and put unnecessary and avoidable strain on veterans and their families during a critical time of transition,” the senators added. It is believed hundreds of thousands of veterans receiving GI Bill benefits have been impacted by VA’s processing delays, including more than 82,000 veterans who were still waiting to receive their housing payment as of November 8 according to VA data. Full text of the letter is below and the PDF is available HERE. November 13, 2018 The Honorable Robert Wilkie Secretary of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20571 Dear Secretary Wilkie: We are writing with significant concerns regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ processing delays for veterans receiving Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits. For many of our nation’s veterans, the living stipend payments were expected by September 1, 2018, and the multi-month delays create a real crisis to not only their long-term education and career goals, but also their daily needs. Regardless of what caused or is causing the delay, we believe it is imperative for VA to address this issue with the urgency it deserves. We will not stop pressing for information and action until every veteran receives the benefits they earned in their service to our country. The reported impact of these delayed benefits is significant. Media reports suggest between 340,000 and 360,000 veterans have been receiving the incorrect amount of money for their housing stipends due to ongoing information technology system failures at VA.[1] Additionally, reporting from last month suggests there is a backlog of between 140,000 and 228,000 pending education claims.[2] While we recognize that the policy for calculating Basic Allowance for Housing was recently revised and the number of claims overall has increased, these errors and corresponding delay are hurting veterans around the country who depend on these benefits to get the education they have earned. As of November 8, press reports citing VA data show over 82,000 veterans were still waiting on housing payments.[3] There is a serious risk of significant financial hardship or veterans even becoming homeless if they do not receive these payments. As a nation we have a responsibility to be there for our veterans, and part of that duty involves fulfilling our promise to ensure they have access to education after they leave the service. These errors and delays undermine the intent of the GI Bill and put unnecessary and avoidable strain on veterans and their families during a critical time of transition. We understand VA employees are working overtime and with additional support to address this challenge, but given the conflicting media accounts and the pressing nature of the concern, we ask for the following essential information necessary to conduct oversight on implementation of the GI Bill: An update on the number of veterans who are currently receiving the incorrect housing stipend amount, as well as an update on the number of education claims pending. The average wait time for payment of any education benefit claims, by type of claim. The number of regular or contract full-time equivalent (FTE) employees currently working to resolve the IT failure, disaggregated by hiring authority. The total number of FTEs receiving overtime pay for implementation, and the dollar amount of such overtime. A detailed report on the origin of the IT failures leading to processing delays, including when VA first became aware of the issue. An account of immediate steps being taken to ensure those veterans for whom the housing stipend is most essential—such as those with dependents or facing the risk of housing insecurity or homelessness—are prioritized. An account of why education claims are backlogged at a significantly higher rate than last year, and a plan for how VA will ensure this does not happen next year. Additionally, VA’s education service has said processing times are higher in the fall – since this is an entirely foreseeable issue, please describe what steps VA takes each year to increase processing capacity so wait times do not increase. We request periodic updates on the figures in questions one through four every two weeks until the problem is resolved. VA must also provide Congress with the steps it will take to ensure these issues never happen again. Finally, we ask that VA publicly confirm on its website that the agency will not retroactively collect overpayments to students resulting from the IT failures. These errors are not our veterans’ fault and any collection will add further disruption and hardship to their education. [4] We appreciate all you do to ensure we live up to our duty to our veterans and hope to work with you and VA to ensure this issue is addressed as soon as possible.
11.01.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Victory for Michigan Cherry Growers Affected by Unfair Trade New changes, urged by Stabenow, will curb foreign imports and protect Michigan’s cherry industry from harmful trade practices by Turkey Thursday, November 01, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today announced a major step forward to protect Michigan’s cherry industry, which has struggled from unfair trade practices by other countries. Starting on November 1, U.S. trade officials will no longer allow duty-free access for cherry juice imports from Turkey, providing certainty for Michigan cherry growers. “In Michigan, we grow more tart cherries than any state in the country,” said Senator Stabenow. “This change is a major victory that will help level the playing field for our cherry industry. I applaud U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer for working with me on this issue and I urge trade officials to continue to protect our cherry growers from unfair trade.” “This is a significant step forward for the Tart Cherry Industry,” said Phil Korson, President of the Cherry Marketing Institute. “The flood of cheap imports has severely affected Michigan cherry growers’ bottom line. This important change will help ensure our world famous tart cherries are getting a fair shake. We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s continued leadership for our industry.” Recently, Turkey has dumped cherry products into domestic markets, creating a trade imbalance that has made it harder for Michigan growers to sell their cherries at a fair price. As a result, the cherry industry has asked trade officials to step in and remove Turkey's unfettered access to U.S. markets. Senator Stabenow has repeatedly pressed federal trade officials to enforce the rules to hold Turkey accountable and stop them from dumping cherries. Following the U.S. Trade Representative review urged by Senator Stabenow, a presidential proclamation officially re-imposed duties on Turkish cherry juice imports effective November 1. Senator Stabenow has long been a champion for Michigan cherry growers and has led the effort to provide relief from trade imbalances. In addition to her work to improve trade policies, she successfully urged the USDA to make a bonus purchase to provide immediate support for cherry growers affected by unfair foreign competition. She also authored a new provision in the bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill to ensure that imports have to meet the same standards as domestic products.
10.23.2018	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $1 Million in Funding to Address Oscoda PFAS Contamination New federal grants will help Oscoda Township provide residents with safe drinking water Tuesday, October 23, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1 million in new federal funding to help Oscoda Township provide safe drinking water and address contamination from chemicals containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). Oscoda Township utilized changes made by Senators Stabenow and Peters in the 2018 bipartisan budget bill to raise the maximum amount of USDA emergency water grants from $500,000 to $1 million. This increase allowed the township to be awarded $1 million instead of the previous limit of $500,000. “Michigan families exposed to PFAS contamination are living with incredible uncertainty about the impact of these chemicals on their health and wellbeing,” said Senator Stabenow. “As the threats from PFAS contaminants become more known, I am working hard to make more federal resources available to address this serious and emerging threat.” “Oscoda residents are suffering serious health consequences from exposure to PFAS, and we must take every step to ensure Michiganders have access to safe and reliable drinking water,” said Senator Peters. “While this funding is an important step to help provide area residents with clean drinking water, I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure the federal government devotes much-needed resources to help clean up contaminated sites and mitigate the harmful effects of PFAS exposure.” The Oscoda Charter Township will receive a $750,000 Water and Environmental Programs Grant and a $250,000 Emergency Community Water Assistance Grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development agency. The combined $1 million in funds will be used to expand their municipal water system to approximately 140 residential users in an area of Oscoda Township due to PFAS contamination at the former Wurtsmith Air Force Base. In addition to raising the maximum grant for emergency water grants, Stabenow and Peters recently worked across the aisle to introduce the PFAS Accountability Act and the PFAS Detection Act to improve the federal response to contamination and enhance detection. Rural development water infrastructure grants are part of the current Farm Bill, which Senator Stabenow authored as Chair of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. This year, as the Ranking Member of the Committee, Senator Stabenow introduced a new bipartisan Farm Bill, which strengthens support for rural water infrastructure and targets investments to help even more communities affected by harmful contaminants like PFAS.
10.12.2018	Senators Stabenow, Peters Urge the Administration to Take Action to Protect Michigan Students from Lead in Drinking Water Friday, October 12, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters were joined by 33 of their colleagues this week in calling on the Department of Education and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to take action to protect students from lead in drinking water. A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report shows an estimated 41 percent of public school districts did not test for lead in school drinking water, and a third of districts that were tested showed elevated levels. In Michigan, schools in Detroit, Ann Arbor, Flint and elsewhere are addressing this very problem. “Lead is a neurotoxin, and any amount of exposure in a child can slow growth and development, damage hearing and speech, and cause learning disabilities,” wrote the lawmakers. “The Flint water crisis, which was caused by a series of unconscionable and short-sighted decisions, renewed national awareness about the dangers that lead exposure poses to children and public health. The crisis also underscored that even the most basic resource within our communities, safe drinking water, cannot be taken for granted – a reality confronting schools across the country.” “In total, GAO offered ED and EPA seven recommendations that will encourage school districts to test for lead and ensure testing and remediation efforts are aligned with best practices. It is critical that you implement these common-sense recommendations immediately, and we ask that you provide us with a timeline for completing all seven of GAO’s recommendations,” the lawmakers continued. “We stand ready to work with you to ensure that all schools are fulfilling their duty to provide students with clean drinking water that keeps all children safe and healthy.” U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Jeanne Shaheen, Elizabeth Warren (D-ND), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Patty Murray (D-WA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Mike Bennet (D-CO), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Bob Casey (D-PA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Edward Markey (D-MA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Tom Carper (D-DE), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jack Reed (D-RI), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Tina Smith (D-MN) also signed the letter to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and Acting Administrator of the EPA Andrew Wheeler. Last week, the Water Resources Development Act passed 99-1 in the Senate authorizing $25 million for the Lead Testing in School and Child Care Program Drinking Water Grant providing funding for lead contamination testing at schools and child care centers. More information on the grant can be found at https://www.epa.gov/dwcapacity/wiin-grant-lead-testing-school-and-child-care-program-drinking-water. The full text of the letter may be found below. The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20202 The Honorable Andrew Wheeler Acting Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Secretary DeVos and Acting Administrator Wheeler: We write to urge the U.S. Department of Education (ED) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to take immediate action to protect students from lead in school drinking water. A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that an estimated 41 percent of public school districts, serving 12 million students, did not test for lead in school drinking water[1]. Furthermore, GAO found that where school districts tested for lead, more than a third of school districts found elevated lead levels. Given that lead exposure can result in a variety of health impacts, especially for young children, we urge you to swiftly implement GAO’s recommendations to encourage more school districts to test for lead and take immediate action to combat lead in school drinking water. As you know, lead is a neurotoxin, and any amount of exposure in a child can slow growth and development, damage hearing and speech, and cause learning disabilities. The Flint water crisis, which was caused by a series of unconscionable and short-sighted decisions, renewed national awareness about the dangers that lead exposure poses to children and public health. The crisis also underscored that even the most basic resource within our communities, safe drinking water, cannot be taken for granted – a reality confronting schools across the country. In Michigan, the Detroit public school system shut off drinking water at all of the city’s public schools after finding elevated lead or copper levels in multiple public schools. In Wisconsin, 169 buildings in the Milwaukee Public School System were found to have at least one fixture that supplied water with elevated lead levels. In Indiana, 61% of 915 schools tested in recent months found fixtures with elevated lead. Schools in Colorado, Florida, New York, Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and many other states are also confronting lead in their drinking water. The GAO report made clear that ED and EPA must accelerate actions to address this problem. While both of your agencies provide guidance and other resources to states and school districts regarding testing and remediating lead in drinking water, GAO found that some EPA regional offices have not communicated the importance of testing for and remediating lead in school drinking water to school district personnel. Furthermore, GAO found that ED and EPA do not regularly collaborate to support state and school district efforts to address lead in drinking water, despite agreeing to do so in a 2005 memorandum of understanding. In total, GAO offered ED and EPA seven recommendations that will encourage school districts to test for lead and ensure testing and remediation efforts are aligned with best practices. It is critical that you implement these common-sense recommendations immediately, and we ask that you provide us with a timeline for completing all seven of GAO’s recommendations. We stand ready to work with you to ensure that all schools are fulfilling their duty to provide students with clean drinking water that keeps all children safe and healthy. [1] https://www.gao.gov/assets/700/692979.pdf
10.11.2018	Stabenow, Peters & Kildee Press EPA on Dismissal of Children’s Health Protection Office Director Thursday, October 11, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Gary Peters and U.S. Representative Dan Kildee today wrote a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler about the removal of the EPA’s Office of Children’s Health Protection Director, Dr. Ruth Etzel. The lawmakers pressed Wheeler for more details surrounding the dismissal, especially during a period when families across Michigan are facing numerous drinking water contamination crises. “It is imperative that the EPA takes every possible step to avoid childhood exposure to unsafe toxins like lead and PFAS and ensure all children are able to grow up happy and healthy,” wrote Stabenow, Peters and Kildee. “As the federal government works to reduce the unnecessary incidence of asthma, developmental delays, and cancers, the EPA needs to keep a strong focus on the youngest Americans, who are most vulnerable to the negative impacts of environmental toxins. We request more information about a sudden personnel decision that suggests the EPA is not following through with its stated commitment to prioritizing children’s health.” “Our home state of Michigan experienced one of the nation’s largest man-made environmental disasters with lead-contaminated drinking water in Flint...But the most heartbreaking stories were from parents, whose children are facing significant physical, cognitive and developmental challenges from lead exposure,” the Members continued. “Going forward, we need to ensure we have a strong national infrastructure to prevent a scenario like the Flint water crisis from ever happening again, and the Office of Children’s Health Protection is key to this strategy.” The lawmakers asked Acting Administrator Wheeler for more details regarding why the agency decided to remove Dr. Etzel, and requested additional information on how the Office of Children’s Health Protection will maintain day-to-day operations in her absence. A copy of the letter can be found here and below: October 11, 2018 Andrew Wheeler Acting Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: We are writing to express serious concerns and request further information about the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s abrupt decision to place Dr. Ruth Etzel on administrative leave from the position of Director of the Office of Children’s Health Protection. The EPA has not provided sufficient justification for the dismissal of a senior non-political professional with decades of expertise in protecting children from unsafe exposure to toxins and chemicals, nor has the agency identified a new candidate willing to perform the duties of this office. The Office of Children’s Health Protection is critical in an era where toxins in our environment, including lead, mercury, and per/polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), introduce developmental and health barriers to thousands of American youth. Our home state of Michigan experienced one of the nation’s largest man-made environmental disasters with lead-contaminated drinking water in Flint. We heard from thousands of constituents, who were forced to use bottled water to drink, cook and bathe. To this day, many still do not trust the water coming from their faucets. But the most heartbreaking stories were from parents, whose children are facing significant physical, cognitive and developmental challenges from lead exposure. Children are the most vulnerable to the ill effects of lead exposure, and they will experience the longest-term impact. Going forward, we need to ensure we have a strong national infrastructure to prevent a scenario like the Flint water crisis from ever happening again, and the Office of Children’s Health Protection is key to this strategy. The Flint water crisis is just one example of how childhood exposure to toxins can undermine the prosperity of an entire community. Children in lower income and minority communities continue to bear most of the health burden from mercury-emitting coal-fired plants. Each day, we also learn more about the chronic health conditions that develop as a result of widespread exposure to PFAS. Further research is needed on the health impacts caused by this class of over 4,700 industrial chemicals, but we already know certain PFAS increase the risk of some cancers, harm the immune and endocrine systems, and negatively affect the growth, learning, and behavior of infants and children. Based on publicly available facts, Dr. Etzel is well-qualified for the position of Director at the Office of Children’s Health Protection. She is a world-renowned pediatrician and epidemiologist with over three decades of experience aligned with the office’s mission. Prior to becoming the office’s Director in 2015, she served as a senior officer for environmental health research at the World Health Organization and received numerous national awards for her work. Dr. Mona Hannah-Attisha, a pediatrician who played a central role in elevating the impact of the Flint water crisis on children, describes Dr. Etzel as “an international leader in children’s health.” The EPA has stated that children’s health remains a top priority for the Administration at the same time it has dismissed, without apparent reason, the head of the office that oversees children’s health. As such, we request the EPA respond to the following requests for information within 30 days: What is EPA leadership’s reasoning and justification for Dr. Etzel’s removal? Which EPA officials were consulted and ultimately made the decision to place Dr. Etzel on leave? How was Dr. Etzel notified of the decision to place her on leave? How will this personnel decision impact the EPA’s ability to perform its mission of reducing environmental risk factors for children’s health? How many full-time staff have been budgeted within the Office of Children’s Health Protection for Fiscal Year 2017, 2018, and 2019? Who is performing the duties of Director of the Office of Children’s Health Protection currently? When does EPA intend to hire a new Director for the Office of Children’s Health Protection? How long does EPA intend to provide administrative leave and other employment benefits for Dr. Etzel? It is imperative that the EPA takes every possible step to avoid childhood exposure to unsafe toxins like lead and PFAS and ensure all children are able to grow up happy and healthy. As the federal government works to reduce the unnecessary incidence of asthma, developmental delays, and cancers, the EPA needs to keep a strong focus on the youngest Americans, who are most vulnerable to the negative impacts of environmental toxins. We request more information about a sudden personnel decision that suggests the EPA is not following through with its stated commitment to prioritizing children’s health.
10.10.2018	Senator Stabenow Statement on Senate Passage of Her Legislation Authorizing $922 Million for Soo Locks Modernization Legislation now goes to the President for his Signature Wednesday, October 10, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released a statement following Senate passage of her legislation that authorizes full funding for the modernization of the Soo Locks. Her Soo Locks Modernization Act passed the Senate as part of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. Stabenow’s bipartisan legislation authorizes Congress to provide the necessary funding to construct another Poe-size lock. Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow successfully called on the Army Corps of Engineers and the Administration to complete a critical economic analysis that accurately reflects the importance of this project to our economy and national security. “After a hard-fought effort, the Senate passed my bipartisan bill greenlighting the nearly $1 billion needed to modernize the Soo Locks. In Michigan, we know how vital the Locks are to our economy and our national defense. We also know that we are on borrowed time until something happens that shuts them down. This is a significant win that will help ensure this vital gateway for commerce and jobs stays open.”
10.03.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Extension of Essential Air Service for Eight Airports Serving Communities Across UP and Northern Michigan Wednesday, October 03, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced the five-year extension of the Essential Air Service program as part of the reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration. Funded through the U.S Department of Transportation, the program provides critical air service that connects rural and remote areas to major hubs, helping to grow area businesses and support economic growth. Eight airports in the Upper Peninsula and Northern Michigan will continue to receive Essential Air Service funding through 2023; Alpena County Regional Airport, Delta County Airport in Escabana, Houghton County Memorial Airport, Ford Airport in Kingsford, Gogebic – Iron County Airport in Ironwood, Manistee County Blacker Airport, Pellston Regional Airport and the Chippewa County International Airport in Sault Ste. Marie. “Communities across Northern Michigan and the Upper Peninsula rely on dependable air service to support local businesses and jobs,” said Senator Stabenow. “The continuation of air service will not only ensure economic growth but will benefit our families living in small towns across the region.” Enacted in 1978, the Essential Air Service program has provided commercial service to communities that would otherwise go entirely unserved. The program ensures air carriers serve over 170 communities across the country. Senator Stabenow has been a champion of the program and has continued to advocate for increased funding for it. More information on the Department of Transportation’s Essential Air Service program can be found at https://www.transportation.gov/policy/aviation-policy/small-community-rural-air-service/essential-air-service.
10.03.2018	Stabenow Announces Additional Extension of Direct Flight Service Between Lansing and DC Until October 28, 2023 Wednesday, October 03, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that the Federal Aviation Administration granted American Airlines an additional extension to continue providing direct service from Lansing’s Capital Region International Airport (LAN) to Washington, D.C.’s Reagan National Airport (DCA). “Having a direct flight from Michigan’s capital to our nation’s capital is a major boost to Mid-Michigan’s economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “Continuing this important nonstop service gives the region continued certainty and benefits Michigan State University and the FRIB, local businesses and Port Lansing’s international trade facilities.” “This is great news for our airport and those in our region,” said Wayne Sieloff, president and CEO of the Capital Region Airport Authority. “Our partnerships with air carriers like American Airlines play a critical role in our ability to assist in advancing our region. This extension of the Washington National Airport (DCA)/Capital Region International Airport (LAN) flights adds more certainty for this important route for the next 5 years.” Senator Stabenow was key in securing this flight service in 2011 and ensuring Lansing kept a direct route to Washington, D.C. In February 2018, Stabenow called on U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao to extend the slot exemption for American Airlines to continue this nonstop service and received an original extension until October 2019. Senator Stabenow continued to call on the DOT for a longer extension resulting in four additional years added on to the slot exemption. In July 2016, Senator Stabenow took part in the inaugural direct flight service on American Airlines flying from Lansing to Washington, D.C.
10.01.2018	Senators Stabenow, Peters Lead Bipartisan Great Lakes Task Force Letter Urging the Army Corps to Fund Projects Critical to the Great Lakes Monday, October 01, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force and Gary Peters, member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, as well as 10 of their colleagues last week led a bipartisan Great Lakes Task Force letter urging the Army Corps of Engineers to allocate and request funding for projects critical to the Great Lakes. In a letter to R.D. James, Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), the Senators requested funding for projects critical to stopping Asian carp, maintaining the Soo Locks and funding a new Poe-sized lock as well as funding for the Great Lakes Coastal Resilience Study. “The USACE is undertaking multiple efforts to stop Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. These actions are critical to protecting the Great Lakes ecosystem and our $7 billion recreational fishing and $16 billion boating industries,” wrote the lawmakers. “Accomplishing this objective requires funding to complete the Brandon Road Lock and Dam Chief’s Report and proceed to Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED); address multiple pathways for Asian carp to enter the Great Lakes; and ensure the electric dispersal barriers are operational.” “It is imperative that sufficient funding be provided to operate and maintain the Soo Locks,” the lawmakers continued. “In addition to the funds necessary to maintain and operate the Soo Locks, we ask that you include $74 million in the FY2019 work plan and $92 million in the FY2020 budget request to enable the USACE to begin the initial work necessary to construct a second Poe-sized lock.” “This study proposed by the USACE, in consultation with Great Lakes states, would be a first-of-its-kind effort to develop a coordinated strategy to manage and protect the Great Lakes’ and its 5,200-mile coastline from threats associated with lake level fluctuations, erosion, flooding, nutrient runoff, and aging infrastructure,” the lawmakers also wrote. “We were disappointed that last year’s budget did not request funding for the Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study. To rectify this decision, we urge the USACE to allocate $1.2 million for the study in the FY2019 work plan and include $3.6 million for it in the FY2020 budget request.” The full text of the letter may be found below. The Honorable R.D. James Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310 Dear Assistant Secretary R.D. James: As members of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force, we are writing to urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to allocate funding in the fiscal year 2019 (FY2019) work plan and request funding in FY2020 for the following projects of critical importance to the wellbeing of the Great Lakes and to our state and regional economies. Asian Carp The USACE is undertaking multiple efforts to stop Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. These actions are critical to protecting the Great Lakes ecosystem and our $7 billion recreational fishing and $16 billion boating industries. Accomplishing this objective requires funding to complete the Brandon Road Lock and Dam Chief’s Report and proceed to Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED); address multiple pathways for Asian carp to enter the Great Lakes; and ensure the electric dispersal barriers are operational. To that end, we urge the USACE to allocate a total of $23.51 million in the FY2019 work plan in the following manner: $496,000 to complete the GLRMIS-Brandon Road Study and $3.8 million for the federal portion of the funding needed to proceed to Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED) work. $310,000 for GLMRIS Program Management, the amount needed for the USACE to coordinate with stakeholders, participate in the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee, and begin work on two additional pathways – Ohio’s Little Killbuck Creek and Erie Canal – through which Asian carp could enter the Great Lakes. $18.9 million for the Electric Dispersal Barriers near Romeoville, Illinois. For the FY2020 budget, we ask that $24.2 million be requested for the following: $4.9 million for Brandon Road Preconstruction, Engineering and Design work. $315,000 for GLMRIS Program Management. $18.9 million for the Electric Dispersal Barriers near Romeoville, Illinois. Soo Locks The Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan serves as a gateway to transport nearly 80 million tons of goods and raw material that supply the region’s manufacturing, mining, and agricultural industries. The June 29, 2018, Economic Validation Study and Post Authorization Change Report for the Soo Lock project noted that “the strategic importance of the Soo Locks cannot be overstated.” And a report by the Department of Homeland Security concluded it was “hard to conceive” of a single piece of infrastructure more consequential in terms of impact to the economy from an unexpected and sustained closure. It is imperative that sufficient funding be provided to operate and maintain the Soo Locks. We thank you for allocating $57 million in the FY2018 work plan, which we understand will provide sufficient funding for major rehabilitation work at the Soo Locks for the next three years. In the FY2019 work plan, we ask that $16.6 million be included for asset renewal work that is also needed to ensure the operation of the Locks in the coming year. In addition to the funds necessary to maintain and operate the Soo Locks, we ask that you include $74 million in the FY2019 work plan and $92 million in the FY2020 budget request to enable the USACE to begin the initial work necessary to construct a second Poe-sized lock. Of the two operational locks at the Soo Locks facility, only the Poe has the necessary dimensions for the largest vessels to pass. Building a second Poe-sized lock will provide the resiliency needed to ensure this critical infrastructure remains open for commerce. Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study This study proposed by the USACE, in consultation with Great Lakes states, would be a first-of-its-kind effort to develop a coordinated strategy to manage and protect the Great Lakes and its 5,200-mile coastline from threats associated with lake level fluctuations, erosion, flooding, nutrient runoff, and aging infrastructure. The robust and diverse support this study has garnered demonstrates its merits and importance. Proponents for the study include seven Great Lakes states, three USACE Districts (Chicago, Detroit, and Buffalo), and the USACE’s Great Lakes and Ohio River Division. It also has the support of the Great Lakes Commission and several federal agencies with missions in coastal management, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the U.S. Geological Survey. We were disappointed that last year’s budget did not request funding for the Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study. To rectify this decision, we urge the USACE to allocate $1.2 million for the study in the FY2019 work plan and include $3.6 million for it in the FY2020 budget request. We thank you for considering these important requests.
09.28.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces New Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics in Lansing, Novi and Southgate Funding Made Possible by Stabenow’s Excellence in Mental Health and Addiction Act Friday, September 28, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced that three new Michigan community mental health centers have been selected as Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics. Community Network Services Inc. in Novi will receive $4 million, Guidance Center in Southgate will receive $3,311,952 and Community Mental Health Authority of Clinton, Eaton, Ingham Counties in Lansing will receive $3,784,980. Each clinic will receive this funding over the next two years to provide comprehensive behavioral health and addiction treatment services. Last week, Senator Stabenow announced the selection of the first four Michigan community mental health centers in Kalamazoo, Ludington, Muskegon, and Auburn Hill. Today’s announcement is a direct result of the passage of the Excellence in Mental Health and Addiction Act by Senator Stabenow and Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) in 2014. This law is transforming the way behavioral health and addiction treatment services are delivered across the country with the establishment of new Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics. These clinics are required to provide a comprehensive set of services including 24/7/365 crisis services; outpatient mental health and substance abuse treatment services; immediate screenings, risk assessments, and diagnoses; and care coordination including partnerships with emergency rooms, law enforcement, and veterans groups. “One in five Americans lives with some type of mental illness yet fewer than half of those individuals get the treatment they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “That’s why I’ve been committed to making sure we fund mental health treatment the same way we fund other health care. Now these Michigan clinics will have the resources they need to expand community mental health and addiction services.” “As a provider of mental health services to the community over the last 60 years, The Guidance Center is committed to expanding access to mental health and substance use disorder services throughout Wayne County,” said Kari D. Walker, President & CEO of The Guidance Center. “Our agency serves people who are uninsured or under-insured, and the enhanced ability through the designation of the CCBHC to reach beyond the 23,000 children and adults who are part of our programs every year is a critical benefit to our community. The ability to respond to people in urgent and emergent situations, including after normal business hours, will translate into more effective and immediate care that makes a difference in the lives of those we serve.” “Over the past two years we have embraced the Certified Community Behavioral Health model and within our existing financial resources, we have worked to improve outreach efforts, increase access points for 24/hour Crisis Services, and to offer comprehensive behavioral health services in the communities we serve. We are excited about the opportunity SAMHSA funding offers to enhance these efforts and to do more to fill critical service gaps in our community. The funding will be used to expand our ability to serve those who are uninsured or underinsured and in need of ongoing specialty behavioral health services to treat Serious Mental Illness, Serious Emotional Disturbance, Substance Use Disorders, and Co-Occurring Disorders,” said Sara Lurie, CEO of Community Mental Health Authority of Clinton, Eaton, Ingham Counties. “Expanding access to these types of ongoing services in partnership with other community resources is vital in meeting our vision of assisting individuals and families in seeking their desired quality of life and participating in the life of the community. We are extremely grateful to SAMHSA and to Senator Stabenow for her advocacy and legislative work to support and expand access to behavioral health services here in Michigan and across the U.S.” “We are so excited to hear about this additional CCBHC funding that’s going to allow us to expand treatment services to work with people who are uninsured, underinsured and underserved. We are looking forward to expanding our substance abuse services and our services for children and adolescents in both Wayne and Oakland counties,” said Michele Reid, M.D., Chief Medical Officer of Community Network Services Inc. “We are especially excited to work with the other CCBHC funded organizations in the state of Michigan. Our goal is to work with them all so to make sure that seamless services are available so that hopefully in 2020 when the next round of money is available there will be more funding available for the state of Michigan. We really want to thank Sen. Stabenow for her tireless work in promoting community mental health services in Michigan and to know that we really could not be here without the efforts of her and her staff. We look forward to all the Certified Community Behavioral Health Centers in Michigan working together to expand mental health and substance abuse services to Michigan citizens.” This funding comes from the Community Behavioral Health Clinic Expansion Grants program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Senator Stabenow recently secured $150 million to fund this grant program. Michigan has the most clinics of any state to receive funding through this grant program.
09.28.2018	Kildee, Stabenow, Boyle Introduce Legislation to Address Health Care Needs Of Veterans Exposed to Toxic Chemicals New Legislation Requires Department of Veterans Affairs to Cover Health Conditions Linked to Chemical Contamination at Military Bases Friday, September 28, 2018 Congressmen Dan Kildee (MI-05) and Brendan Boyle (PA-13), along with U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), today introduced two bills to ensure that veterans and their families exposed to toxic chemicals at military installations get the health care services and benefits they need through the U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA). The Veterans Exposed to Toxic PFAS Act (VET PFAS Act) would require the VA to cover treatment of certain health conditions related to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) exposure. Under this bill, illnesses associated with PFAS exposure will be considered a service-connected disability, making veterans and their families exposed to PFAS eligible for disability payments and medical treatment from the VA. The Care for Veterans Act ensures that veterans exposed to volatile organic compounds including trichloroethylene (TCE) at the former Wurtsmith Air Force Base will also receive related health and disability benefits. “We made a promise to our veterans who signed up to serve this country that we’d take care of them and their families. These bills make good on that promise by ensuring that all service members exposed to toxic chemicals as a part of their military service get the health care they need,” said Congressman Kildee. “Toxic PFAS and TCE chemicals are increasingly being found across the country and we know exposure is harmful. I am proud to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate as we fight to clean up chemical contamination at military bases and get veterans and their families the resources they have earned.” “Michigan veterans and their loved ones who were exposed to PFAS, TCE, and other toxic chemicals during their military service are living with incredible uncertainty,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our legislation will ensure that service members and their families get the health care services and benefits they need from the VA.” “Veterans and their families exposed to these chemicals as a consequence of their public service deserve the full support and attention of the federal government," said Congressman Boyle. “I am proud to work with my colleagues to confront this issue through a multipronged approach. This legislation ensures our service members and their families receive the healthcare they need and deserve. Just as the military leaves no one behind on the battlefield, we must leave no veteran behind at home.” The military historically used PFAS in firefighting foam on military bases. According to health experts, these chemicals are dangerous to human health and many veterans have been exposed as part of their military service. Moreover, around many military bases, PFAS chemicals have leached into the groundwater making the surrounding drinking water unsafe for nearby residents. The VET PFAS Act is possible because of a nationwide health study included in the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act and Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations bill secured by Congressmen Kildee and Boyle, and Senator Stabenow. Once completed, the health conditions the study shows are linked to PFAS will be required to be covered by the VA. In addition, the VET PFAS Act covers the following conditions pursuant to a previously conducted study of 68,000 people in West Virginia: high cholesterol, ulcerative colitis, thyroid disease, testicular cancer, kidney cancer and pregnancy-induced hypertension.
09.26.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $1,100,000 in Support of Fire Departments in Macomb and Oakland Counties Wednesday, September 26, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1,109,608 for fire departments in 10 communities in Macomb and Oakland Counties to improve training and upgrade technology. This regional grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. "Our firefighters in Macomb Country put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will provide critical training and give our first responders the equipment they need to better serve the public and do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “It is critical that firefighters and first responders have access to the tools and resources they need to keep their communities safe,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help ensure that first responders across Southeast Michigan are properly equipped to respond when emergencies arise.” "We are incredibly proud of the first responders who serve our community each day," said Macomb County Executive Mark A. Hackel. "These grants are a testament to the impact that they have throughout the county." “The award of this regional grant will allow our firefighter/medics to receive high quality, collaborative training opportunities while keeping these vital assets in their first response areas, which will benefit the residents with quick responses to their calls for service. The video conference system will also allow for interdisciplinary collaboration among all participating agencies, opening up opportunities for regional training and networking,” said Chris Martin, Chief of the Sterling Heights Fire Department. “The award will allow us to upgrade technology while saving the citizens of Sterling Heights a significant amount of money, while enhancing the ability to share information both within and outside the city.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.26.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for New Rose City Farmers Market Pavilion New grant made possible by rural development funding in the current Farm Bill Wednesday, September 26, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today announced new federal support to help build a permanent Farmers Market Pavilion in Rose City. “Through the support of our bipartisan farm bill and with the commitment of local leaders in communities like Rose City, farmers markets are growing across Michigan,” said Stabenow. “They serve as an economic hub for the community, and help connect families with farmers growing fresh Michigan-grown food.” The City of Rose City will receive $91,300 to finance the construction of a permanent Farmers Market Pavilion, which will provide a venue for farmers and vendors to sell their products directly to consumers. This investment comes through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Rural Business Development Grants program, which is a part of the current Farm Bill authored by Senator Stabenow. With the current Farm Bill set to expire this fall, Senator Stabenow recently introduced a new bipartisan Farm Bill, which strengthens support for rural communities in Michigan.
09.25.2018	Stabenow Applauds House Passage of Her Legislation to Eliminate Gag Clauses that Force Customers to Pay More at the Pharmacy Counter Legislation will now go to the President for his signature Tuesday, September 25, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following House passage of her bipartisan legislation to eliminate outrageous gag clauses that stop pharmacists from telling customers that they could pay less for their prescription if they pay out of pocket. Stabenow’s bipartisan Know the Lowest Price Act, which passed the Senate unanimously earlier this month, cracks down on this practice by prohibiting Medicare Part D Plans from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to provide drug price information when there is a difference between the cost of the drug under than plan and the cost of the drug when purchased without insurance. The House of Representatives also passed the Stabenow-sponsored Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act, which ends gag clauses in private insurance plans. “It’s wrong that a person overpays for their medication simply because their pharmacist is not allowed to tell them they could pay a lower price with cash instead of insurance. Thanks to a successful bipartisan effort, we’ve banned this outrageous practice once and for all. This is an important step toward lowering the skyrocketing prices of prescription drugs for Michigan families.”
09.21.2018	Stabenow, Peters Urge the Administration to Take Action to Improve Coverage of Oral and Dental Health for Seniors in Michigan Friday, September 21, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters as well as 26 of their colleagues yesterday called on the Department of Health and Human Services to take action to improve Medicare coverage of medically necessary oral and dental treatment. Providing seniors in Michigan traditional Medicare coverage for medically necessary oral and dental care will improve oral health and overall wellness as well as potentially reduce costs to the Medicare program. “We urge CMS to use existing regulatory authority, consistent with past precedent, to make available traditional Medicare coverage for those beneficiaries requiring medically necessary oral and dental care,” wrote the senators. “We look forward to working with you to save lives, improve health outcomes, and reduce Medicare costs by avoiding medical complications through delivery of medically necessary oral and dental treatment.” The text of the letter may be found below. September 20, 2018 The Honorable Alex Azar The Honorable Seema Verma Secretary Administrator U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 200 Independence Avenue SW 7500 Security Blvd. Washington, DC 20201 Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Secretary Azar and Administrator Verma: As policymakers, we have a responsibility to find health care solutions that save lives, improve outcomes and reduce costs. Given oral health’s proven connection to overall wellness, improving Medicare coverage of medically necessary oral and dental health will accomplish these objectives. Therefore, we write to request that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) use existing regulatory authority to provide traditional Medicare coverage of medically necessary oral and dental treatment. It is estimated that two thirds of all Medicare beneficiaries have periodontal disease. Unfortunately, many Medicare beneficiaries face significant health risks because they do not have access to medically necessary oral and dental treatment. Too often, the lack of such treatment is exacerbating beneficiaries’ health conditions and, thus, increasing Medicare’s costs for treating their illnesses. In such instances, providing medically necessary oral and dental treatment has the potential to reduce costs to the Medicare program by improving patient outcomes. For example, insurance companies have achieved significant medical savings by providing coverage for the treatment of periodontal disease for individuals with heart disease and diabetes. An Avalere Health report estimates that such coverage could achieve net savings for the traditional Medicare program of $63.5 billion over ten years. As you know, Section 1862(a)(12) of the Social Security Act excludes Medicare coverage of routine dental services. However, that provision does not prohibit the CMS from authorizing coverage when the treatment is medically necessary. In crafting the list of Medicare coverage exclusions, Congress’ intent was to ensure Medicare funds would not be used pay for items and services that beneficiaries utilize outside of the context of medical illness and injury – in other words, items and services that are not medically necessary. Indeed, Senate Report No. 89-404 (1965) expressly provides that payment can be made when there is appropriate medical justification, such as when the item or service is necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of a Medicare-covered disease, illness, or injury. There is ample precedent for CMS’ use of this discretionary authority. For example, Medicare policy provides for the coverage of medically necessary podiatry services, even as routine foot care is expressly excluded from coverage by the Medicare statute. In similar fashion, we believe CMS should use its authority to extend traditional Medicare coverage to oral and dental treatment that is medically necessary for the treatment of Medicare-covered diseases, illnesses, and injuries. Below are a few representative examples that illustrate the clinical and fiscal utility of such coverage: Emergency department visits and hospitalizations for medical problems in which oral/dental bacteria are an underlying cause, such as an infected cardiac or orthopedic prosthesis. Parkinson’s Disease, in which dentally sourced bacteria can contribute to aspiration pneumonia, and/or infection of medical devices, such as deep brain neurostimulators and artificial knees and hips. Bacterial endocarditis and worsened stroke outcomes due to an increased inflammatory burden caused by unresolved dental infections. Multiple sclerosis, in which oral/dental bacteria can cause serious infection for patients taking pharmaceuticals that suppress the immune system, such disease-modifying therapeutic drugs. Delay or interruption of treatment for various gastrointestinal diseases, including certain liver and inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) due to untreated oral/dental disease. Rheumatologic disease, for which patients must often take medication that suppress their immune systems, thereby making them more susceptible to infection from untreated oral/dental disease. Diabetes management compromised by periodontal infections, which increases the risk of kidney disease and failure, vascular dementia, visual degradation, podiatric complications, cardiac disease and stroke. Arthroplasty of the hip and knee, which cannot safely proceed without prior resolution of oral/dental disease because of the risk of post-operative infection. Cancer treatment, in which leukopenia from chemotherapy increases the risk of dentally sourced bacteria causing sepsis or other serious complications. Organ transplantation, for which dental infections risk serious complications because patients are pharmacologically immunosuppressed to prevent rejection. Metastatic lung, breast, prostate and colon cancers, multiple myeloma, and hypercalcemia, which often involve bisphosphonate drugs, for which dental health is advised to prevent osteonecrosis of the jaw. Implanted heart valves, arterial stents, and stent grafts, which are at risk of infection and costly complications due to bacteria sourced from dental infections. For these reasons, we urge CMS to use existing regulatory authority, consistent with past precedent, to make available traditional Medicare coverage for those beneficiaries requiring medically necessary oral and dental care. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to working with you to save lives, improve health outcomes, and reduce Medicare costs by avoiding medical complications through delivery of medically necessary oral and dental treatment.
09.20.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Selection of Michigan’s First Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics Announcement Made Possible by Stabenow’s Excellence in Mental Health and Addiction Act Thursday, September 20, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced that four Michigan community mental health centers have been selected as the state’s first-ever Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics. The four clinics are Kalamazoo Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services, Easter Seals Michigan Inc. in Auburn Hills, West Michigan Community Mental Health System in Ludington and Muskegon HealthWest. Each clinic will receive $4 million in funding over the next two years to provide comprehensive behavioral health and addiction treatment services. Today’s announcement is a direct result of the passage of the Excellence in Mental Health and Addiction Act by Senator Stabenow and Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) in 2014. This law is transforming the way behavioral health and addiction treatment services are delivered across the country with the establishment of new Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics. These clinics are required to provide a comprehensive set of services including 24/7/365 crisis services; outpatient mental health and substance abuse treatment services; immediate screenings, risk assessments, and diagnoses; and care coordination including partnerships with emergency rooms, law enforcement, and veterans groups. “One in five Americans lives with some type of mental illness yet fewer than half of those individuals get the treatment they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “That’s why I’ve been committed to making sure we fund mental health treatment the same way we fund other health care. Now these Michigan clinics will have the resources they need to expand community mental health and addiction services.” “We are very excited that KCMHSAS is one of 25 sites selected in the nation to receive this grant award,” said Jeff Patton, CEO of Kalamazoo Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services. “SAMHSA expects that CCBHCs will improve the behavioral health of individuals across the nation by providing comprehensive community-based mental health and substance use disorder services; treating co-occurring disorders; advancing the integration of behavioral health and physical health care; assimilating and utilizing evidence-based practices on a more consistent basis and promoting improved access to high quality care. The grant awarded to KCMHSAS will further move our organization towards the future in becoming a federally recognized Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinic.” “I have worked with the Kalamazoo Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse Service in order to work towards individuals with mental illness who need treatment and services receive them rather than end up in the county jail or judicial system,” said Sheriff Richard Fuller, Kalamazoo County Sheriff. “Expanding community mental health services, including 24 hour crisis service, will ensure these individuals get the help they need.” “This grant award is an exciting opportunity for our West Michigan CMH team to continue to improve access to behavioral health services and support in our three rural counties,” said Lisa Williams, Executive Director of the West Michigan Community Mental Health System. “We believe that strong partnerships with the people and communities we serve have the potential to make a difference in people’s lives forever. We are grateful for our partnership with Senator Stabenow and her leadership in the effort to improve mental health systems in Michigan.” “Two years ago we began to expand and enhance our services in order to meet the criteria for CCBHC, we moved forward because it is the right model and results in better outcomes,” said Julia Rupp, CEO of HealthWest. “We were able to get the momentum going with the help of other time limited grants. These 2 million dollars will give us the opportunity to continue these efforts, expanding number of people served through improved access and earlier interventions.” “The impact of this grant is priceless, as it affords us the ability to provide services that we only dreamed of but did not have the funding. We will amplify our service delivery, increase our workforce, improve our outreach, and enhance technology, all to better meet the needs of those living in Oakland County and the surrounding area,” said Brent Wirth, President and CEO of Easterseals. “We anticipate serving 1,545 new individuals and substantially expanding services to an additional 3,100, nearly 50% of the over 7,000 people we are serving today.” This funding comes from the Community Behavioral Health Clinic Expansion Grants program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Senator Stabenow recently secured $150 million to fund this grant program. Michigan has the most clinics of any state to receive funding through this grant program.
09.11.2018	In Grand Rapids, Senator Stabenow Releases New “Buy American” Report First-of-its-kind report part of her Buy American Agenda Tuesday, September 11, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released her “Buy American” Report, during an event at Plasan North America in Grand Rapids. Her report reveals that federal agencies used loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws to issue over $92 billion in contracts to foreign companies between 2008-2016. For example, the Department of Defense has awarded the most contracts to foreign companies—$154 billion during this time period. More than half of the Defense Department’s foreign spending was due to Buy American loopholes. These are contracts that could have gone to companies creating jobs and manufacturing here in Michigan or in other states. Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American agenda to ensure American tax dollars are being spent on products made in America. “Our American workers and manufacturers are the best in the world and should come first when it comes to government contracts and spending,” said Senator Stabenow. “My report shows that foreign companies are benefitting from loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws. My agenda closes these loopholes, holds the federal government accountable, and creates opportunities for Michigan businesses and workers.” Plasan North America (PNA) specializes in customer defined, build to print armor and metal fabrication. The company is Michigan based, with a 350,000 sq. ft manufacturing campus located in Grand Rapids. They utilize a wide range of metal and composite manufacturing equipment and processes to provide build to print manufacturing solutions. For more information, visit www.plasan-na.com. “We are very excited to host Senator Stabenow for the release of her Buy American report. Our company strategically established our headquarters and manufacturing operations in Michigan to be close to our customers and to capitalize on the expertise and talent that Michigan is known for,” said Adrienne Stevens, President of Plasan North America & Plasan Carbon Composites. “We fully support her legislation that will help Michigan manufacturers create jobs.” “Thanks to you, Senator Stabenow, for addressing concerns about U.S. government contracts awarded to foreign businesses for work that could have been performed by companies right here in the United States,” said Jan Campbell, SW Michigan Procurement Technical Assistance Center. “Senator Stabenow has been a strong champion for manufacturing in the state of Michigan and across the United States,” said Mike Coast, President of the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center. “Her support of the Make It In America Act is another example of her unwavering commitment and determination to keep manufacturing work here in Michigan along with all of the jobs that go with it.” Stabenow’s first-of-its-kind Buy American report analyzed previously unreleased data on foreign purchases made by 17 federal agencies. The report highlighted loopholes in our Buy American Act, which was passed in 1933 to ensure that federal agencies purchase products that are manufactured in the United States. Stabenow’s report found that billions of dollars in taxpayer money are going to companies in countries like Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, South Korea, and Japan, among others. This money could be supporting Michigan manufacturers and workers, especially in key sectors that represent some of the strongest drivers of Michigan’s economy, including vehicle manufacturing, aerospace, electronics, and furniture. Senator Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American Agenda to strengthen our nation’s Buy American laws. That includes her Make It In America Act (S.908), which closes loopholes, prioritizes American firms, eliminates exemptions, and demands higher transparency in foreign contracting. It also requires agencies to submit an annual report to Congress on the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on foreign made goods. In addition, Stabenow’s agenda includes her Made In America Act of 2018 (S.2865), which adds new Buy America requirements to 16 federal programs that provide $10 billion in federal funding or financial assistance to infrastructure projects.
09.11.2018	In Lansing, Senator Stabenow Releases New “Buy American” Report First-of-its-kind report part of her Buy American Agenda Tuesday, September 11, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released her “Buy American” Report, during an event at Loc Performance in Lansing. Her report reveals that federal agencies used loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws to issue over $92 billion in contracts to foreign companies between 2008-2016. For example, the Department of Defense has awarded the most contracts to foreign companies—$154 billion during this time period. More than half of the Defense Department’s foreign spending was due to Buy American loopholes. These are contracts that could have gone to companies creating jobs and manufacturing here in Michigan or in other states. Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American agenda to ensure American tax dollars are being spent on products made in America. “Our American workers and manufacturers are the best in the world and should come first when it comes to government contracts and spending,” said Senator Stabenow. “My report shows that foreign companies are benefitting from loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws. My agenda closes these loopholes, holds the federal government accountable, and creates opportunities for Michigan businesses and workers.” Loc Performance Products is a premier full-service manufacturer of large CNC machined components, fabricated structures, and assemblies for military and industrial applications. Loc recently announced the award of a $475M contract by the U.S. Government for the manufacture of an armored assembly for the Army’s Multiple Launch Rocket System. Under the contract, Loc will provide a newly constructed armored cab, upgrading the entire cab design to better protect crew members. In support of this award, and continued strong growth, Loc Performance is hosting a job fair at its Lansing facility on September 12th. For more information, visit www.locperformance.com. “Having an opportunity to compete is all we ever ask for at Loc Performance,” said Lou Burr, CEO of Loc Performance. “Closing these loopholes and spending that money at home could create more than 40,000 jobs domestically. And it would strengthen our economy and nation in the process.” “The playing field to make things in America as well as here in Lansing, Michigan has become uneven, over the decades, when competing for federal contracts against foreign companies,” said Bob Trezise, President and CEO of the Lansing Economic Area Partnership. “That’s not right. Made in America Act 2018 will restore fair competition to our manufacturing companies, helping us create jobs right here in Lansing, Michigan USA.” “Senator Stabenow has been a strong champion for manufacturing in the state of Michigan and across the United States,” said Mike Coast, President of the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center. “Her support of the Make It In America Act is another example of her unwavering commitment and determination to keep manufacturing work here in Michigan along with all of the jobs that go with it.” Stabenow’s first-of-its-kind Buy American report analyzed previously unreleased data on foreign purchases made by 17 federal agencies. The report highlighted loopholes in our Buy American Act, which was passed in 1933 to ensure that federal agencies purchase products that are manufactured in the United States. Stabenow’s report found that billions of dollars in taxpayer money are going to companies in countries like Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, South Korea, and Japan, among others. This money could be supporting Michigan manufacturers and workers, especially in key sectors that represent some of the strongest drivers of Michigan’s economy, including vehicle manufacturing, aerospace, electronics, and furniture. Senator Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American Agenda to strengthen our nation’s Buy American laws. That includes her Make It In America Act (S.908), which closes loopholes, prioritizes American firms, eliminates exemptions, and demands higher transparency in foreign contracting. It also requires agencies to submit an annual report to Congress on the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on foreign made goods. In addition, Stabenow’s agenda includes her Made In America Act of 2018 (S.2865), which adds new Buy America requirements to 16 federal programs that provide $10 billion in federal funding or financial assistance to infrastructure projects.
09.10.2018	In Plymouth, Senator Stabenow Releases New “Buy American” Report First-of-its-kind report part of her Buy American Agenda Monday, September 10, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released her “Buy American” Report, during an event at Loc Performance in Plymouth. Her report reveals that federal agencies used loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws to issue over $92 billion in contracts to foreign companies between 2008-2016. For example, the Department of Defense has awarded the most contracts to foreign companies—$154 billion during this time period. More than half of the Defense Department’s foreign spending was due to Buy American loopholes. These are contracts that could have gone to companies creating jobs and manufacturing here in Michigan or in other states. Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American agenda to ensure American tax dollars are being spent on products made in America. “Our American workers and manufacturers are the best in the world and should come first when it comes to government contracts and spending,” said Senator Stabenow. “My report shows that foreign companies are benefitting from loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws. My agenda closes these loopholes, holds the federal government accountable, and creates opportunities for Michigan businesses and workers.” Loc Performance Products is a premier full-service manufacturer of large CNC machined components, fabricated structures, and assemblies for military and industrial applications. Loc recently announced the award of a $475M contract by the U.S. Government for the manufacture of an armored assembly for the Army’s Multiple Launch Rocket System. Under the contract, Loc will provide a newly constructed armored cab, upgrading the entire cab design to better protect crew members. In support of this award, and continued strong growth, Loc Performance is hosting a job fair at its Lansing facility on September 12th. For more information, visit www.locperformance.com. “Having an opportunity to compete is all we ever ask for at Loc Performance,” said Lou Burr, CEO of Loc Performance. “Closing these loopholes and spending that money at home could create more than 40,000 jobs domestically. And it would strengthen our economy and nation in the process.” “As a manufacturer of American-made battery systems for electric buses, vessels and stationary power, XALT Energy supports Senator Stabenow’s efforts to provide fairness in trade and strengthen our Buy American laws and standards,” said Richard Cundiff, President and CEO of XALT Energy. “When we found a Chinese bus and battery manufacturer skirting Buy America standards, she went to bat for us and got the Department of Transportation to launch an investigation.” “Senator Stabenow has been a strong champion for manufacturing in the state of Michigan and across the United States,” said Mike Coast, President of the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center. “Her support of the Make It In America Act is another example of her unwavering commitment and determination to keep manufacturing work here in Michigan along with all of the jobs that go with it.” Stabenow’s first-of-its-kind Buy American report analyzed previously unreleased data on foreign purchases made by 17 federal agencies. The report highlighted loopholes in our Buy American Act, which was passed in 1933 to ensure that federal agencies purchase products that are manufactured in the United States. Stabenow’s report found that billions of dollars in taxpayer money are going to companies in countries like Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, South Korea, and Japan, among others. This money could be supporting Michigan manufacturers and workers, especially in key sectors that represent some of the strongest drivers of Michigan’s economy, including vehicle manufacturing, aerospace, electronics, and furniture. Senator Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American Agenda to strengthen our nation’s Buy American laws. That includes her Make It In America Act (S.908), which closes loopholes, prioritizes American firms, eliminates exemptions, and demands higher transparency in foreign contracting. It also requires agencies to submit an annual report to Congress on the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on foreign made goods. In addition, Stabenow’s agenda includes her Made In America Act of 2018 (S.2865), which adds new Buy America requirements to 16 federal programs that provide $10 billion in federal funding or financial assistance to infrastructure projects.
09.10.2018	In Bridgeport, Senator Stabenow Releases New “Buy American” Report First-of-its-kind report part of her Buy American Agenda Monday, September 10, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released her “Buy American” Report, during an event at Cignys in Bridgeport. Her report reveals that federal agencies used loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws to issue over $92 billion in contracts to foreign companies between 2008-2016. For example, the Department of Defense has awarded the most contracts to foreign companies—$154 billion during this time period. More than half of the Defense Department’s foreign spending was due to Buy American loopholes. These are contracts that could have gone to companies creating jobs and manufacturing here in Michigan or in other states. Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American agenda to ensure American tax dollars are being spent on products made in America. “Our American workers and manufacturers are the best in the world and should come first when it comes to government contracts and spending,” said Senator Stabenow. “My report shows that foreign companies are benefitting from loopholes in our nation’s Buy American laws. My agenda closes these loopholes, holds the federal government accountable, and creates opportunities for Michigan businesses and workers.” Founded in 1919, Cignys provides high-end machining, fabricating, paint and assembly operations for the defense, aerospace and automotive industries. It has locations in Saginaw, Bridgeport and Thomas Township. Cignys recently announced a $6 million capital expansion to support the defense and aerospace markets, and create 50 new jobs. “Cignys supports customers in the defense, aerospace, and automotive industries, many of which contract with the federal government,” said Jim Kendall, President and CEO of Cignys. “We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s visit to highlight efforts that will lead to more taxpayer dollars being spent in Michigan for American-made products.” “Many companies in Saginaw County and the Great Lakes Bay Region could benefit from a strong Buy American law”, said JoAnn Crary, President of Saginaw Future Inc. “It’s certainly frustrating when foreign companies are awarded contracts over our own manufacturers who provide superior quality, delivery, productivity and service.” “Senator Stabenow has been a strong champion for manufacturing in the state of Michigan and across the United States,” said Mike Coast, President of the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center. “Her support of the Make It In America Act is another example of her unwavering commitment and determination to keep manufacturing work here in Michigan along with all of the jobs that go with it.” Stabenow’s first-of-its-kind Buy American report analyzed previously unreleased data on foreign purchases made by 17 federal agencies. The report highlighted loopholes in our Buy American Act, which was passed in 1933 to ensure that federal agencies purchase products that are manufactured in the United States. Stabenow’s report found that billions of dollars in taxpayer money are going to companies in countries like Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, South Korea, and Japan, among others. This money could be supporting Michigan manufacturers and workers, especially in key sectors that represent some of the strongest drivers of Michigan’s economy, including vehicle manufacturing, aerospace, electronics, and furniture. Senator Stabenow’s report is part of her Buy American Agenda to strengthen our nation’s Buy American laws. That includes her Make It In America Act (S.908), which closes loopholes, prioritizes American firms, eliminates exemptions, and demands higher transparency in foreign contracting. It also requires agencies to submit an annual report to Congress on the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on foreign made goods. In addition, Stabenow’s agenda includes her Made In America Act of 2018 (S.2865), which adds new Buy America requirements to 16 federal programs that provide $10 billion in federal funding or financial assistance to infrastructure projects.
09.10.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce $104,500 for City of Manistee Fire Department Monday, September 10, 2018 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the City of Manistee Fire Department will receive $104,500 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program to secure safety equipment, including a heart monitor and hydraulic rescue tools. This grant is provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. "Our firefighters in Manistee put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help keep the public safe and give our first responders the equipment they need to do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Manistee’s firefighters put their lives on the line to protect their neighbors’ families, homes, and businesses,” said Senator Gary Peters. “Thanks to this funding, these fire responders will be better equipped to do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “The Manistee City Fire Department is the longest continuously staffed full time fire department. We are sensitive to the fact that we provide advanced life support and fire response within budgetary limits,” said Timothy E. Kozal, Director of Public Safety, Manistee Police Department. “The AFG grant opens opportunities to equip us with essential tools to provide exemplary customer service to the citizens of Manistee. Fulfilling deficiencies in current inventory with state of the art extrication equipment and heart monitors will allow us to continue to mitigate critical EMS and fire events timely and professionally.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has bolstered public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This equipment is essential to ensuring the safety of firefighters as they respond to emergencies and protect our communities. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.07.2018	Stabenow, Peters Call on Administration to Support Strong Currency Language in U.S. –South Korea Free Trade Agreement Friday, September 07, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today called on the Administration to support strong enforceable currency provisions in the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) negotiations, and to provide them with the details of what was included as part of the final deal reached last March. The Senators’ letter follows updates to the KORUS agreement that were sent to Congress earlier this week but did not include any information about the currency language. “We remain concerned about South Korea’s history of intervening in its currency markets and its recent actions. These concerns were acknowledged by Ambassador Lighthizer during testimony to the Senate Finance Committee in March of this year,” wrote the lawmakers. “In addition, in April, the U.S. Department of Treasury included South Korea on its monitoring list for additional scrutiny in its foreign exchange report because it continues to engage in concerning interventions in its currency markets.” “The President vowed to take an aggressive approach on currency issues,” the lawmakers continued. “You both have reiterated your support for negotiating enforceable currency measures as part of U.S. free trade agreements. American workers continue to suffer when foreign competitors manipulate their currency to gain a competitive advantage. The full text of the letter may be found below. September 7, 2018 Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Ambassador Lighthizer: We are writing to reiterate our strong support for enforceable currency measures to be a priority for this Administration and to request additional information about currency-related language within the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) negotiations. An agreement that would prevent currency manipulation and includes strong enforcement mechanisms would send a strong message to countries that have manipulated their currencies, and would serve as a positive step toward the inclusion of similar measures in future trade agreements. In March, the United States announced updates to KORUS, and on Monday, September 3 those amendments were transmitted to Congress. What was not included was any language or update related to the currency agreement that was also announced as part of the final deal reached in March. Specifically, at that time, the White House issued a statement reporting that “the Treasury Department is finalizing an understanding with South Korea to avoid practices that provide an unfair competitive advantage” and that “[t]he provisions of the understanding include strong commitments on exchange rate practices, robust transparency and reporting, and a mechanism for accountability.” We request that you confirm the existence of this understanding, provide an estimated date on when Congress can expect to see agreed text reflecting the understanding, and an overview of the “mechanism for accountability” it contains. We remain concerned about South Korea’s history of intervening in its currency markets and its recent actions. These concerns were acknowledged by Ambassador Lighthizer during testimony to the Senate Finance Committee in March of this year. In addition, in April, the U.S. Department of Treasury included South Korea on its monitoring list for additional scrutiny in its foreign exchange report because it continues to engage in concerning interventions in its currency markets. The President vowed to take an aggressive approach on currency issues. You both have reiterated your support for negotiating enforceable currency measures as part of U.S. free trade agreements. American workers continue to suffer when foreign competitors manipulate their currency to gain a competitive advantage. Thank you for your consideration of our requests for information. We look forward to continuing to work with you on this important issue.
09.07.2018	Senate Unanimously Passes Bipartisan Stabenow Bill to Crack Down on Gag Clauses that Force Customers to Pay More at the Pharmacy Counter Legislation now heads to the House of Representatives for consideration Friday, September 07, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), today announced that the Senate unanimously passed her bill, the Know the Lowest Price Act (S. 2553). This bipartisan bill cracks down on outrageous gag clauses that stop pharmacists from telling customers that they could pay less for their prescription if they pay out of pocket. Senator Stabenow’s legislation is part of her plan to lower the prices of prescription drugs for Michigan families. U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), John Barrasso (R-WY), Rand Paul (R-KY), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Dean Heller (R-NV), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Deb Fischer (R-NE), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) are also co-sponsors of the legislation. “It’s wrong that a person overpays for their medication simply because their pharmacist is not allowed to tell them they could pay a lower price with cash instead of insurance,” said Senator Stabenow. “My bill bans this outrageous practice and takes an important step toward lowering the skyrocketing prices of prescription drugs.” "Michigan pharmacists are active members of the community and are committed to providing quality care to our patients and their families," said Larry Wagenknecht, CEO of the Michigan Pharmacists Association. "With passage of Senator Stabenow's Know the Lowest Price Act, pharmacists will be able to help their patients pay less for the prescriptions they need." Many customers have no idea that they could pay less for their prescription if they pay out of pocket rather than using their insurance at the pharmacy counter. That’s because many pharmacists are prohibited from telling their customers that a prescription to treat diabetes or high blood pressure may cost only $8 out of pocket instead of $20 through insurance coverage. One 2018 report found that customers overpaid for prescription drugs at the pharmacy counter 23% of the time. And many pharmacists are frustrated that they can’t help their customers save money. The Know the Lowest Price Act cracks down on this practice by prohibiting Medicare Part D Plans from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to provide drug price information when there is a difference between the cost of the drug under the plan and the cost of the drug when purchased without insurance.
09.06.2018	Senator Stabenow Visits Small Businesses in Owosso and Chesaning Thursday, September 06, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Owosso and Chesaning as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow visited with business owners at The Armory in Owosso before continuing on to Ed Rehmann & Sons Clothing, Ace Hardware, Pintown Pizza & Lanes as well as Creative Passions Retreat Center in Chesaning. Stabenow’s tour has included over 160 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston, Roseville, Montague, Whitehall, Berrien Springs, Dearborn, Cheboygan, Pentwater, Mason, Owosso and Chesaning. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Owosso and Chesaning are no exception.” "We're humbled that Senator Stabenow continues to see firsthand how small businesses are succeeding in Michigan," said Rob Rehmann, Co-Owner of Ed Rehmann and Sons. "For 99 years and counting we have focused on quality, service and dependability and we take pride in knowing our public officials are listening to the realities of our family-owned store."
09.05.2018	Stabenow Co-Leads Conference Committee Meeting to Develop a Final Bipartisan Farm Bill After the Senate passed the Roberts-Stabenow bipartisan Farm Bill 86-11, conference committee convenes Senate and House members to complete a final bill that will provide certainty for Michigan’s farmers, families, and rural communities Wednesday, September 05, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today joined Senators and Representatives from both parties at the first conference committee meeting to develop a final bipartisan Farm Bill. The meeting brings the conference committee one step closer to finalizing a five-year Farm Bill that will create jobs and provide certainty for Michigan’s agricultural economy. “In Michigan, agriculture supports one in four jobs. I hear from our farmers and agricultural businesses that now more than ever they need the certainty of a five-year Farm Bill,” Stabenow said. “Today’s conference committee meeting shows that through hard-work and perseverance, bipartisanship is still possible.” You can watch the Farm Bill Conference Committee Meeting live here. Serving as Chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee in 2014, Stabenow authored the current Farm Bill, which is set to expire in September 30, 2018. Stabenow co-authored the new bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill with Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) The bill passed the U.S. Senate on June 29, 2018 on a strong bipartisan vote of 86-11 – the most votes a Senate Farm Bill has ever received. Stabenow’s 2018 Senate Farm Bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies and providing healthy food for families. Because the House and Senate passed different versions of the Farm Bill this year, the conference committee was formed to craft a final version. The Farm Bill Conference Committee is composed of 56 members, including nine Senators and 47 Representatives. As Ranking Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Stabenow serves as one of the four leaders of the conference committee. Once the conference committee agrees to a final bill, it will then go to both the House and a Senate for a vote, and if passed will go to the president for his signature. For a summary of the 2018 bipartisan Senate Farm Bill, click here. For a summary of statements from Michigan agricultural leaders praising the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, click here.
08.31.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce New Legislation to Stop Expansion of Health Care Plans without Protections for Pre-Existing Conditions Friday, August 31, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced new legislation to overturn the expansion of health insurance plans that do not protect people with pre-existing conditions. The new legislation is cosponsored by 30 Senators and would rescind the Trump Administration’s rule expanding short-term or “junk insurance” plans that do not have to provide health coverage for people with pre-existing conditions or other essential services such as maternity care and mental health coverage. More than half of people in Michigan have a pre-existing condition. “It’s important that families understand that Republican efforts are still underway in Washington to undermine and take away their health care,” said Senator Stabenow. “For the half of Michigan residents who have a pre-existing condition like diabetes or heart disease, gutting insurance coverage with these junk plans can have life or death consequences.” “The Trump Administration’s actions will price people out of the insurance market and force too many hardworking American families to make impossible choices between paying to see a doctor when they are sick or paying their bills,” said Senator Peters. “The Senate should pass this legislation to fight back against President Trump’s latest attempt to weaken health care coverage and increase insurance costs for those who need it the most, including seniors and people with pre-existing conditions.” Stabenow and Peters previously called on the Administration to halt the expansion of these short-term health care plans ahead of the deadline for public comment in April 2018 and after the Administration received thousands of critical comments on the plan. Congressional Review Act disapproval resolutions allow Congress to overturn regulatory actions taken by federal agencies with a simple majority vote in both chambers. They must obtain the support of 30 Senators on a discharge petition and 218 members in the House. Text of the resolution is available here.
08.29.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $100,000 in Support of the Redford Township Fire Department Wednesday, August 29, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $137,991 for the Redford Township Fire Department to purchase three new hydraulic stretchers and power loading systems. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. "Our firefighters in Redford Township put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help keep the public safe and give our first responders the equipment they need to do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Firefighters and first responders stand ready to act at a moment’s notice to keep our communities safe when disaster strikes,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will ensure that the men and women of Redford Township Fire Department are better equipped to do their jobs safely and efficiently.” “This grant will be used to purchase 3 new hydraulic stretchers and power loading systems for our rescue trucks. These new stretchers will help with patient safety and reduce the risk of lifting injuries to our firefighters,” said Scott Demoff, Chief of the Redford Township Fire Department. “These resources will help us to continue to provide the best service possible to our residents and surrounding communities.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.29.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $4 Million for the Capital Region International Airport Wednesday, August 29, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Capital Region International Airport will receive $4,935,550 to expand the airport’s pavement for aircraft parking and loading and unloading of cargo. This funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Airport Improvement Program. “This investment will make traveling to and from the Capital Region International Airport safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “The Capital Region International Airport is vital to connecting residents of the Greater Lansing area to business and travel opportunities around the world,” said Senator Peters. “This grant will ensure that the airport can continue to provide safe, quality air travel to the community.” “These federal funds will greatly assist in the construction of additional aircraft pavement at Lansing’s Capital Region International Airport,” said Wayne Sieloff, President and CEO of the Capital Region Airport Authority. “The new pavement is critical to meeting the growing demands in moving air cargo into and out of mid-Michigan.” The FAA’s Airport Improvement Program provides more than $3 billion in annual funding for projects that are needed to maintain the safety, security, capacity, and efficiency of the nation’s airports. More than 3,300 airports are eligible for AIP grants benefiting commercial passengers, cargo operations, and general aviation activities throughout the nation. More information about the Airport Improvement Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/aip/overview/.
08.25.2018	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Senator John McCain Saturday, August 25, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow released the following statement on the passing of U.S. Senator John McCain: “John McCain was a true American hero. He served our country bravely on the battlefield and in public service. His independent spirit and his dedication to doing what is right will be greatly missed. My prayers are with Cindy and the McCain family during this very difficult time.”
08.24.2018	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $1.5 Million for the Blue Water Transportation Commission Funding Will Provide Two New Electric Zero-Emission Buses Friday, August 24, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Blue Water Transportation Commission will receive $1,500,000 to purchase two new electric zero-emission transit buses and provide the necessary infrastructure upgrade to recharge the buses. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration. "These new buses are a win-win for our community,” said Senator Stabenow. "Many families will have a safe and dependable way to get to work, school or the doctor's office and we’re protecting our air quality at the same time." “I applaud this funding that will not only provide safe, reliable transportation for families in the Blue Water region, but it will help protect public health with improved air quality,” said Senator Peters. "We are excited to continue being at the fore-front of transit technology and reducing emissions. It’s great to see funding come through to purchase two buses, plus the necessary infrastructure upgrades for recharging the buses," said Dave Frasier, Director of Procurement for Blue Water Transit. "This grant allows us to continue to improve the air quality in St. Clair County and serve our community in a safe and efficient manner."
08.24.2018	Stabenow, Rounds, Peters Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Require Nationwide Testing for PFAS Contamination Friday, August 24, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced bipartisan legislation to address contamination from chemicals containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). The PFAS Detection Act (S.3382) provides the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) with $45 million to develop new advanced technologies to detect PFAS and then requires USGS to conduct nationwide sampling for PFAS in the environment. “People across Michigan exposed to PFAS-contaminated water and soil are living with incredible uncertainty about the impact of these chemicals on the health and wellbeing of their families,” said Senator Stabenow. “There is so much we do not know, and it is imperative that we get answers soon.” “PFAS chemicals can be found in manufactured goods such as commercial household products and food packaging and have even been detected in drinking water and soil samples, in some cases,” said Senator Rounds. “Our bill authorizes funding to learn more about the extent of PFAS contamination nationwide so we can protect ourselves and our families from any negative health effects they may cause.” “With so many new reports of PFAS exposure, it’s important to get an accurate picture of the extent of contamination in order to help communities that have been impacted by these harmful chemicals,” said Senator Peters. “Our families, servicemembers, and veterans deserve to know how exposure to PFAS will affect their lives moving forward, and it’s crucial that we get more information.” There is evidence that exposure to PFAS chemicals has public health and environmental impacts. However, much more needs to be known about these chemicals, including toxicity, prevalence, and exposure levels. There are more than 3,000 chemicals containing PFAS but less than 30 of these substances can be detected using current technology. The data collected by the USGS could be used to better assess the likely health and environmental impacts of exposure to PFAS chemicals and determine how to address contamination moving forward.
08.24.2018	Stabenow, Rubio, Peters Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Hold Federal Agencies Accountable for Addressing PFAS Contamination at Military Bases Across the Country Friday, August 24, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced bipartisan legislation to hold federal agencies accountable for addressing contamination from per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) at military bases across the country. The PFAS Accountability Act (S. 3381) sets clear deadlines and reporting requirements for cleaning up PFAS contamination at all federal facilities across the country, including active and decommissioned military bases, and mandates greater transparency. “The last thing that Michigan families who were exposed to PFAS-contaminated water and soil need is finger pointing from our federal agencies,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our legislation will bring quicker relief for some families by holding the Department of Defense and all federal agencies more accountable.” “With the new information we are learning about these chemicals, federal agencies who may have inadvertently contributed to contamination issues should be partners in working to limit neighboring communities’ potential exposure to PFAS compounds,” Senator Rubio said. “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the PFAS Accountability Act to ensure that federal agencies have the ability to constructively engage with states to protect our drinking water, soils, and wetlands.” “Families across Michigan are being exposed to PFAS-contaminated water and soil, and the federal agencies that caused the problem should be working aggressively to fix it,” said Senator Peters. “Communities affected by this contamination need government accountability now more than ever, and this legislation urges the Department of Defense and other agencies to take responsibility for cleanup.” Earlier this year, the Senators secured funding to investigate and clean up contamination at active and decommissioned military bases. However, in order for much of the federal money to be used to address PFAS contamination, federal agencies, including the Department of Defense, must enter into cooperative agreements with states. The PFAS Accountability Act calls for federal facilities, including military installations, to expedite cooperative agreements with states to address PFAS contamination. These agreements commit the federal government to take specific actions and enable states and local communities to be reimbursed for costs incurred to address PFAS contamination. If a cooperative agreement is not reached within a year after a state requests one, the Department of Defense must send a report to Congress explaining the reason for the delay and a projected timeline for completing the agreement.
08.23.2018	Senate Passes Stabenow, Peters Resolution Honoring Aretha Franklin Thursday, August 23, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced Senate passage of a resolution they introduced celebrating the life and legacy of singer Aretha Franklin. Franklin moved to Detroit as a young girl and began her singing career at the New Bethel Baptist Church in Detroit. Stabenow and Peters were joined by a bipartisan group of 36 cosponsors. “Aretha Franklin’s voice and soul were truly larger than life,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today, we celebrate her legacy and recognize her contributions to the arts, civil rights and the City of Detroit. She will never be forgotten.” “Aretha Franklin broke barriers with her once in a generation singing voice, but also her fierce advocacy for civil rights and women’s rights,” said Senator Peters. “Aretha was a Detroit icon, whose voice and spirit symbolize the city’s strength and resilience, and there is perhaps nowhere she will be missed more. Her life’s work will continue to inspire artists and activists for generations to come, and I am proud to join my colleagues in honoring the life and legacy of Aretha Franklin.” The full list of bipartisan cosponsors includes Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ), Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), Senator Chris Coons (D-DE), Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), Senator Catherine Cortez-Masto (D-NV), Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA), Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Senator Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Senator Doug Jones (D-AL), Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA), Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV), Senator Edward Markey (D-MA), Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Senator Tim Scott (R-SC), Senator Tina Smith (D-MN), Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). Text of the Resolution follows: Title: Honoring the life and legacy of Aretha Franklin and the contributions of Aretha Franklin to music, civil rights, and the city of Detroit. Whereas Aretha Franklin was born on March 25, 1942, in Memphis, Tennessee; Whereas Aretha Franklin moved to Detroit, Michigan, in 1946, at the age of 4; Whereas Aretha Franklin began a career singing gospel at the New Bethel Baptist Church in Detroit, Michigan; Whereas Aretha Franklin traveled with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., across the country as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., preached nonviolence in the movement for civil rights; Whereas Aretha Franklin was an active supporter of the civil rights movement and her song “Respect” became an anthem for the civil rights movement and the women’s movement; Whereas Aretha Franklin is most known for her powerful songs such as “Respect”, “(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman”, “Spanish Harlem”, and “Think”; Whereas Aretha Franklin was known as the “Queen of Soul” and on January 3, 1987, became the first woman inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame; Whereas Aretha Franklin has won 18 Grammy Awards and sold over 75,000,000 records worldwide; Whereas Aretha Franklin was inducted into the Michigan Women’s Hall of Fame in 2001, the United Kingdom’s Music Hall of Fame in 2005, and the Gospel Music Association’s Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 2012; Whereas in June 2017 the city of Detroit honored Aretha Franklin with a key to the city and renamed a segment of Madison Avenue in downtown Detroit “Aretha Franklin Way”; Whereas Aretha Franklin was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom on November 9, 2005; Whereas Aretha Franklin received honorary degrees for her contributions to the arts from Harvard University, Princeton University, Yale University, Brown University, Berklee College of Music, the New England Conservatory of Music, University of Michigan, Wayne State University, and Bethune-Cookman College; Whereas Aretha Franklin inspired a generation of artists and enthralled the world with powerful music; and Whereas Aretha Franklin passed away on August 16, 2018, at the age of 76 at her home in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate celebrates the life and legacy of Aretha Franklin and the iconic contributions of Aretha Franklin to music, arts, and civil rights.
08.23.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $200,000 in Support of the East Lansing Fire Department Thursday, August 23, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $220,796 for the East Lansing Fire Department to purchase 35 self-contained breathing apparatus air packs, 70 air bottles and 48 integrated digital face masks. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. "Our firefighters in East Lansing put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help keep the public safe and give our first responders the equipment they need to do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Firefighters and first responders work tirelessly to ensure our communities are safe places to work, go to school, and raise a family,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help ensure the East Lansing Fire Department will be better equipped to do their jobs efficiently and safely when emergencies arise.” “Firefighters are a first line of defense bringing the resources necessary to protect and safeguard communities from all hazards,” said Randall Talifarro, Chief of the East Lansing Fire Department. “This revenue will help us more effective at performing this critical responsibility.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.16.2018	Stabenow, Peters Urge President Trump to Approve Individual Assistance Appeal to Help Families Affected by Severe Flooding in the Upper Peninsula Thursday, August 16, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today urged President Trump to approve Governor Snyder’s appeal of Individual Assistance for families affected by the severe flash flooding that occurred in Houghton, Gogebic and Menominee counties. FEMA denied the State of Michigan’s request for Individual Assistance last week. The Governor’s appeal indicates that only 18 individuals and businesses have active flood insurance and without federal assistance, the majority of the over 900 homeowners suffering major structural and electrical damage will be without necessary resources. This follows calls by Senators Stabenow and Peters for the Administration to approve a major disaster declaration for the three communities in order to provide federal assistance. Public Assistance was made available to public facilities such as roads, culverts and water and sewer systems; however, many homeowners are still in need of Individual Assistance to repair extensive damage to their homes. “We have seen firsthand the extensive damage and heard from those affected by the flash flooding that additional assistance is needed,” wrote the senators. “We urge you to accept the Governor’s appeal and swiftly provide the requested assistance, so the residents and business owners in these communities can recover from this disaster.” The text of the letter may be found below. August 16, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing in support of Governor Snyder’s August 14, 2018 appeal of the denial of Individual Assistance for those affected by the severe flash flooding that occurred in Houghton, Gogebic, and Menominee counties on June 16-18. The appeal comes after you granted the Governor’s request for Public Assistance to help rebuild public infrastructure, but denied Individual Assistance to help property owners repair or rebuild their damaged homes and businesses. In mid-June, heavy rainfall in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula resulted in flooding that has had devastating impacts on homes, businesses, and public infrastructure. Federal, state, and local officials working on the ground conducted assessments from June 26-29, and determined the level of damage required federal assistance. We have seen firsthand the extensive damage and heard from those affected by the flash flooding that additional assistance is needed. The flooding affected an estimated 900 homes, causing major structural damage, electrical damage, furnace and water heater damage, and extensive mold. Without access to the necessary resources, families may end up staying in homes with unsafe living conditions. Further, the economy of the affected areas depend heavily on tourism, which has significantly decreased because of the flooding. As noted in the Governor’s appeal, only 18 individuals and businesses have active flood insurances policies in the three counties where the flooding occurred. Nonprofits and local governments are doing their best to assist homeowners but without adequate federal funding, it will be nearly impossible to bring in the necessary resources to make the repairs quickly and ensure families have a safe home before winter. The people of the State of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula are resilient, and we commend the work of federal, state, and local officials to provide assistance. However, there is still much work to be done to ensure the safety of all those affected by the storms. We urge you to accept the Governor’s appeal and swiftly provide the requested assistance, so the residents and business owners in these communities can recover from this disaster. Thank you for your consideration of our request.
08.15.2018	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $500,000 in Support for the Bedford Township Fire Department Wednesday, August 15, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Bedford Township Fire Department will receive $536,071 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program to hire four firefighters for a three year period. This funding will support the hiring and retention of firefighters and volunteer firefighters and allow the Bedford Township Fire Department to increase their advanced life support service at all hours. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Bedford Township Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “First responders help make our communities a better place to live, work and raise a family,” said Senator Peters. “These resources will give Bedford Township Fire Department the additional personnel needed to respond to emergencies whenever they strike.” “We are extremely grateful for the grant awarded to the department,” said Adam Massingill, Chief of the Bedford Township Fire Department. “It allows us to continue to improve upon the service we currently provide to the residents and visitors in Bedford Township.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to ensure that departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants.
08.10.2018	Following Series of Statewide Roundtables, Senator Stabenow Announces Legislation and Actions to Improve Services for Veterans Senator Stabenow has held 13 roundtables across our state over the last year with Michigan veterans, commanders, and service providers Friday, August 10, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) announced legislation and actions to improve services for veterans at events in Berkley, Swartz Creek, and Kentwood. Her announcement follows a statewide series of roundtables Stabenow held with veterans leaders and service providers to get their input on how programs serving veterans are working. “I have had the privilege of working with veterans across Michigan over the years as we’ve championed the opening and expansion of new veterans clinics across the state,” said Senator Stabenow. “This past year, I’ve met with veteran leaders and service providers at 13 roundtables in Michigan to hear firsthand how these and other services are working. In response to these meetings, we are announcing legislation and actions to ensure that our nation continues to keep our promises to those who have served.” Stabenow’s new legislation and actions would improve services for our veterans in four important areas: transition assistance, housing for student veterans, health care, and support for farmer veterans. Helping Veterans Transition to Civilian Life: Senator Stabenow has introduced bipartisan legislation with Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) to reform the Transition Assistance Program, which is responsible for providing counseling, training and assistance to service members. One major reform in the bill would allow service members to give permission to be contacted by local community groups – including veteran service organizations – as they transition into civilian life. Other changes include requiring the Department of Defense to start the transition and counseling process earlier. Maintaining Housing for Student Veterans: Because the VA cannot pay housing benefits in between academic semesters, for some student veterans, the end of the semester can mean the loss of housing benefits. Senator Stabenow’s common-sense Student Veterans Housing Act will ensure that student veterans don’t have to reach into their own pockets to pay for a benefit they have earned. Improving VA Health Care: Stabenow heard from veterans across the state about problems with the Veterans Choice program and passed legislation to improve VA care. The VA Mission Act – recently signed into law – included legislation authored by Senator Stabenow to require the VA to pay providers within 30 days of receiving an electronic claim or 45 days of receiving a paper claim. This will ensure that rural hospitals and providers are reimbursed for services and can continue to see patients. Supporting Our Farmer Veterans: As Chair of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Stabenow championed initiatives in the 2014 Farm Bill to help veterans start careers in agriculture, creating a Veteran Liaison at the Agriculture Department and providing veterans more training and financing. To build on this progress, Senator Stabenow authored provisions that help expand support for farmer veterans in the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, which passed the Senate on a bipartisan historic vote of 86-11. More information on Stabenow’s new legislation may be found here. “We were so appreciative to host Senator Stabenow earlier this year for an important discussion with our veterans and advocates on how we can improve services,” said Tom Bustance, Commander of American Legion Post 374. “We are thankful she is back again to announce these new actions to help keep our promise to our veterans.” “I’m proud to stand with Senator Stabenow today because I know she supports veterans and has our back,” said John Wuerth, Oakland County resident, member of UAW Region 1 Veterans Council, and former Navy radioman who served during Vietnam. “She listened to our concerns and is taking action to better help veterans get the care they need and transition back to civilian life.” “We were so appreciative to host Senator Stabenow earlier this year for an important discussion with our veterans and advocates on how we can improve services,” said Gary Goodall, American Legion 1st Vice Commander. “We are thankful she is back again to announce these new actions to help keep our promise to our veterans.” “I’m proud to stand with Senator Stabenow today because I know she supports student veterans,” said Chaz Fowler, United States Marine Corps veteran and Saginaw Valley State University student. “Her new legislation will make it easier for student veterans to keep their housing between semesters and stay on track to graduate.” “Senator Stabenow understands the challenges veterans face when they transition back to civilian life,” said Sgt. First Class U.S. Army Retired Ronnie Cyrus, Transition Assistance Advisor for the State of Michigan and Legion of Merit Recipient. “She is listening to our concerns and is taking action to better help veterans get the care and resources they need and I think this is a great start.” “We had a great discussion with Senator Stabenow at the last roundtable and are pleased she is back today to announce new actions to help student veterans,” said Bethany Alford, Director of Military Student Affairs at Saginaw Valley State University. “Senator Stabenow’s work in this area is deeply appreciated.” “We are so happy to host Senator Stabenow today as she announces these new actions to help keep our promise to our veterans,” said Steve Pruitt, President and Adjutant of DAV William A. Smith, Jr. Chapter 2. “Senator Stabenow has always been a great partner as we work to better serve Michigan’s veterans.” “I’m proud to stand with Senator Stabenow today because I know she supports veterans and has our back,” said Michael Hyacinthe, United States Navy Seabee Veteran and entrepreneur. “She is listening to our concerns and is taking action to better help veterans get the care they need and transition back to civilian life.” “Michigan farmer veterans across the state appreciate Senator Stabenow’s support,” said Frank Corrado, United States Army veteran and blueberry farmer. “We are grateful for her work to secure new resources in the Farm Bill that help us start and sustain a life on the farm.” “We know student veterans face unique challenges,” said Tim Marroquin, Director of the Veterans Upward Bound Program at Grand Valley State University. “Senator Stabenow has been a strong partner in our efforts to make sure student veterans get the resources they need to be successful.”
08.09.2018	Stabenow Applauds New Dairy Manufacturing Plant Coming to St. Johns New processing plant, paired with recent improvements in Stabenow’s 2018 Farm Bill, will create jobs and support Michigan dairy farmers Thursday, August 09, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today welcomed the announcement of a new dairy processing plant coming to St. Johns, Mich. “When we make things here and grow things here, we create jobs in Michigan," said Stabenow. “This new dairy plant and recent improvements we made in the 2018 Farm Bill are bringing new jobs to Michigan and giving our state’s top commodity a needed boost at a critical time.” Dairy is Michigan’s top commodity, contributing over $15 billion to the state’s economy. Unfortunately, recent market instability and trade disruptions have caused many family dairy farms to take on additional debt or even go out of business. The financial uncertainty paired with a lack of processing capacity in the region has put Michigan’s dairy farmers at a disadvantage. The manufacturing plant will provide a new outlet for Michigan milk producers and create hundreds of manufacturing jobs in St. Johns. Prior to the new plant announcement, Senator Stabenow has led the effort in Congress to support Michigan’s dairy industry and grow employment opportunities across agriculture. In June, the Senate recently passed Stabenow’s bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill, which includes unprecedented investments for Michigan’s dairy farmers and strengthens Michigan’s agricultural economy. The 2018 Senate Farm Bill creates a new-and-improved safety net called Dairy Risk Coverage to help dairy farmers weather financial uncertainty and builds on the improvements Stabenow authored in the Bipartisan Budget Act that has provided nearly $10 million in support to dairy farmers this year so far. The Farm Bill also refunds farmers who received coverage under the former safety net – the Margin Protection Program – which did not live up to expectations. The bill also includes a new donation initiative that helps Michigan dairy farmers provide milk to local food banks.
08.09.2018	Stabenow Calls on State of Michigan to Appeal FEMA Denial of Individual Assistance to Families Affected by Severe Flooding in the Upper Peninsula Thursday, August 09, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released a statement urging the State of Michigan to appeal a decision by the Federal Emergency Management Agency which denied Individual Assistance to families affected by severe flooding in the Upper Peninsula. “I strongly disagree with FEMA’s decision to deny Individual Assistance to the residents of Houghton, Gogebic and Menominee counties who are still suffering after severe flooding,” said Senator Stabenow. “I urge the State to appeal this decision so that residents who have been working tirelessly to get back on their feet will have the resources they need to rebuild and recover.” This follows calls by Senators Stabenow and Peters for the Administration to approve a major disaster declaration for the three communities in order to provide federal assistance. Last week, recovery resources through FEMA’s Public Assistance Program became available to the affected communities. Since Public Assistance is only available to public facilities such as roads, culverts, and water and sewer systems, many homeowners are still in need of Individual Assistance to repair extensive damage to their homes.
08.07.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $100,000 in Support of the Clay Township Fire Department Tuesday, August 07, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $104,762 for the Clay Township Fire Department to replace the ventilation system in two fire stations. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. "Our firefighters in Clay Township put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help keep the public safe and give our first responders the equipment they need to do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Firefighters in Clay Township are the first to respond when disaster strikes, and this funding will help keep firefighters safe while serving their communities,” said Senator Peters. “This funding enables our fire department to replace necessary ventilation systems in 2 fire stations, keeping our fire fighters in a safe work environment," said Artie Bryson, Clay Township Supervisor. “Receiving this grant plays a crucial role in protecting the citizens of Clay Township. We are very thankful for the continued support of Senators Stabenow and Peters.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.07.2018	Senator Stabenow Visits Small Businesses in Mason Tuesday, August 07, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Mason as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow visited with business owners at Kean’s Gift Shop, Bestsellers and Vault Deli as well as Maple Street Antiques. Stabenow’s tour has included over 150 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston, Roseville, Montague, Whitehall, Berrien Springs, Dearborn, Cheboygan, Pentwater and Mason. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Mason is no exception.”
08.03.2018	Stabenow, Peters Responded to Federal Disaster Declaration Following Severe Flooding in the Upper Peninsula In July, lawmakers urged President Trump to support State of Michigan’s request for a major disaster declaration Friday, August 03, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today responded to the approval for a major disaster declaration following severe flash flooding that affected Houghton, Gogebic and Menominee counties. In July, the lawmakers sent a letter to President Trump urging the declaration for the affected areas be made. The damage from the flooding in the three counties is estimated at more than $42 million in covered damage to public facilities. With this declaration, assistance through FEMA’s Public Assistance Program is available to communities in Houghton, Gogebic, and Menominee counties. All areas in the State of Michigan are also eligible for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. “This funding is an important step in supporting recovery efforts already underway in Houghton, Gogebic and Menominee counties,” said Senator Stabenow. “I saw firsthand the extensive damage caused by the mudslides and severe water damage that has impacted so many families. I urge the Administration to also ensure that Individual Assistance is made available for local residents recovering from the severe flooding.” “I visited Houghton last month to see firsthand the level of damage and was inspired by the resilience of the community,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased that at our urging, the President has approved a federal disaster declaration, which is critical to swiftly addressing flood damage before winter approaches. As Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee overseeing emergency management, I will continue working to ensure FEMA recognizes the unique challenges facing the region as they work to rebuild stronger than ever.” The Public Assistance Program and the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program provide grants to state and local governments to assist with response and recovery from major disasters. The Public Assistance Program assists with debris removal, emergency protective measures and permanent restoration of infrastructure. The purpose of the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program is to reduce loss of life and property due to natural disasters and to enable mitigation measures to be implemented during the immediate recovery from a major disaster. For additional information regarding the federal assistance, please contact the MSP Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division at 517-243-0149.
08.03.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Fire Departments in Cities of Inkster & Wayne Friday, August 03, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Inkster Fire Department and the Wayne Fire Department have been awarded assistance from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) Program. The Inkster Fire Department will receive $301,771 for vehicle equipment, including an ambulance, an advanced life support heart monitor, a power lift stretcher and operations and safety support. The Wayne Fire Department will receive $214,287 for vehicle equipment replacement, including a quintuple combination pumper that serves as both a fire engine and ladder truck, and a self-contained breathing apparatus. "Our firefighters in Inkster and Wayne put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help keep the public safe and give our first responders the equipment they need to do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Firefighters in Inkster and Wayne work hard to ensure that their communities are safe places to live and work,” said Senator Peters. “This funding ensures these brave and women have the equipment they need to do their jobs more effectively.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical organizations throughout Michigan and across the nation can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants allow first responders to purchase the equipment and get the necessary training to handle fire-related hazards. Further information about the AFG can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.03.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $4 Million for the Bishop International Airport Friday, August 03, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Bishop International Airport will receive $4,012,542 to rehabilitate the taxiway. This funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Airport Improvement Program. “This investment will make traveling to and from the Bishop International Airport safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Bishop International Airport plays a critical role in connecting Michiganders with business and travel opportunities around the world,” said Senator Peters. “By using this funding to improve their taxiway, the airport can more effectively and safely provide these critical transportation services, and continue to serve as an economic engine for the community.” “We’re pleased to receive this grant as part of the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Improvement Program. Our partnership with the FAA and our congressional delegation helps to ensure the receipt of these grant monies,” said Craig Williams, Airport Director of Bishop International Airport Authority. “The $4.01-million allows the airport to rehabilitate one of our key taxiways and make improvements that will enhance safety for both airport and flight operations.” The FAA’s Airport Improvement Program provides more than $3 billion in annual funding for projects that are needed to maintain the safety, security, capacity, and efficiency of the nation’s airports. More than 3,300 airports are eligible for AIP grants benefiting commercial passengers, cargo operations, and general aviation activities throughout the nation. More information about the Airport Improvement Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/aip/overview/.
08.02.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces New Support for Ogemaw and Otsego County First Responders Two grants, made possible by rural development funding in the current Farm Bill, will help purchase new patrol vehicles Thursday, August 02, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced new federal support to help the Ogemaw County Sheriff and Gaylord Police Departments purchase patrol vehicles. "Emergency responders in our rural communities need to travel many miles to protect our families, homes, and businesses," said Senator Stabenow. “These new investments will help our police and sheriffs better serve their communities safely and efficiently.” The Ogemaw County Sheriff Department will receive $22,000 to help purchase a patrol vehicle and new equipment including a siren and interior partitions. The vehicle will help the Sheriff Department serve more than 2,100 residents throughout the county. The Gaylord Police Department, which also provides emergency assistance to other areas in Otsego County, will receive $36,000 to help purchase a SUV patrol vehicle. In winter weather conditions, the SUV will help the Department safely serve more than 3,600 residents. These investments come through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development grants, which are part of the current Farm Bill authored by Senator Stabenow. With the current Farm Bill set to expire this fall, Senator Stabenow recently introduced a new bipartisan Farm Bill, which strengthens support for rural communities in Michigan.
08.02.2018	Stabenow Statement on Administration’s Decision to Roll Back Fuel Economy and Emissions Standards Thursday, August 02, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on the Administration’s decision to roll back fuel economy and emissions standards: “The President’s preferred action is not supported by our automakers, suppliers, workers, and consumers. The Administration’s decision to roll back fuel economy and emission standards moves us backward. Our automakers and workers are making the best vehicles in the world and these standards have helped push technology forward. We must work together to find agreement on one strong national standard supported by all states and stakeholders.”
08.01.2018	Stabenow Announces Restoration of Great Lakes Funding Other Michigan wins include requirement for EPA to implement recommendations on Flint Water Crisis Wednesday, August 01, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today announced that the Senate restored full funding to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. President Trump’s 2019 budget request once again nearly eliminated funding for the Great Lakes. “For months, Michigan residents have sent a clear signal that they do not support the Administration’s cuts to Great Lakes funding,” said Senator Stabenow. “Because of those voices, and our bipartisan efforts, we ensured that every penny of this funding was restored so that the work of protecting our Great Lakes can continue.” The legislation that the Senate passed today also included Stabenow’s amendment requiring the Environmental Protection Agency to implement recommendations on the Flint water crisis in the Inspector General’s report, “Management Weakness Delayed Response to Flint Water Crisis.” The report calls on the EPA to update the Lead and Copper Rule, which dictates how communities control lead in drinking water. The report also dictates that the EPA release a clear policy that outlines when the agency should intervene in future incidents. In addition to these changes, the budget bill also maintains current funding levels critical in stopping the spread of Asian carp.
07.31.2018	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $700,000 in Support for the Farmington Hills Fire Department Tuesday, July 31, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Farmington Hills Fire Department will receive $708,521 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program to hire four firefighters for a three year period. This funding will support the hiring and retention of firefighters and volunteer firefighters and allow the Farmington Hills Fire Department to be fully staffed at all hours. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Farmington Hills Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “When emergencies arise, firefighters help their neighbors in need,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help ensure the Farmington Hills Fire Department has the necessary resources to properly serve the community.” “This funding enables our fire department to add staff for our 24/7 fire and EMS coverage, which is crucial for the safety of our community,” said Jon Unruh, Chief of the Farmington Hills Fire Department. “We appreciate the partnership and support from Senators Stabenow and Peters to help us continue to protect Farmington Hills.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to ensure that departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants.
07.31.2018	Stabenow Career Counseling Legislation Signed into Law Tuesday, July 31, 2018 Legislation championed by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) to help school districts and community colleges hire more career counselors was signed into law today by President Trump. Stabenow’s bipartisan Careers Act passed as part of the reauthorization of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act that passed unanimously out of the Senate. Earlier this year, Congress passed a spending bill that included $1.2 billion for career and technical education. Stabenow’s legislation will allow school districts and community colleges to use some of this funding to recruit and retain career counselors who can put students on a path towards a rewarding career in manufacturing and the skilled trades as well as a four-year degree. “Too many students and parents in Michigan aren’t aware of opportunities for good paying jobs in the professional trades where you can graduate with no debt,” said Senator Stabenow. “Increasing the number of career counselors focused on the skilled trades will help to make sure all young people have the opportunity and skills they need to get a good-paying job.” School counselors play an important role in exposing students and parents to a full range of career and postsecondary options. Unfortunately, many communities across the country lack the resources to adequately staff schools with experienced counselors who can help students reach their full potential. Michigan has the third-worst student-to-counselor ratio in the country at 729 to 1. The recommended average is 250 to 1. The Careers Act is part of the Senator’s New Skills for New Jobs agenda, which focuses on expanding career paths for every young person and filling the demand of Michigan businesses who are ready to hire.
07.30.2018	Senator Stabenow Applauds New Support for Rural Businesses in the Thumb Region Two new grants made possible by rural development funding in the current Farm Bill Monday, July 30, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today announced new federal support to help create jobs and grow rural businesses along the I-69 corridor and Thumb region. “Small businesses are the backbone of Michigan’s economy, creating new jobs and keeping our communities strong," said Senator Stabenow. “These new investments will help our rural businesses thrive throughout this region.” The I-69 Regional Development Corporation will receive $68,900 to support local businesses and create or save 91 jobs within seven counties, including Genesee, Huron, Lapeer, St. Clair, Sanilac, Shiawassee, and Tuscola. The Tuscola County Economic Development Corp will receive $77,600 for a similar project to promote small, emerging businesses, which would support 37 jobs. Both grants will provide support to grow and sustain local businesses across the Thumb region– from offering assistance for equipment leasing to providing critical infrastructure improvements such as building access roads and parking lots. “The fund is available to assist businesses with financing needs that result in the creation/retention of jobs in the region. The I-69 Regional Development Corporation is pleased to be able to provide this small business tool,” stated Patricia Lucas, Executive Director of the I-69 Regional Development Corporation. These investments come through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Rural Business Development Grants program, which is a part of the current Farm Bill authored by Senator Stabenow. With the current Farm Bill set to expire this fall, Senator Stabenow recently introduced a new bipartisan Farm Bill, which strengthens support for rural communities in Michigan.
07.23.2018	Stabenow Holds Roundtables with Veterans Leaders, Service Providers across Michigan Monday, July 23, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) held a series of a roundtable discussions with veterans leaders and service providers in Iron Mountain, Traverse City, Muskegon, Benton Harbor, Saginaw, Detroit, Berkley, Swartz Creek, Lansing, Warren, Taylor, Grand Rapids, and Monroe to get their input on how programs serving veterans are working and provide an update on her latest work to support veterans and their families. “It was an honor to meet with veterans and other leaders who are on the front lines in meeting the needs of veterans in Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “We’ve made some important progress in addressing problems with our VA health system and providing job, housing and educational opportunities for our veterans, but there are still so many more challenges and issues to address. These discussions were great and will help me continue to get things done for our Michigan veterans in Washington.” “UP veterans appreciate the care they receive at Jacobetti Home for Veterans,” said Jim Provost, Chairman of the Marquette County Veterans Alliance. “The Choice program needs to be easier for veterans to access and veterans with mental health care issues need a designated link to local providers. We appreciate Senator Stabenow's support for veterans and concern for their welfare." “Project Cherry Tree, a policy advocacy group for northern Michigan Veterans, greatly appreciates the opportunity to meet with Senator Stabenow to discuss rural veteran challenges regarding their Veteran Administration benefits,” said Steve Chowen, Executive Director of Project Cherry Tree. “We strongly feel that the over 80,000 rural veterans in the 1st Congressional District of Michigan earned the benefit of receiving their service connected healthcare close to their homes and community instead of traveling hundreds of miles to a VA facility. We look forward to our continued work with Congressional leaders to bring true choice to how and where our deserving rural Michigan veterans receive their Veteran Administration healthcare benefits.” “Advocating for veterans and their families is a genuine concern for Senator Stabenow, made clear by her willingness to dig deep into the details here in Muskegon,” said Eli Fox, Manager of Student Success & Veterans Affairs at Muskegon Community College. “Muskegon Community College was honored to host her roundtable with such a passionate group of on-the-ground specialists. The discussion deepened local connections already cultivated to remove barriers. I look forward to seeing the group’s collective thoughts brought to the federal level to improve the lives of veterans nationally.” “We are honored that Senator Stabenow offered to have this forum with local veteran service providers here in southwestern Michigan,” said Lee Lull, Director of Berrien County Veterans Services. “It provides a venue to learn what Washington is currently doing for our veterans and to provide her with feedback from the front line veteran service providers on suggestions to improve services for veterans. Our office has contacted Senator Stabenow’s office on numerous occasions in the past and they have always been very helpful and attentive in their response and getting the VA’s attention and a positive outcome for our veterans.” “It was a pleasure to sit down with Senator Stabenow today and have a productive conversation about VA education benefits for Michigan veterans,” said Bethany Alford, Director of Military Student Affairs at Saginaw Valley State University and US Navy Chief. “Her continued work in this area is deeply appreciated and will have lasting impacts in our community and throughout the state.” “We had a roundtable discussion with Senator Stabenow and some leaders in our community,” said Edward Tuggle, Director of Vietnam Veterans of America Chapter 9 in Detroit. “We talked about the promises that have been made to veterans but are not always kept. Senator Stabenow is making sure veterans are not taken advantage of and that promises to them are kept.” “Any opportunity to share information with veterans and hear their concerns is valuable because it allows us to better serve them here in Oakland County,” said Garth Wootten, Division Manager of Oakland County Veterans Services. “We appreciate the opportunity to participate in this roundtable discussion with Senator Stabenow.” “We appreciate Senator Stabenow coming to meet with us in Swartz Creek today,” said John Kayanek, Commander for American Legion Post 294. “Some of our veterans were really impressed with what she’s willing to do for them. It’s great to know we have a champion in Senator Stabenow who is working to get the best deal for veterans.” “We had a productive conversation with Senator Stabenow about some of the issues veterans face in our community,” said Brett Holt, State Commander of the American Legion. “Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate in our work to improve services for veterans and we appreciate her support.” “I am very glad I attended the meeting with Debbie Stabenow,” said Rose A. Rudisill, Founder of Downriver for Veterans. “It is very rewarding when you go to a meeting with a Senator and know that there is hope for us veterans. Debbie listened to our complaints and she understand the frustrations veterans are going through.” GRCC President Bill Pink said the college certified 377 military veteran students in the 2017-2018 academic year, allowing them to take advantage of the funding from state and federal benefit programs to use toward coursework. “We’re proud to serve the people who have served our country, helping them earn credits to advance their education and career skills leading to great jobs,” Pink said. “We’re focused on being relevant and responsive to all of our community. Our veterans are a vitally important part of West Michigan, and we want to make sure they have every opportunity to build on the skills they gained in the service.” “We had a productive discussion with Senator Stabenow today,” said Bob Cebina, Post Commander, VFW 1138. “We’re grateful for the work she is doing to make sure our country keeps its promises to our veterans and their families.” In Iron Mountain, Stabenow was joined by representatives from the Iron Mountain American Legion, Michigan Department of Veterans Affairs, Dickinson County Veterans Service Office, Oscar G. Johnson Iron Mountain VA Medical Center, Dickinson County Health System, Dickinson County Commission, SAIL Disability Network of the UP, and Marquette County Veterans Alliance. In Traverse City, Stabenow was joined by representatives from Project Cherry Tree, Grand Traverse Area Veterans Coalition, Northwestern Michigan College, Traverse Health Clinic, Grand Traverse County, Great Lakes Maritime Academy, Munson Medical Center, Michigan Officers Association of America, VFW Cherryland Post, American Legion Post 35, Northwest Michigan Health Services, and the Department of Labor Veterans’ Employment and Training Services. In Muskegon, Stabenow was joined by representatives from Health West, Kent County Veterans Services, EverSharp Veterans, Inc, County Council of VFWs, Williams Hughes PLLC, WINC: For All Women Veterans, Muskegon Community College, Mercy Health, the Brian Mattson Center for Restorative Justice, Grand Valley State University, and the Battle Creek VA Medical Center. In Benton Harbor, Stabenow was joined by representatives from Berrien County Veterans Services, Michigan Veteran Affairs Agency, Emergency Shelter Services, the American Legion, Battle Creek VA Medical Center, Kalamazoo County Veterans Affairs Office, Volunteers of America Michigan, Conybeare Law Office, P.C., Real Heroes, Van Buren County Veteran’s Services, Right at Home, South Bend Vet Center, Lest We Forget, and Safe Shelter for Domestic Violence. In Saginaw, Stabenow was joined by representatives from the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Vietnam Veterans of America, Marine Corps League, Aleda E. Lutz VA Medical Center, Saginaw American GI Forum, Saginaw Vet Center, Saginaw Valley State University, Midland County Veterans Service Office, Bay County Veterans Foundation, Ascension Health, Bay County Veterans Services, Delta College, and Great Lakes Bay Michigan Works. In Detroit, Stabenow was joined by representatives from the Vietnam Veterans of America Chapter 9, Michigan Veterans Foundation, Macomb County Bicentennial Committee, Montford Point Marines of America, OutCry Youth and Street Ministry, Disabled American Veterans, Michigan Welfare Organization, Volunteers of America, American Legion, Oakland Health Network, and the Detroit City Council. In Berkley, Stabenow was joined by representatives from the Southfield Veterans Commission, Polish Legion of American Veterans, American Legion, City of Berkley, Oakland County Veterans Services, and the American Red Cross Michigan Region. In Swartz Creek Stabenow met with representatives from the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Veterans of Foreign Wars Auxiliary, Marine Corps League, Disabled American Veterans, Polish Legion of American Veterans, Saginaw Vet Center, Navy League, New Beginnings Veterans Outreach, Veteran Community Action Team Region 6, Shiawassee Veteran Affairs and Services, Lapeer County Veterans Affairs, Genesee County Veteran Services, GST Michigan Works!, University of Michigan Flint, Mott Community College, VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System, Aleda E. Lutz VA Medical Center, and Ascension Michigan. In Lansing, Stabenow was joined by representatives from the American Legion, Lansing Community College, Invest Vets, Eaton County, Michigan State University, Battle Creek VA Medical Center, Vietnam Veterans of America, Michigan Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, and Michigan Air and Army National Guard. In Warren, Stabenow met with representatives from All Ways Care/Family Matters, American Legion Post 566, Detroit V.A. Medical Center, Disabled America Veterans South Oakland County Chapter 19, Macomb County Community Mental Health, Macomb/St. Clair Michigan Works!, Macomb County Veteran Services, National Veteran Business Development Council (NVBDC), Sailor, Soldier, Airman & Marine Access Center, State of Michigan Veteran Employment Services, U.S. Army TACOM-Automotive/Armaments Command, VFW Post 6756, VFW Post 6802, VFW Post 4162, VFW Auxiliary Post 1407, and VFW District 10. In Taylor, Stabenow met with representatives from Wayne County Community College Downriver Campus, University of Michigan Dearborn, Downriver for Veterans, M-SPAN Programs, University of Michigan Depression Center, Michigan HHS, Military Order of the Purple Heart Chapter 127 Detroit & Downriver, Gary L Miles Veterans Home, VVA Chapter 259, DAV 125, Howell, and UAW Local 412 Unit 10 Veterans Committee. In Grand Rapids, Stabenow was joined by representatives from Grand Valley State University, the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans, Cherry Health, Mercy Health, Grand Rapids Veterans Center, Habitat for Humanity, Kent County Veterans Services, Battle Creek VA Medical Center, Wyoming VA Health Care Center, Marine Corps League, Ferris State University, and Grand Rapids Community College. In Monroe, Stabenow was joined by representatives from the VFW, Lenawee County Veterans Affairs, ProMedica, Washtenaw County Department of Veterans Affairs, Monroe County Veterans Affairs, Buddy to Buddy Program, Fisher House Michigan, and the VA Ann Arbor Health Care System. More background on Senator Stabenow’s work to improve services for Michigan’s veterans may be found here.
07.17.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $111,000 in Support of Northern Bay Ambulance Tuesday, July 17, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $111,890 for Northern Bay Ambulance in Pinconning to help purchase two natural lift systems. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. "Our first responders in Pinconning put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will give our first responders the equipment they need to better serve the public and do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “First responders stand ready at a moment’s notice to respond when emergencies strike, and it is critical they have the tools to be prepared,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased to announce this support, which will help Northern Bay Ambulance keep their community as a safe place to live, work and raise a family.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.17.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $116,000 in Support of the Lyon Township Fire Department Tuesday, July 17, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $116,191 for the Lyon Township Fire Department to purchase an exhaust removal system. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. "Our firefighters in Lyon Township put their lives on the line to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help keep the public safe and give our first responders the equipment they need to do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “First responders stand ready at a moment’s notice to respond when emergencies strike, and it is critical they have the tools to be prepared,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased to announce this support, which will help the Lyon Township Fire Department keep their community as a safe place to live, work and raise a family.” “We are excited to receive support for the addition of an exhaust removal system for our two fire stations," said Ken Van Sparrentak, Chief of the Lyon Township Fire Department. “This funding will help us keep our firefighters, first-responders and all of the Lyon Township community safe and healthy by removing dangerous toxic fumes linked to cancer.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.17.2018	Senator Stabenow Visits Small Businesses in Pentwater Tuesday, July 17, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with Pentwater Village President and small business owner, Jeffrey Hodges, as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow visited Village Café and Pub as well as Provisions Sports Shop. Stabenow’s tour has included over 150 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston, Roseville, Montague, Whitehall, Berrien Springs, Dearborn, Cheboygan and Pentwater. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Pentwater is no exception.” "I enjoyed the time spent with the Senator and her staff, it is refreshing to know that she is interested and concerned with our small communities as well as the larger concerns at hand,” said Jeff Hodges, President of Pentwater Village, Owner of Village Café and Pub and Provisions Sport Shop. “I am confident that she will work on solving our concerns including the challenge of finding qualified employees in our small seasonal communities like Pentwater.”
07.16.2018	Stabenow Holds Roundtable with Veterans Leaders, Service Providers in Grand Rapids This is one of many roundtable discussions Senator Stabenow is holding with veterans across the state Monday, July 16, 2018 GRAND RAPIDS – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today held a roundtable discussion with veterans leaders and service providers at Grand Rapids Community College (GRCC) to get their input on how programs serving veterans are working and provide an update on her latest work to support veterans and their families. “It was an honor to meet in Grand Rapids today with veterans and other leaders who are on the front lines in meeting the needs of veterans in West Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “We’ve made some important progress in addressing problems with our VA health system and providing job, housing and educational opportunities for our veterans, but there are still so many more challenges and issues to address. Today’s discussion was great and will help me continue to get things done for our Michigan veterans.” GRCC President Bill Pink said the college certified 377 military veteran students in the 2017-2018 academic year, allowing them to take advantage of the funding from state and federal benefit programs to use toward coursework. “We’re proud to serve the people who have served our country, helping them earn credits to advance their education and career skills leading to great jobs,” Pink said. “We’re focused on being relevant and responsive to all of our community. Our veterans are a vitally important part of West Michigan, and we want to make sure they have every opportunity to build on the skills they gained in the service.” Stabenow was joined by representatives from Grand Valley State University, the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans, Cherry Health, Mercy Health, Grand Rapids Veterans Center, Habitat for Humanity, Kent County Veterans Services, Battle Creek VA Medical Center, Wyoming VA Health Care Center, Marine Corps League, Ferris State University, and Grand Rapids Community College. More background on Senator Stabenow’s work to improve services for Michigan’s veterans may be found here.
07.13.2018	Stabenow Announces Opposition to Kavanaugh Nomination Friday, July 13, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement to announce that she will oppose Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to serve on the United States Supreme Court: “This Supreme Court vacancy represents a very serious and consequential moment for our country. It is essential that the next Supreme Court Justice not only be educated in the law but also balanced, impartial in his views, and focused on justice for all Americans. “Based on the large number of cases and opinions written throughout Judge Kavanaugh’s career, it is clear that he has chosen to side with the wealthiest special interests over the majority of Americans time after time. “Judge Kavanaugh’s comments and rulings make it clear that he would roll back women’s access to reproductive health care and make it much harder for Michigan families to get affordable insurance coverage, especially if they have preexisting conditions like cancer, diabetes, or heart disease. “Judge Kavanaugh also has a record of siding with special interests over the rights and freedoms of working people and siding with polluters to gut environmental laws that protect our air, water, and Great Lakes. “I have another deep concern as well. Of all the choices the President had for this position, he chose the one person who has indicated on the record that he believes the President is above the law. Judge Kavanaugh once wrote, ‘Under the Constitution, the President may decline to enforce a statute that regulates private individuals when the President deems the statute unconstitutional, even if a court has held or would hold the statute constitutional.’ “Our founders created our democracy with three branches of government, not one. They created checks and balances so that it would be clear that no one is above the law. “It is the Senate’s constitutional duty to provide advice and consent on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination on behalf of the people we represent. “After reviewing his record, I believe it is in the best interests of the people of Michigan for me to oppose the nomination of Judge Kavanaugh.”
07.12.2018	Senator Stabenow Meets with Michigan Farmer Veteran Jed Welder Thursday, July 12, 2018 Senator Stabenow joins Michigan farmer veteran Jed Welder to discuss the Homegrown by Heroes initiative, which supports products grown and made by our veterans. The 2018 Senate Farm Bill, co-authored by Senator Stabenow expands support to connect veterans with exciting career opportunities in agriculture. Keep an eye out for the Homegrown by Heroes label and learn more about it here: https://www.farmvetco.org/hbh/
07.11.2018	Stabenow, Peters, Bergman Urge President Trump to Issue Federal Disaster Declaration Following Severe Flooding in the Upper Peninsula Wednesday, July 11, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Representative Jack Bergman (R-MI) yesterday urged President Trump to approve Lieutenant Governor Brian Calley’s request for a major disaster declaration following severe flash flooding that affected Houghton, Gogebic and Menominee counties. The Lt. Governor’s request describes the damage from the flooding in the three counties as extensive – estimated at more than $42 million in covered damage to public facilities – and requiring federal assistance. If approved, federal assistance and resources to the communities and families affected would be made available through various federal sources including FEMA and the Small Business Administration. “The people of the State of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula are resilient, and we commend the work of federal, state, and local officials to promptly assess the damage from the flooding,” wrote the lawmakers. “We urge you to issue a federal major disaster declaration swiftly and to provide the requested assistance so the residents and business owners of these communities can begin to recover from this disaster. Thank you for your consideration of our request.” The text of the letter may be found below. July 10, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing in support of Lieutenant Governor Brian Calley’s request on July 9, 2018 for a major disaster declaration for the State of Michigan as a result of severe flash flooding that occurred in Houghton, Gogebic, and Menominee counties on June 16-17. This request comes after federal, state, and local officials conducted a Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment in the counties affected and determined that federal assistance was needed. In mid-June, heavy rainfall in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula resulted in flooding that has had devastating impacts on homes, businesses, and public infrastructure. Federal, state, and local officials working on the ground conducted assessments from June 26-29, and determined the level of damage required federal assistance. As the Lt. Governor described in the request, the extensive damage and required recovery efforts extend beyond the capacity of the State and local governments. The Lt. Governor is requesting Individual Assistance from the federal government to support eligible residents with home repairs and uninsured property losses and assistance to help businesses recover from this disaster. Additionally, the Lt. Governor is requesting Public Assistance to support the State and local governments in their efforts to repair damaged public facilities and infrastructure, including considerable damage to roads and bridges. The people of the State of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula are resilient, and we commend the work of federal, state, and local officials to promptly assess the damage from the flooding. While summer is currently in full swing, the Upper Peninsula’s unpredictable weather can significantly shorten the traditional construction season. Any damage that is not addressed before the season ends could be compounded by the snow melt in the spring and increase the risks to the affected communities. We urge you to issue a federal major disaster declaration swiftly and to provide the requested assistance so the residents and business owners of these communities can begin to recover from this disaster. Thank you for your consideration of our request.
07.10.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces New Support for First Responders in Northern Michigan Two new grants made possible by rural development funding in the current Farm Bill Tuesday, July 10, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced new federal support to help fund the purchase of equipment for first responders serving four counties in Northern Michigan. "Our first responders are on the front lines in caring for our families and keeping our communities safe," said Stabenow. “These new investments will help improve response to fires and medical emergencies for communities in Northern Michigan.” Denton Township, which provides emergency assistance to over 5,500 residents in Roscommon, Ogemaw, and Gladwin Counties, will receive $19,200 to purchase an automated device to administer CPR during ambulance transport. The grant will also help purchase new paging devices to provide reliable communication with the county 911 systems. The City of Grayling will receive $39,700 to purchase fire and rescue equipment including additional turn out gear for first responders. The grant will help to protect firefighters and more than 1,800 residents throughout Crawford County, which is heavily forested. These investments come through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grants program, which is a part of the current Farm Bill authored by Senator Stabenow. With the current Farm Bill set to expire this fall, Senator Stabenow recently introduced a new bipartisan Farm Bill, which strengthens support for rural communities in Michigan.
07.10.2018	Stabenow Statement on Kavanaugh Nomination Tuesday, July 10, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States: "This Supreme Court vacancy represents a very consequential moment for our country. I have serious concerns about Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s record. Based on his past decisions, I am deeply concerned that he would roll back women’s access to reproductive health care, make it harder for Michigan families to get affordable health coverage, particularly if they have a preexisting condition, and weaken enforcement of our environmental laws, like our clean water laws that protect our Great Lakes. I intend to review his complete record and will evaluate his nomination thoroughly."
07.06.2018	Senator Stabenow, Local Leaders Announce Successes for Michigan in Senate-Passed Bipartisan Farm Bill Following a historic bipartisan vote, West Michigan leaders highlight wins for farmers, families, and rural communities Friday, July 06, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today joined local food, agriculture, and rural leaders at Dietrich Orchards to announce wins for Michigan farmers, families, and communities in the bipartisan Senate Farm Bill. Stabenow, who serves as Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry, co-authored the bill with Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) The bill passed the U.S. Senate last week on a strong bipartisan vote of 86-11 – the most votes a Senate Farm Bill has ever received. “Backed by historic bipartisan support, the 2018 Senate Farm Bill reflects Michigan on every page,” said Stabenow. “From the start, I led the effort to ensure the bill will help create jobs, protect the Great Lakes, and strengthen our rural communities across Michigan.” Serving as Chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee in 2014, Stabenow authored the current Farm Bill, which is set to expire in September 2018. Stabenow’s new Farm Bill continues to strongly support Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies and providing healthy food for families. Stabenow was joined by local food, agriculture, and rural leaders, who applauded the bill. Al Dietrich, Owner of Dietrich Orchards, said: “Michigan is one of the largest producers of apples in the country and the programs of the Farm Bill will allow the Michigan Apple industry to forge partnerships, increase market presence, and provide safe, high-quality fruit to consumers. The new Farm Bill will help our state’s apple growers continue to be productive and profitable. We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s long-standing support of Michigan’s apple industry.” Greg Bird, Executive Director of the Michigan Vegetable Council, said: “Senator Stabenow has been a champion for Michigan’s diverse agricultural economy and the wide variety of vegetables we grow here. We appreciate the Senator’s work in the Farm Bill to provide certainty for our farmers through risk management tools, innovative research, and new market opportunities.” Rachel Bair, Director for Sustainable and Innovative Food Systems for Kalamazoo Valley Community College, said: “The Farm Bill has grown local food economies in Michigan, bringing fresh, healthy food to communities, while also connecting Michigan farmers with local consumers. Senator Stabenow has led the effort to grow Michigan’s local food systems, helping food go from farms to our plates.” Tom Anthony, President of Michigan Rural Water Association, said: “Because many rural communities face challenges with water and waste water infrastructure, the Farm Bill is critical to helping small towns provide clean and affordable water and waste water service. Senator Stabenow has been a leader for rural Michigan, working to ensure that families and businesses across the state have safe and affordable and reliable access to water and sewer services.” For a summary of the 2018 bipartisan Senate Farm Bill, click here. For a summary of statements from Michigan agricultural leaders praising the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, click here.
07.06.2018	Stabenow, Local Leaders Announce Successes for Michigan in Senate-Passed Bipartisan Farm Bill Following a historic bipartisan vote, Michigan leaders highlight wins for farmers, families, and rural communities Friday, July 06, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today joined local food and agriculture leaders at Uncle John’s Cider Mill to announce wins for Michigan farmers, families, and communities in the bipartisan Senate Farm Bill. Stabenow, who serves as Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry, co-authored the bill with Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) The bill passed the U.S. Senate last week on a strong bipartisan vote of 86-11 – the most votes a Senate Farm Bill has ever received. “Backed by historic bipartisan support, the 2018 Senate Farm Bill reflects Michigan on every page,” said Stabenow. “From the start, I led the effort to ensure the bill will help create jobs, protect the Great Lakes, and strengthen our rural communities across Michigan.” Serving as Chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee in 2014, Stabenow authored the current Farm Bill, which is set to expire in September 2018. Stabenow’s new Farm Bill continues to strongly support Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies and providing healthy food for families. Stabenow was joined by local food and agriculture leaders, who applauded the bill. Mike Beck, Owner of Uncle John’s Cider Mill, said: “It’s always great to have Senator Stabenow back at Uncle John’s. She has been a long standing champion for Michigan’s farm and food industry, which supports countless jobs and businesses like ours all across Michigan.” Ken Nobis, President of the Michigan Milk Producers Association, said: “As Michigan's largest agriculture commodity, our dairy farmers are a significant contributor to our state’s economy. The new improvements in the Senate Farm Bill will provide much-needed help for our dairy farmers, who have struggled from low milk prices. We thank Senator Stabenow for leading the effort to improve the dairy safety net in the Farm Bill.” Jed Welder, Board Member of the Michigan Farmer Veteran Coalition, said: “Agriculture provides military veterans with meaningful careers and the opportunity to continue serving our country. Michigan farmer veterans across the state appreciate Senator Stabenow’s support to secure new resources in the Farm Bill that help us start and sustain a life on the farm.” Joan Nelson, Director of the Allen Neighborhood Center and Farmers Market, said: “The Farm Bill has helped the Allen Farmers Market bring fresh, healthy food to families in our community, while also providing Michigan farmers with the opportunity to sell directly to their neighbors. Thanks to Senator Stabenow’s leadership, the new Farm Bill will continue to help farmers markets and other local food initiatives grow and thrive for years to come.” For a summary of the 2018 bipartisan Senate Farm Bill, click here. For a summary of statements from Michigan agricultural leaders praising the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, click here.
07.06.2018	Stabenow, Peters & Kildee Announce $30 Million Choice Neighborhoods Grant for Flint Grant Will Support Affordable Housing and Economic Development in South Flint Friday, July 06, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters and U.S. Representative Dan Kildee today announced the City of Flint and the Flint Housing Commission will receive a $30 million Choice Neighborhoods Grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The grant will support the replacement of the Atherton East public housing complex with new modern, affordable housing units, and will help current residents relocate to neighborhoods in South Flint with better access to basic services and job opportunities. “Thanks to the hard work and focused determination of so many community leaders, Flint has made incredible progress,” said Senator Stabenow. “New affordable housing builds on this progress, strengthening neighborhoods and creating job opportunities for Flint residents. There is still much more that needs to be done but today’s announcement is another step forward in the city’s recovery.” “Flint families have shown tremendous strength in the face of serious challenges, and this award will help build a brighter future for this resilient community,” said Senator Peters. “I’m proud to support this project that will not only build new affordable housing, but will also help revitalize the entire community.” “My hometown of Flint is full of promise and this federal grant is an important part of our community’s recovery. Flint families have been through a lot, but our community is tough and Flint is coming back even stronger than before. By boosting economic growth and supporting affordable housing, this Choice Neighborhood grant will mean new investments and opportunities for Flint families,” said Congressman Kildee. In addition to boosting economic development, the grant will support several Flint community organizations that are partnering with the Flint Housing Commission to provide services to South Flint residents. Mott Community College Workforce Development will provide career case management services to help residents secure employment; Hurley Medical Center will help residents access basic health care services, including nutrition counseling and mental health services; and The Flint and Genesee Literacy Network will connect families with educational programming to improve literacy. Stabenow, Peters and Kildee sent a letter to HUD in support of Flint’s application. The letter was also signed by 11 other members of Michigan’s Congressional Delegation. Choice Neighborhood Grants leverage public and private investments to help local development organizations revitalize struggling neighborhoods.
06.29.2018	Legislation Banning Personal Care Products Containing Microbeads Will Go into Effect July 1st Microbeads are tiny plastic particles that pose a major threat to the Great Lakes Friday, June 29, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Legislation passed by U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) prohibiting the sale of personal care products that contain microbeads will go into effect starting on July 1, 2018. Microbeads are tiny plastic particles that can get through water treatment facilities and harm fish and wildlife in the Great Lakes and other bodies of water. “This is great news for our Great Lakes, which are so important to our economy and Michigan way of life,” said Senator Stabenow. “By implementing my law banning microbeads, we are closing the chapter on a dangerous threat to our health and our water.” “This is an important step to ensure that our Great Lakes are protected for generations to come,” said Senator Peters. “Pollution from microbeads is a serious threat to the health of the Great Lakes, and our ban will help keep our wildlife and waterways safe from further harm.” The Microbead-Free Waters Act, which Senators Stabenow and Peters passed into law in 2015, phased out manufacturing of products containing microbeads, such as shampoo, soaps, and facial scrubs. The law provided companies with time to make needed changes to their formulas and perform safety testing on new products. More information may be found on the Federal Drug Administration’s website here.
06.28.2018	Senate Passes Stabenow’s Bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill Thursday, June 28, 2018 Today, the U.S. Senate passed U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow’s bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill by a wide bipartisan margin, 86-11. The bipartisan bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies and providing healthy food for families. “This Farm Bill is a major bipartisan victory that has Michigan on every page,” said Senator Stabenow. “By reaching across party lines and working together, we are able to provide certainty to Michigan’s farmers, families, and rural communities.” Stabenow, who serves as Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry, co-authored the bill with Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), titled the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. Serving as Chairwoman in 2014, Stabenow authored the current Farm Bill, which is set to expire in September 2018. A summary of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 follows: The Bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill The bipartisan Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, also known as the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, will support the one in four jobs related to food and agriculture in Michigan. It will provide five years of certainty for Michigan’s farmers, fuel opportunity in rural communities and grow small businesses. It continues historic investments in land, water and wildlife conservation, will grow Michigan local food economies, and will support families working hard to make ends meet. The Farm Bill expires on September 30th, which is why our farmers, families, and rural communities need a comprehensive five-year Farm Bill now. The Farm Bill is a Jobs Bill The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill fuels economic opportunity and job growth both on and off the farm in small towns and cities alike. It creates certainty – not just for farmers and farm workers, but also for equipment manufacturers, food processing businesses, retailers, and many other employers across Michigan. One in four jobs in Michigan are supported by agriculture, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The food and agriculture sector contributes $101.2 billion to Michigan’s economy annually. Support for bio-based manufacturing creates rural and urban manufacturing jobs by using Michigan-grown crops like corn and soybeans to make biofuels and Michigan-made goods like seat cushions and steering wheels. Clean energy and efficiency upgrades help small businesses and farmers invest in wind and solar technologies that lower utility bills and support energy installation jobs in Michigan. Rural economic development initiatives attract new employers to Michigan’s small towns and rural communities through Main Street infrastructure improvements and expanded access to high-speed internet. Forest management and innovation supports 30,000 Michigan forestry jobs, including loggers and mill workers in northern Michigan and the UP, all while finding new uses for Michigan-grown wood in manufacturing and building construction. Support for farmers markets and food hubs help family farmers and local businesses sell locally grown food and made-in-Michigan products to families, schools, and restaurants, driving the local food economy. The Farm Bill Supports Michigan Farmers From bad weather to volatile markets, farming is one of the riskiest businesses out there – which is why farmers need a strong safety net. The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill equips Michigan farmers with risk management tools that help them stay afloat during unexpected disasters, while also allowing them to tap into new markets to boost their bottom line. Strong risk management tools make it easier for farmers to protect their farms, including expanded crop insurance and risk management options for Michigan farmers who grow crops like apples, cherries, and hops. Improvements for dairy farmers spearheaded by Senator Stabenow include a new, affordable, and flexible safety net called Dairy Risk Coverage, and a new milk donation initiative to encourage dairy farmers to donate milk to Michigan food banks. The bill will also refund premiums for dairy farmers who purchased coverage under the former Margin Protection Program, which did not live up to expectations. Support for specialty crop growers, which Senator Stabenow first authored in a new title in the 2008 Farm Bill to strengthen Michigan’s diverse fruit and vegetable industry, increases productivity and drives demand for the food they grow. New help for beginning farmers, veterans, and urban agriculture creates opportunities to expand Michigan’s diverse agricultural economy and builds the bench to support the future of Michigan agriculture. Strengthened support for organic agriculture protects the integrity of Michigan organic products and helps farmers transition into a fast-growing and profitable sector of agriculture. Investments in agricultural research support the ground-breaking science and technology research being done at Michigan State University, fueling innovation and safeguarding Michigan’s agricultural economy. Strengthened export opportunities will continue to help countless Michigan farmers and small businesses find new global markets for their goods. The Farm Bill Protects the Great Lakes and Supports Outdoor Recreation The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill continues to be one of the most significant investments in the conservation of land, water, and our Michigan way of life. Through targeted conservation efforts, the Farm Bill protects our Great Lakes and rivers, while preserving wildlife habitat to support hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreation. Successful regional conservation partnerships are strengthened to provide greater flexibility for farmers and partners leading regional projects that protect the Great Lakes and improve wildlife habitat for hunting and fishing. Support for farmer-led conservation helps farms reduce nutrient runoff into the rivers and streams that feed into Lake Erie and Saginaw Bay while maintaining productive farms. New hunting and fishing opportunities are created by adding new acres to the Conservation Reserve Program and expanding public access on private land in Michigan for outdoor recreation. Recreation and wildlife habitat in Michigan’s National Forests are strengthened through U.S. Forest Service partnerships with landowners, industry, and the state. The Farm Bill Strengthens Michigan’s Small Towns and Rural Communities Michigan’s small towns and rural communities need real resources to thrive in the 21st Century. The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill has made critical investments to spur economic development and improve the quality of life for families. Investments to strengthen rural water infrastructure helps Michigan families and businesses access clean drinking water and targeted support addresses harmful contaminants like PFAS. Resources to fight the opioid epidemic will expand telemedicine and treatment facilities in rural Michigan communities. Expanded high-speed internet will help to connect nearly 1 million people in rural Michigan who lack access. Support for rural businesses, which has already invested $322 million in nearly 1,000 Michigan businesses, fuels manufacturing, rural entrepreneurship, and the revitalization of main streets. Community facility investments will continue to build hospitals, improve schools, and strengthen fire and police stations in small towns across Michigan. Strengthening Integrity and Food Access for Families Just as the farm bill provides a safety net for Michigan farmers, it also includes a safety net for Michigan families. While the 2014 Farm bill has resulted in savings of $80 billion dollars from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill makes key improvements to further strengthen the integrity of the program, while still preserving critical food access for families. Stronger oversight of SNAP to ensure every SNAP dollar is getting to families in need. New job training opportunities will help SNAP participants find and keep good-paying jobs. Permanent investments for “Double Up” bucks will help SNAP families purchase Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. Reduced paperwork for seniors makes accessing food assistance easier for grandparents on fixed incomes. “Farm to Food Bank” initiative will provide healthy, Michigan-grown foods to families, while reducing food waste.
06.26.2018	Career Counseling Improvement Championed by Senator Stabenow Passes out of Senate Education Committee Key provision would help students pursue careers in manufacturing and the professional skilled trades Tuesday, June 26, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – An improvement championed by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) to help school districts and community colleges hire more career counselors was passed today by the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. Earlier this year, Congress passed a spending bill that included $1.2 billion for career and technical education. Today’s provision, which is modeled on Stabenow’s bipartisan Careers Act, will allow school districts and community colleges to use some of this funding to recruit and retain career counselors who can put students on a path towards a rewarding career in manufacturing and the skilled trades as well as a four-year degree. “There are good paying jobs in the professional skilled trades where you can graduate with no debt,” said Senator Stabenow. “Unfortunately, too many students and parents aren’t aware of these opportunities. By increasing the number of career counselors who are not only focused on college preparation but also the skilled trades, we can make sure all young people have the opportunity and the skills they need to get a good-paying job.” School counselors play an important role in exposing students and parents to a full range of career and postsecondary options. Unfortunately, many communities across the country lack the resources to adequately staff schools with experienced counselors who can help students reach their full potential. Michigan has the third-worst student-to-counselor ratio in the country at 729 to 1. The recommended average is 250 to 1. The provision championed by Stabenow to help connect students with career and job opportunities now heads to the Senate floor as part of the reauthorization of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act. The Careers Act is part of the Senator’s New Skills for New Jobs agenda, which focuses on expanding career paths for every young person and filling the demand of Michigan businesses who are ready to hire.
06.26.2018	Stabenow Announces Extension of Direct Flight Service between Lansing and DC Tuesday, June 26, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that the Federal Aviation Administration granted American Airlines an extension to continue providing direct service from Lansing’s Capital Region International Airport (LAN) to Washington, D.C.’s Reagan National Airport (DCA). The extension will remain in place until October 29, 2019. “Having a direct flight from Michigan’s capital to our nation’s capital is a major boost to Mid-Michigan’s economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “Continuing this important nonstop service benefits Michigan State University and the FRIB, local businesses and Port Lansing’s international trade facilities.” “We are happy to report that our voices in the Lansing region were heard loud and clear in Washington, DC,” said Wayne Sieloff, CEO and President of Capital Region Airport Authority. “We are also appreciative of the continued support from Senator Stabenow.” Senator Stabenow was key in securing this flight service in 2011 and ensuring Lansing kept a direct route to Washington, D.C. In February 2018, Stabenow called on U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao to extend the slot exemption for American Airlines to continue this nonstop service. In July 2016, Senator Stabenow took part in the inaugural direct flight service on American Airlines flying from Lansing to Washington, D.C.
06.21.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Downtown Marquette Business Thursday, June 21, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced new federal support for Donckers, a historic Marquette restaurant and chocolatier. The $11,364 grant will be used to help the business install solar panels. "I’ve had the opportunity to visit Donckers and know how special they are to Marquette’s unique Downtown,” said Senator Stabenow. “This support will not only help them be more energy efficient and support Michigan’s clean energy economy, but will support them as they continue to play a vital role in Marquette’s community and tourism economy.” The investment comes through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Energy for America Program, which is a part of the current Farm Bill authored by Senator Stabenow. With the current Farm Bill set to expire this fall, Senator Stabenow recently introduced a new bipartisan Farm Bill, which strengthens support to help rural businesses develop renewable energy systems and create jobs in small towns and rural communities.
06.20.2018	Stabenow, Peters, Bergman Ready to Support Flood-Damaged Communities in the Upper Peninsula Wednesday, June 20, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) as well as Representative Jack Bergman (R-MI) offered support of any request by the State of Michigan for federal assistance in responding to the widespread flooding that occurred following the heavy rainfall in Houghton and Menominee Counties. On Monday, Governor Snyder declared a state of disaster in Houghton and Menominee counties to make state resources available in the response and recovery effort. “We understand the State of Michigan and local governments in the affected counties are conducting their assessments of the widespread damage caused by the flooding, which has severely impacted roads and resulted in dozens of sinkholes in the area. Emergency declarations are in place in Houghton and Menominee Counties and the State activated the Michigan State Emergency Operations Center,” they wrote. “If the resources to assist these impacted communities in the response and recovery efforts exceed the capacity of the State and local governments, we are ready to support you in efforts to seek federal assistance.” If federal assistance is needed, the Governor will formally request the President approve a federal disaster declaration, which also requires FEMA to conduct a joint damage assessment of public infrastructure. If approved, federal assistance and resources to the communities and families affected could be made available through various federal sources including FEMA and the Small Business Administration. The full text of the letter may be found below. June 19, 2018 The Honorable Rick Snyder Governor, State of Michigan Lansing, MI 48909 Dear Governor Snyder, We write to offer our support of recovery efforts following the heavy rainfall and flooding that occurred this weekend in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, particularly in Houghton and Menominee Counties. We commend the first responders and volunteers, as well as State and local officials for their coordinated efforts. We understand the State of Michigan and local governments in the affected counties are conducting their assessments of the widespread damage caused by the flooding, which has severely impacted roads and resulted in dozens of sinkholes in the area. Emergency declarations are in place in Houghton and Menominee Counties and the State activated the Michigan State Emergency Operations Center. Our offices are communicating with local officials as they work with you and your team to assess the impacts on individuals and property and respond to the immediate needs of the communities affected by the flooding. If the resources to assist these impacted communities in the response and recovery efforts exceed the capacity of the State and local governments, we are ready to support you in efforts to seek federal assistance. We are committed to doing everything we can at the federal level to support those affected by this disaster. Please reach out to our offices if we may be of assistance.
06.20.2018	Stabenow Calls on Trump to Oppose Oil and Gas Drilling in the Great Lakes Wednesday, June 20, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today raised the alarm that President Trump’s recent Executive Order could open the door to oil and gas drilling in the Great Lakes. This would violate the law passed by Senator Stabenow that bans oil and gas drilling in the Great Lakes. “The economic and environmental significance of the Great Lakes cannot be overstated,” Stabenow wrote. “Our Great Lakes are the largest surface freshwater system on Earth, supply drinking water to over 40 million people, and sustain a $6 trillion economy and over 50 million jobs. Given the existing ban on drilling and the importance of the Great Lakes, I call on you to reverse course and oppose any efforts to open our waters to oil and gas drilling as a result of your recent Executive Order.” The full text of Senator Stabenow’s letter may be found below. June 20, 2018 The Honorable Donald Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As co-chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force, one of my top priorities is protecting the Great Lakes. In fact, the first legislation I passed into law as a U.S. Senator banned oil and gas drilling in the Great Lakes, a ban that we made permanent in 2005. That is why I am writing to question the impact of your “Executive Order Regarding the Ocean Policy to Advance the Economic, Security, and Environmental Interests of the United States.” This Executive Order can be interpreted as an attempt to reverse current law and open the Great Lakes to oil and gas drilling. This executive order, as well as your continued attempts to zero out funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative despite bipartisan support in Congress, are a direct attack on our Michigan way of life. The economic and environmental significance of the Great Lakes cannot be overstated. Our Great Lakes are the largest surface freshwater system on Earth, supply drinking water to over 40 million people, and sustain a $6 trillion economy and over 50 million jobs. Given the existing ban on drilling and the importance of the Great Lakes, I call on you to reverse course and oppose any efforts to open our waters to oil and gas drilling as a result of your recent Executive Order. I ask for your prompt response.
06.19.2018	Stabenow Votes for Senate Passage of National Defense Authorization Act Bill includes important priorities for Michigan, including a pay raise for our troops Tuesday, June 19, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) voted in favor of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the Senate by a margin of 85-10. The bill now heads to conference with the House of Representatives. “This bill makes a big investment in Michigan’s defense industry and gives a pay raise to our troops,” said Senator Stabenow. “We also made important progress towards upgrading the Soo Locks and increased support to address the growing problem of PFAS chemical contamination in Michigan and across the country. PFAS chemicals were used for decades in firefighting foams and now many communities in Michigan are uncovering alarmingly high levels of PFAS in their soil, ground, and drinking water.” The 2019 National Defense Authorization Act includes important provisions to support our troops and Michigan’s defense industry, including: A 2.6 percent pay raise for our men and women in uniform. $144 million in funding for A-10 fighter jet wing replacement. This funding will help keep A-10s operational and support the squadron at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. $190 million to develop a Next Generation Combat Vehicle prototype. The Detroit Arsenal in Warren, which includes TARDEC (the United States Army Tank Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Center), will develop this prototype in collaboration with defense industry stakeholders. Language urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite completion of an economic assessment that is needed to construct a second, Poe-sized lock at the Soo Locks. The bill also includes important provisions to address PFAS contamination, including: Requiring the Department of Veterans Affairs to maintain a registry of veterans who may have been exposed to PFAS chemicals and to notify these veterans of developments in the study and treatment of PFAS related conditions. Authorizing $10 million to fund the second year of a health study on the impacts of PFAS exposure, which is critical to establishing stronger federal standards for PFAS. Stabenow recently secured $10 million to fund the first year of the study. Increasing funding to address PFAS contamination by $25 million, including $15 million for the National Guard.
06.14.2018	Michigan Leaders Agree: Senator Stabenow’s Bipartisan Farm Bill is a Win for Michigan Thursday, June 14, 2018 Today, Michigan agricultural, conservation, healthy food and business groups widely praised the bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill, co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry. The Farm Bill passed the Senate Agriculture Committee on a strong bipartisan vote of 20-1 on Wednesday, June 13, 2018. The bipartisan bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies and providing healthy food for families. Stabenow co-authored the bill with Agriculture Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), titled the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. Serving as Chairwoman in 2014, Stabenow authored the current Farm Bill, which is set to expire in September 2018. Carl Bednarski, President of the Michigan Farm Bureau, said: “Michigan Farm Bureau applauds yesterday’s passage of the Farm Bill by the Senate Agriculture Committee. We appreciate Ranking Member Debbie Stabenow and Chairman Pat Roberts for bringing the Farm Bill forward and with bipartisan cooperation. We stand ready to help them get the bill through the Senate and to the President’s desk ahead of the September 30 deadline. Michigan farmers critically need the certainty the Farm Bill provides, especially in this time of low commodity prices.” Jim Byrum, President of the Michigan Agri-Business Association, said: “Passage of a new Farm Bill is critical for farmers, families, businesses and communities across Michigan, and we applaud Senator Debbie Stabenow and Senator Pat Roberts for once again teaming up to get a commonsense, bipartisan Farm Bill underway. We truly appreciate the bipartisan cooperation shown by Senator Stabenow, Senator Roberts and their colleagues to put good ideas on the table and move forward a Farm Bill that ensures a strong and productive Michigan agriculture sector, while working within current budget limits and safeguarding taxpayer dollars.” Diane Smith, Executive Director of the Michigan Apple Committee, said: “The programs of the farm bill have contributed significantly to the success of the Michigan Apple industry and the entire state, supporting production from its beginnings in orchard rows in Michigan to consumers’ plates across the world. Senator Stabenow has once again been a champion for our industry!” Ken Nobis, President of the Michigan Milk Producers Association, said: “The dairy industry is Michigan’s largest agriculture commodity and a significant contributor to our state’s economy. Many dairy farmers are currently struggling through a prolonged period of depressed milk prices so the enhancements made to the dairy section of the Farm Bill is welcome news. Having an improved dairy safety net and greater access to risk management tools will benefit all size dairy producers in Michigan and throughout the U.S. We are grateful for Senator Stabenow’s leadership in working with Senator Pat Roberts to craft a bipartisan agreement that addresses the deficiencies found in the 2014 version of the Farm Bill and incorporates some new features such as a new milk donation initiative. As Michigan’s dairy industry positions itself for additional milk processing capacity, the provisions in the Senate Farm Bill will provide much needed enhancements for producers to rely on. “ Dennis West, President of Northern Initiatives, said: “The Farm Bill’s rural development initiatives are essential to the growth and development of rural small businesses across the state. It’s great news that this Farm Bill will expand important investments for rural communities – particularly for rural high-speed internet, which is vital to help businesses launch, grow and succeed. I appreciate Senator Stabenow’s continued leadership for rural Michigan.” Rich Bowman, Director of Government Relations, The Nature Conservancy: “For years, the Farm Bill has been the single largest source of federal conservation incentives for Farmers, ranchers and forest landowners and The Bill introduced in the Senate this week carries on that proud tradition. The Nature Conservancy looks forward to working with Senator Stabenow and her colleagues in Congress to get this legislation passed and implemented for the benefit of our fish and wildlife, our Great Lakes and the conservation minded landowners who are our neighbors here in Michigan and across the country.” Nick Babcock, President of Michigan Farmer Veteran Coalition, said: The Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 will expand resources, assistance and training to military Veterans in the agriculture community. This will help Michigan’s Veteran population flourish in our state’s highly diverse agriculture sector, while providing an opportunity to continue serving our great nation. The steadfast support by Senator Stabenow to Agriculture and the Veteran community is greatly appreciated. Oran Hesterman, Founder and CEO of Fair Food Network, the organization behind the Double Up Food Bucks program, said: “I applaud the leadership of Senator Stabenow for helping secure an impressive bi-partisan bill that will generate real returns for Michigan farmers and families. Once again, she has demonstrated her steadfast commitment to Michigan agriculture alongside those most vulnerable.” Phil Korson, Executive Director of the Michigan Cherry Marketing Institute, said: “Michigan’s cherry industry is incredibly important to our state’s agricultural economy. The Farm Bill makes important strides for specialty crops that will help our farmers grow and sell their cherries here at home and abroad. We appreciate the work Senator Stabenow has done as a champion for Michigan cherry growers.” Gildo Tori, Director of Public Policy for Ducks Unlimited Great Lakes/Atlantic Region, said: "Ducks Unlimited thanks Ranking Member Senator Stabenow and Chairman Roberts for their work on a bipartisan, conservation-friendly Farm Bill. Senator Stabenow’s leadership in support of the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program and Regional Cooperative Conservation Program ensures that Michigan farmers, landowners, sportsmen and conservationists will yield great -benefits from this new Farm Bill.” Jim Zook, Executive Director of the Michigan Corn Growers Association, said: “Michigan’s corn farmers are facing mounting economic uncertainty created by five years of low commodity prices and increased disruptions to our markets. Now more than ever, we need a strong farm bill that maintains vital farm programs, including reliable risk management tools and export market development programs. Getting a new farm bill signed into law is a top priority for Michigan’s corn farmers and we thank Senator Stabenow for her continued leadership on this issue.” Val Vail-Shirey, Executive Director of the Michigan Greenhouse Growers Council, said: “Michigan Greenhouse Growers Council is delighted with the inclusion of greenhouses in the 2018 Farm Bill. Insurance and indemnity for greenhouses are two issues that MGGC has prioritized to accomplish. We are pleased with the dedication and working relationship we have experienced with Senator Debbie Stabenow and her staff to help Michigan greenhouse farmers. Having the same insurance indemnity opportunities as other commodities is essential to maintain the greenhouse industry in Michigan. The greenhouse and nursery industry is the 4th largest commodity in Michigan and ranks 3rd in the country. Michigan Greenhouse Growers Council commends Senator Stabenow, ranking member of The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry and Senator Pat Roberts, chair, in their ability to work in a bi-partisan effort and move forward the 2018 Farm Bill.” Glen Chown, Executive Director of Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy, said: "Farmland preservation boosts our economy, protects scenic views, ensures food security and safeguards a way of life here in Michigan. Senator Stabenow has worked tirelessly to secure vital funding that permanently preserves critical farms throughout the state, from the West Michigan Fruit Belt to urbanizing areas in central and southern Michigan. We are so grateful for her incredible leadership not just for Michigan, but for her work in preserving farms and ranches across the country." Dave Armstrong, President and CEO of GreenStone Farm Credit Services, said: “We appreciate the leadership Senator Stabenow is once again taking in the drafting of a comprehensive, bi-partisan farm bill, says Dave Armstrong, President and CEO of GreenStone Farm Credit Services. “Farmers in Michigan, and all across the country, need a strong and reliable farm bill providing them stability in these unstable times. We are specifically encouraged by the Senator’s efforts to include a strong crop insurance program in the legislation. Crop Insurance is a vital tool for all farmers providing them protection against conditions outside their control. Programs like this, along with conservation programs and expanding foreign trade, provide a safety net for a stable and reliable food supply in this country – which is something that benefits all Americans.” Lisa Fought, Senior Rural Development Specialist of Michigan Rural Community Assistance Program (RCAP), said: "On behalf of the RCAP network and rural communities across the State of Michigan, we are grateful for Senator Stabenow's continued support of the Farm Bill and the Rural Development Title. Programs funded under this program are helping rural communities in Michigan and across the country access technical assistance to strengthen infrastructure and community facilities, address contamination issues, and access funding for critical infrastructure upgrades for water and wastewater facilities, thus ensuring the protection of public health. We look forward to working with Senator Stabenow now and in the future to continue the support of rural communities." Tim Neumann, President of Michigan Rural Water Association, said: “The Farm Bill is very important and critical to Rural America and we appreciate Senator Stabenow's continued support with this Farm Bill. Small and rural communities have more difficulty affording public water and wastewater service due to lack of population density and lack of economies of scale. Likewise rural communities have a harder time complying with the Safe Drinking Water Act and Clean Water Act due to lack of technical resources and funding that is so critical to the infrastructure in small communities. The Farm Billl provides a solution to the lack of technical resources by providing this critical infrastructure funding in rural communities and also establishing programs providing technical experts in the areas of water, wastewater and source water protection in each state to be shared by all small and rural communities in need. These specialist are people with expertise in water and wastewater treatment operation, maintenance, governance and compliance who constantly travels the state to be available on-site to any community in need of assistance.” Ron Hendrick, Dean of Michigan State University’s College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, said: “Educating future generations to meet growing demands and discovering and sharing advancements that will benefit our state, the nation and the world is of crucial importance. Agriculture is America’s oldest career, and today it is arguably one of the most complex, technology-driven, knowledge-based industries in the world. The Farm Bill provides critical support for maintaining our core agricultural strengths, while also looking to invest in the challenges of the future. We applaud Senator Stabenow for her leadership and commitment to advancing a 2018 Farm Bill that supports this vital sector of our nation’s economy.”
06.13.2018	Senate Agriculture Committee Passes Stabenow’s Bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill Wednesday, June 13, 2018 Today, the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry approved Ranking Member Debbie Stabenow’s 2018 Farm Bill by a wide bipartisan margin, 20-1. The bipartisan bill strongly supports Michigan’s farmers and agricultural economy, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The bill also has a major impact in protecting Michigan’s Great Lakes, investing in our small towns and rural communities, promoting Michigan forestry, supporting local food economies and providing healthy food for families. “The 2018 Farm Bill is a bipartisan victory that has Michigan on every page,” said Senator Stabenow. “In order to support our state’s diverse agricultural economy, I worked across party lines to deliver a strong bill that will provide certainty for Michigan farmers, families, and rural communities.” Stabenow co-authored the bill with Agriculture Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), titled the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. Serving as Chairwoman in 2014, Stabenow authored the current Farm Bill, which is set to expire in September 2018. A summary of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 follows: The Bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill The bipartisan Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, also known as the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, will support the one in four jobs related to food and agriculture in Michigan. It will provide five years of certainty for Michigan’s farmers, fuel opportunity in rural communities and grow small businesses. It continues historic investments in land, water and wildlife conservation, will grow Michigan local food economies, and will support families working hard to make ends meet. The Farm Bill expires on September 30th, which is why our farmers, families, and rural communities need a comprehensive five-year Farm Bill now. The Farm Bill is a Jobs Bill The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill fuels economic opportunity and job growth both on and off the farm in small towns and cities alike. It creates certainty – not just for farmers and farm workers, but also for equipment manufacturers, food processing businesses, retailers, and many other employers across Michigan. One in four jobs in Michigan are supported by agriculture, which is the state’s second-largest industry. The food and agriculture sector contributes $101.2 billion to Michigan’s economy annually. Support for bio-based manufacturing creates rural and urban manufacturing jobs by using Michigan-grown crops like corn and soybeans to make biofuels and Michigan-made goods like seat cushions and steering wheels. Clean energy and efficiency upgrades help small businesses and farmers invest in wind and solar technologies that lower utility bills and support energy installation jobs in Michigan. Rural economic development initiatives attract new employers to Michigan’s small towns and rural communities through Main Street infrastructure improvements and expanded access to high-speed internet. Forest management and innovation supports 30,000 Michigan forestry jobs, including loggers and mill workers in northern Michigan and the UP, all while finding new uses for Michigan-grown wood in manufacturing and building construction. Support for farmers markets and food hubs help family farmers and local businesses sell locally grown food and made-in-Michigan products to families, schools, and restaurants, driving the local food economy. The Farm Bill Supports Michigan Farmers From bad weather to volatile markets, farming is one of the riskiest businesses out there – which is why farmers need a strong safety net. The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill equips Michigan farmers with risk management tools that help them stay afloat during unexpected disasters, while also allowing them to tap into new markets to boost their bottom line. Strong risk management tools make it easier for farmers to protect their farms, including expanded crop insurance and risk management options for Michigan farmers who grow crops like apples, cherries, and hops. Improvements for dairy farmers spearheaded by Senator Stabenow include a new, affordable, and flexible safety net called Dairy Risk Coverage, and a new milk donation initiative to encourage dairy farmers to donate milk to Michigan food banks. The bill will also refund premiums for dairy farmers who purchased coverage under the former Margin Protection Program, which did not live up to expectations. Support for specialty crop growers, which Senator Stabenow first authored in a new title in the 2008 Farm Bill to strengthen Michigan’s diverse fruit and vegetable industry, increases productivity and drives demand for the food they grow. New help for beginning farmers, veterans, and urban agriculture creates opportunities to expand Michigan’s diverse agricultural economy and builds the bench to support the future of Michigan agriculture. Strengthened support for organic agriculture protects the integrity of Michigan organic products and helps farmers transition into a fast-growing and profitable sector of agriculture. Investments in agricultural research support the ground-breaking science and technology research being done at Michigan State University, fueling innovation and safeguarding Michigan’s agricultural economy. Strengthened export opportunities will continue to help countless Michigan farmers and small businesses find new global markets for their goods. The Farm Bill Protects the Great Lakes and Supports Outdoor Recreation The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill continues to be one of the most significant investments in the conservation of land, water, and our Michigan way of life. Through targeted conservation efforts, the Farm Bill protects our Great Lakes and rivers, while preserving wildlife habitat to support hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreation. Successful regional conservation partnerships are strengthened to provide greater flexibility for farmers and partners leading regional projects that protect the Great Lakes and improve wildlife habitat for hunting and fishing. Support for farmer-led conservation helps farms reduce nutrient runoff into the rivers and streams that feed into Lake Erie and Saginaw Bay while maintaining productive farms. New hunting and fishing opportunities are created by adding new acres to the Conservation Reserve Program and expanding public access on private land in Michigan for outdoor recreation. Recreation and wildlife habitat in Michigan’s National Forests are strengthened through U.S. Forest Service partnerships with landowners, industry, and the state. The Farm Bill Strengthens Michigan’s Small Towns and Rural Communities Michigan’s small towns and rural communities need real resources to thrive in the 21st Century. The bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill has made critical investments to spur economic development and improve the quality of life for families. Investments to strengthen rural water infrastructure helps Michigan families and businesses access clean drinking water and targeted support addresses harmful contaminants like PFAS. Resources to fight the opioid epidemic will expand telemedicine and treatment facilities in rural Michigan communities. Expanded high-speed internet will help to connect nearly 1 million people in rural Michigan who lack access. Support for rural businesses, which has already invested $322 million in nearly 1,000 Michigan businesses, fuels manufacturing, rural entrepreneurship, and the revitalization of main streets. Community facility investments will continue to build hospitals, improve schools, and strengthen fire and police stations in small towns across Michigan. Strengthening Integrity and Food Access for Families Just as the farm bill provides a safety net for Michigan farmers, it also includes a safety net for Michigan families. While the 2014 Farm bill has resulted in savings of $80 billion dollars from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the bipartisan 2018 Senate Farm Bill makes key improvements to further strengthen the integrity of the program, while still preserving critical food access for families. Stronger oversight of SNAP to ensure every SNAP dollar is getting to families in need. New job training opportunities will help SNAP participants find and keep good-paying jobs. Permanent investments for “Double Up” bucks will help SNAP families purchase Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. Reduced paperwork for seniors makes accessing food assistance easier for grandparents on fixed incomes. “Farm to Food Bank” initiative will provide healthy, Michigan-grown foods to families, while reducing food waste.
06.06.2018	Stabenow Introduces Legislation Requiring Trump Administration to Release Buy American Reports Wednesday, June 06, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced the Keep Buying American Act of 2018 (S. 3006) requiring the federal agencies covered by President Trump’s April 2017 Buy American executive order to publicly release reports on how they are complying with our nation’s Buy American laws. These reports should contain recommendations to strengthen compliance with Buy American laws to protect American workers and manufacturers. They are not currently available to the public or to Members of Congress. U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tina Smith (D-MN), and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) cosponsored today’s legislation. “Our Michigan workers and manufacturers can out-build, out-work, and out-think anyone but they need a level playing field to succeed,” said Senator Stabenow. “The public has a right to see these reports that will show if our Buy American laws are working, and if they’re not, what actions we need to take to strengthen them.” In May 2018, Senator Stabenow called on President Trump to immediately release the Buy American reports called for in his executive order. The Commerce Department has confirmed that the reports have been submitted to the White House, but the agency has no obligation to release them to the public. Stabenow has championed efforts to strengthen our nation’s Buy American laws and last year introduced legislation to close loopholes in current requirements and hold federal agencies accountable by ensuring they are purchasing products made in the U.S. She also called on President Trump to follow Buy America requirements in any federal infrastructure proposal.
06.05.2018	Senator Stabenow Visits Small Businesses in Dearborn Tuesday, June 05, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Dearborn as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with the business owners at Dearborn Fresh Supermarket, New Yasmeen Bakery and Qahwah House. Stabenow’s tour has included over 140 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston, Roseville, Montague, Whitehall, Berrien Springs, Dearborn and Cheboygan. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Dearborn is no exception.” "It was an honor and a delight to have Senator Debbie Stabenow in our store as I, the customers and the employees were elated by her presence,” said Kal Turfah, Owner of Dearborn Fresh Supermarket. “We are touched by her consideration and interest of the community and we appreciate the time she took to learn about our business. We hope Senator Debbie Stabenow enjoyed her tour of Dearborn Fresh Supermarket, we wish to see her again soon.”
06.05.2018	Senator Stabenow Visits Small Business in Cheboygan Tuesday, June 05, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Cheboygan as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with the business owners at U.S. Ski Pole Company which is the only manufacturer of 100% carbon fiber ski poles in the United States. Stabenow’s tour has included over 140 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston, Roseville, Montague, Whitehall, Berrien Springs, Dearborn and Cheboygan. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Cheboygan is no exception.” “We appreciate Senator Stabenow stopping in to our facility in Cheboygan to follow up with further support,” said Roger Liebner, Owner of U.S. Ski Pole Company. “Her support in Washington is a very valuable resource for us as well as other small businesses throughout Michigan.”
06.05.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Over $97 Million in Federal Funds to Make Much-Needed Upgrades to Mound Road Tuesday, June 05, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced over $97 million in federal funding to make critical upgrades to Mound Road, an 18-mile corridor that is vital to the economy and the defense sector in Southeast Michigan. In total, $217 million is needed to rehabilitate Mound Road. “Repairing Mound Road is not only critical to public safety but is also vital for commerce and Southeast Michigan’s defense corridor,” said Senator Stabenow. “I have worked closely with Macomb County Executive Mark Hackel and local officials to urge Secretary Chao to provide the funding that is needed to repair this road. Our efforts demonstrate, once again, that when we work together, we can get things done for Michigan families.” “This grant award is significant for two reasons. First, it provides us with the needed funding to invest in our region's number one need: fixing our infrastructure," said County Executive Mark A. Hackel. "It also strengthens Macomb County's position as a leader in mobility. Special thanks to our federal legislators, especially Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressmen Mitchell and Levin, for their bipartisan support of this project." The Mound Road corridor is home to many major employers and over 81,000 jobs in the manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, and defense sectors. Mound Road recently marked 30 years in service, surpassing the average roadway life expectancy of 25 years. Macomb County is currently spending $3-4 million every year on maintenance and repairs.
05.24.2018	Senator Stabenow Praises New Support for Michigan Cherry Growers New USDA action, urged by Stabenow, will strengthen Michigan’s cherry industry and provide more nutritious fruit to schools and food banks Thursday, May 24, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announcement of new support for Michigan’s tart cherry industry. Senator Stabenow has urged the USDA to take action to help Michigan cherry growers, who have recently faced uncertainty from unfair trade practices by other countries. “In Michigan, we grow more tart cherries than any state in the country,” said Senator Stabenow. “While there’s still more work to do to level the playing field for our producers, this new support is an important step to help our cherry growers weather an unfair trade imbalance.” Recently, countries like Turkey have dumped cherry products into domestic markets, creating a trade imbalance that has threatened the success of Michigan’s cherry industry. The USDA announced a bonus buy purchase to protect cherry growers from the rise in unfair foreign competition. The cherries purchased will go to food banks and school meals, providing families and students with nutritious fruit. “This is a very big deal for the Tart Cherry Industry,” said Phil Korson, President of the Cherry Marketing Institute. “As we have struggled to deal with cheap imports, our domestic inventories have increased, which have depressed our growers’ prices. This purchase will help remove some of that surplus inventory and put more money back in growers’ pockets. We appreciate the leadership from Senator Stabenow and our elected officials to help us get this over the finish line.” Senator Stabenow has long been a champion for Michigan cherry growers and has led the effort to provide relief from trade imbalances. Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow urged Agriculture Secretary Perdue to take action to protect Michigan’s cherry industry from unfair competition and raised the issue again with him at a committee hearing last month. While the purchase is an important first step to reducing the impact of the imbalance, trade officials need to address the issue long term. In conversations with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Chief Agricultural Negotiator Gregg Doud, Senator Stabenow has pressed them to accept cherry growers’ petition to revoke Turkey’s unfair duty-free access to the U.S. market.
05.23.2018	Senate Passes Stabenow Legislation to Improve Veterans Choice Program Wednesday, May 23, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that legislation she authored to improve veterans’ health care by requiring prompt payment to Veterans Choice Program providers passed the Senate as part of the VA Mission Act. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for signature. Passage of this legislation is one of Stabenow’s latest actions to improve care, which also include championing efforts to open new and expanded VA clinics across Michigan and expanding health services for service members and veterans. “The Veterans Choice program was designed to make sure veterans can receive services close to home in a timely way but it has failed many of those it was intended to serve,” said Senator Stabenow. “We are taking an important step today to reform the Choice Program and improve care for our men and women who have served.” “Munson Healthcare is committed to serving the healthcare needs of the veterans in our region,” said Edwin A. Ness, President and CEO, Munson Healthcare. “Unfortunately, unlike other veteran programs, the Veterans Choice Program has resulted in confusion for veterans and significant non-payment for healthcare providers. Therefore, we are pleased to see Senator Stabenow’s Veterans Deserve Better Act language included in The Mission Act that we hope will improve access to care for veterans while also holding private contractors accountable for prompt payments to providers.” The VA Mission Act includes a key provision from Stabenow’s Veterans Deserve Better Act, which required the VA to pay providers within 30 days of receiving an electronic claim or 45 days of receiving a paper claim. This will ensure that rural hospitals and providers are reimbursed for services so that they can continue to see patients. Stabenow has been holding a series of roundtable discussions with veterans and service providers across Michigan to get their input on how programs serving veterans are working and provide an update on her latest work to support veterans and their families. Stabenow has met with veterans in Iron Mountain, Traverse City, Muskegon, Benton Harbor, Saginaw, Detroit, Berkley, Swartz Creek, Lansing, Warren, and Taylor.
05.16.2018	Stabenow Helps Lead Successful Effort to Reinstate Net Neutrality, Preserve Free and Open Internet for Michigan Families and Businesses Wednesday, May 16, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), a leader in the fight to save equal access to the internet, today voted for the Senate resolution to reinstate net neutrality rules that guarantee free and open access to the internet for all Americans. The resolution passed the Senate by a margin of 52-47 and now heads to the House for consideration. “Internet access is not a luxury for people in Michigan; it’s a necessity,” said Senator Stabenow. “Small businesses and farmers shouldn’t have to pay more to sell their products online. Students shouldn’t be put at a disadvantage because the internet in their hometown is slower than somewhere else in the country. Following the Senate’s action today, I’m calling on the House to act now and pass this resolution reinstating net neutrality protections.” In December 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal the Open Internet Order, also known as net neutrality, which prohibited internet service providers from blocking, slowing down, or discriminating against content online. Senator Stabenow sponsored the resolution that the Senate passed today to reinstate net neutrality.
05.16.2018	Stabenow, Peters Call for Trump Administration to Release Study on Health Effects of PFAS Chemicals Wednesday, May 16, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today called on the Trump Administration to release a study on the health effects of perfluoroakyl substances (PFAS) chemicals. Recent news reports indicate that Trump Administration officials intervened in order to delay release of the study, which reportedly concludes that PFAS chemicals pose a danger to human health at a far lower level than the Environmental Protection Agency has previously said was safe. “If this report is accurate and administration officials sought to suppress release of critical public health information in the interest of avoiding a “public relations nightmare,” it is an unacceptable failure of leadership and a failure to protect public health,” the Senators wrote. “Given the scope of the contamination nationwide and the ongoing exposure of communities across the United States to these chemicals, it is imperative that the public receive an opportunity to review the [Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry] report,” the Senators continued. “Therefore, we request that you release the draft report immediately. We also request that you provide our offices with all internal documents and communications in your agency’s possession regarding any internal deliberations or discussion about this report within 10 business days.” PFAS chemicals were used for decades in firefighting foam. Now, a growing number of communities across Michigan are uncovering alarmingly high levels of PFAS in soil, ground, and drinking water. In addition to Stabenow and Peters, U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tom Carper (D-DE), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Ed Markey (D-MA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Patty Murray (D-WA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) also signed the letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney. The full text of the letter may be found below. May 15, 2018 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney, We are writing in response to a troubling report that officials from the White House, Office of Management and Budget, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Department of Defense (DOD) intervened in order to delay the release of a study by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) concerning the health effects of perfluoroakyl substances (PFAS). The unreleased HHS assessment reportedly concludes that those chemicals pose a danger to human health at a far lower level than EPA has previously said was safe. If this report is accurate and administration officials sought to suppress release of critical public health information in the interest of avoiding a “public relations nightmare,” it is an unacceptable failure of leadership and a failure to protect public health. Perfluoroalkyl substances, or PFAS, are a class of toxic chemicals affecting communities across the nation. These chemical substances are linked to certain cancers and other serious adverse health effects. They are often used to manufacture products like fabric protectors, firefighting foam, and stain repellents due to rigorous chemical properties that also make them persistent in the environment and resistant to degradation. ATSDR is directed by Congressional mandate to perform specific functions concerning the effect on public health of hazardous substances in the environment, including health consultations concerning specific hazardous substances. According to internal EPA emails that were released to the Union of Concerned Scientists under the Freedom of Information Act, on January 30, 2018, a political appointee who oversees environmental issues at the White House Office of Management and Budget, forwarded an email from another White House aide about the ATSDR’s PFAS report to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) top financial officer, which stated: “The public, media, and Congressional reaction to these numbers is going to be huge…The impact to EPA and DoD is going to be extremely painful. We (DoD and EPA) cannot seem to get ATSDR to realize the potential public relations nightmare this is going to be.” The ATSDR report still has not been publicly released. Given the scope of the contamination nationwide and the ongoing exposure of communities across the United States to these chemicals, it is imperative that the public receive an opportunity to review the ATSDR report. Therefore, we request that you release the draft report immediately. We also request that you provide our offices with all internal documents and communications in your agency’s possession regarding any internal deliberations or discussion about this report within 10 business days. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to receiving your response soon.
05.11.2018	Stabenow, Peters Raise Concerns over Defense Department Response to Water Contamination across Michigan Friday, May 11, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters raised concerns with the Department of Defense’s response to water contaminated from per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) at and around defense installations across Michigan. PFAS chemicals were used for decades in firefighting foam. Now a growing number of active and decommissioned military installations across Michigan are uncovering alarmingly high levels of PFAS, including Wurtsmith, Camp Grayling, KI Sawyer, Selfridge, Alpena Combat Readiness Training Center, Escanaba Defense Fuel Supply Point, Battle Creek, Grand Ledge, and Kincheloe. “While we appreciate the challenges of addressing emerging contaminants such as PFAS, as well as the costs the military faces in addressing environmental contamination at bases throughout the United States, we are concerned about the pace at which the Department is proceeding to address contamination across Michigan,” the Senators wrote. “In addition, it has come to our attention that the Department may be considering changing its policy on compliance with individual state drinking and surface water standards for some contaminants, including PFAS. “We would have great concern if in fact the Department or any of the individual branches were considering this action,” the Senators continued. “Communities in Michigan are not at fault for the release of these harmful contaminants, and it is imperative that the Department do whatever is necessary to address the public health and environmental risks associated with exposure to these chemicals.” Stabenow and Peters have repeatedly pushed the Department of Defense to address contamination in drinking water. In the 2018 Appropriations Bill, they secured $10 million to fund a health study on the impacts of PFAS exposure, which is critically needed to establish stronger federal standards defining safety levels for PFAS exposure. They also increased funding for the Department of Defense to investigate and clean up contamination at active and decommissioned military bases. The full text of the Senators’ letter to Defense Secretary James Mattis may be found below. May 10, 2018 The Honorable James Mattis Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, D.C. 22202 Dear Secretary Mattis: We write to express our concerns with the Department of Defense’s response to addressing groundwater and surface water contaminated by per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) at and around defense installations across Michigan. Expedited action is needed to address these contaminants that pose a threat to human health and the environment. PFAS are chemicals used in firefighting foams at military bases around the country with impacts to human health that are not well understood. Studies have associated PFAS exposure to cancer, as well as thyroid, kidney, reproductive, and heart issues. In the Fiscal Year 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, Congress included $310 million for environmental remediation at Base Realignment and Closure bases, $54 million above from the previous fiscal year. The bill report specifies that this additional funding should be used to address PFAS contaminated sites. In addition, the Army Guard base maintenance account also received $40 million more than the previous fiscal year’s level, which can be used for investigating and remediating PFAS contamination. In 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) established new lifetime health advisories for two types of PFAS – perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) – to assist federal, state, tribal and local officials with protecting public health when these chemicals are present in the drinking water. In addition, the State of Michigan’s cleanup criteria for groundwater protective of drinking water was established on January 10, 2018. Furthermore, the State of Michigan has Water Quality Standards that apply to both surface waters and to groundwater venting to surface waters. Michigan regulations specify that water quality standards shall be met in all waters of the state, and that these standards sufficiently protect both human and aquatic health. PFOA and PFOS have been discovered in and around multiple active and decommissioned military installations across Michigan, including: Wurtsmith; Camp Grayling; KI Sawyer; Selfridge; Alpena Combat Readiness Training Center; Escanaba Defense Fuel Supply Point; Battle Creek; Grand Ledge; and Kincheloe. The State of Michigan has estimated that it will cost upwards of $335 million to investigate and address initial remediation actions at sites near the bases at which the contamination originated. It is imperative that the Department of Defense comply with Michigan’s water quality standards and cleanup criteria and stop the movement of contamination from military installations into groundwater and surface waters. While we appreciate the challenges of addressing emerging contaminants such as PFAS, as well as the costs the military faces in addressing environmental contamination at bases throughout the United States, we are concerned about the pace at which the Department is proceeding to address contamination across Michigan. In addition, it has come to our attention that the Department may be considering changing its policy on compliance with individual state drinking and surface water standards for some contaminants, including PFAS. We would have great concern if in fact the Department or any of the individual branches were considering this action. Communities in Michigan are not at fault for the release of these harmful contaminants, and it is imperative that the Department do whatever is necessary to address the public health and environmental risks associated with exposure to these chemicals. We look forward to receiving your response on the Department’s near- and long-term plans to address these public health and environmental problems in Michigan. In addition, we would also ask that you provide additional clarity on whether the Department is considering changing its policy on compliance with state drinking and surface water standards for PFOA and PFOS. Thank you for your consideration of these requests.
05.11.2018	Senator Stabenow Delivers Weekly Democratic Address on Prescription Drugs Friday, May 11, 2018 The Weekly Democratic Address is available in both audio and video format. You may download the audio of the address HERE and view the video of the address HERE. Stabenow’s remarks as delivered follows: “Today, President Trump is scheduled to speak about the need to fight rising prescription drug prices and that’s a good thing. But you and your family don’t need more words. You need more action. Democrats believe that health care is a basic human right, and that includes the ability to afford your prescriptions. As we know, for many people, this is a matter of life and death. Unfortunately, the pricing of prescription drugs is the ultimate example of a rigged system in my home state of Michigan as well as all across the country. We have more pharmaceutical and health product lobbyists than for any other industry – 1,488 lobbyists last year! That’s almost 15 for every member of the United States Senate. And their job is to stop competition and to keep prices high. And they made sure that Big Pharma was a huge winner in the Republican tax giveaway. Because of it, they have been able to put $50 billion, $50 billion, into the pockets of their CEOs and big investors through stock buybacks. But I don’t know even one person who’s seen the cost of their prescriptions go down. It’s time to unrig the system. And Democrats are taking the lead on a number of important policies that will bring prices down. I’d like to touch on three actions that could bring your costs down right away: First is our legislation to allow Medicare to use its group purchasing power to negotiate the lowest drug prices. Currently, Medicare isn’t allowed to negotiate the best price for you and your family. And frankly that’s ridiculous! It’s time to harness the bargaining power of 41 million American seniors to bring down prescription drug costs. Second, we are committed to unrigging the system by ensuring that you and your family are paying the lowest possible price at the pharmacy. Many times customers have no idea that a prescription to treat diabetes or high blood pressure or cancer might cost less if you pay out of pocket instead of paying the co-pay on your insurance. I have talked to people who have told me they could pay only $8 out of pocket instead of $20 or $50 or $100 using the copay through their insurance. And that’s because often pharmacists are banned by contracts from telling their customers that they could save money by paying out of pocket. After Michigan Pharmacists brought this to my attention, I introduced legislation with other Senators to ban these ‘gag clauses.’ It’s just plain wrong! And a study released this year says that people are paying more than they need to .....23% of the time. And finally, we’re pushing President Trump to immediately lower the cost of naloxone. This lifesaving drug that is used to reverse opioid overdoses has been around for more than 45 years and could be purchased for $1 in 2005. Yet thanks to the rigged system, as the need has gone up … as the opioid crisis has gone up ... the cost has gone up ... and up! One version now costs more than $4,000! I urge President Trump to listen to his own Commission on the Opioid Crisis, which recommended empowering the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate the lowest possible price for naloxone and do it now. Democrats promise to keep doing everything we can to bring down the cost of the medications you need. It’s time for our Republican colleagues to join us.”
05.10.2018	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Support Michigan Farmer Veterans The Farmer Veteran Opportunity Act of 2018 would streamline requirements to increase eligibility and expand support for Michigan veterans in agriculture Thursday, May 10, 2018 Today, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry joined committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) to introduce new legislation that expands support for Michigan veterans in agriculture. The Farmer Veteran Opportunity Act of 2018 makes all new veterans eligible for support from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The bill also improves access for Michigan farmer veterans across eight existing initiatives to make risk management tools more affordable, expand access to land and capital, and prioritize training for veterans. “Agriculture offers Michigan veterans rewarding careers and the opportunity to continue serving our nation by feeding our families,” said Senator Stabenow. “After putting their lives on the line, our veterans should be first in line for support that can help them find jobs in farming and grow their agricultural businesses.” “When our veterans retire from active service, whether here or abroad, they need certainty and opportunity,” said Senator Roberts. “I’m proud to cosponsor a bill that allows men and women who have served our country to return to the farm.” The legislation expands support to all new veterans who may have existing careers in agriculture. Currently, the USDA’s veterans initiatives are designed to support those who are starting a career in agriculture for the first time. This common-sense change ensures that all new farmer veterans will be able to benefit from support, whether they are just starting a career on the farm or looking to expand their operation. Additionally, the bill would help farmer veterans receive better assistance from existing farm programs, including more-affordable risk management tools like crop insurance to help them recover from unexpected losses. Because many farmer veterans also face barriers to accessing land and capital to start or expand their farms, the legislation would make farmer veterans eligible for down payment loans when purchasing real estate and would provide priority access for reduced interest rates on loans to buy farmland or finance production equipment. Veterans would also receive priority access for additional training and education opportunities to help them navigate their crop insurance options and meet food safety standards. The Farmer Veteran Opportunity Act of 2018 builds on a number of provisions in the current Farm Bill championed by Senator Stabenow to strengthen support for farmer veterans. For the first time, the Farm Bill created a Military Veteran Agricultural Liaison position to advocate for farmer veterans at the USDA. In order to help farmer veterans overcome the barriers many new farmers face, the Farm Bill prioritized veteran access to training resources and financing through short-term, low-interest loans. The bill also made it easier to participate in voluntary conservation initiatives. The bipartisan bill is supported by the both the Farmer Veteran Coalition and the Farmer Veteran Coalition of Michigan, in addition to Michigan Farm Bureau, American Farm Bureau Federation, National Farmers Union, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, and Iraq And Afghanistan Veterans Of America. Nick Babcock, President, Farmer Veteran Coalition of Michigan: “Agriculture allows our veterans to continue serving our country by growing the food on our plates and the fuel in our vehicles. Senator Stabenow is a true champion for Michigan’s farmer veterans and I appreciate her work to connect veterans like me with opportunities on the farm.” John Kran, National Legislative Counsel, Michigan Farm Bureau: “Michigan Farm Bureau applauds Ranking Member Debbie Stabenow for introducing legislation to help our farmer veteran community. Whether returning to the farm or starting out on their own, it’s important farmer veterans can access the tools they need. From crop insurance and low interest loans, to food safety training and risk management education, these programs are all extremely helpful in building and maintaining successful businesses.” Patrick Murray, Associate Director, Veterans of Foreign Wars: “The VFW is proud to support this important piece of legislation that would provide relief, assistance and empowerment for our Veteran Farmers across the country. We applaud Senators Stabenow and Roberts for their continuing efforts to aid veterans and their pursuit of meaningful careers in agriculture.” Tom Porter, Legislative Director, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America: "Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America strongly commends Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Pat Roberts for introducing the Farmer Veteran Opportunity Act, to increase opportunities for veterans to succeed in agriculture careers. America's military veterans are entrepreneurial and motivated to succeed, and this legislation takes concrete steps to further empower them."
05.10.2018	Stabenow, Peters Urge President Trump to Follow Through on Commitment to Modernize Soo Locks Thursday, May 10, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) called on President Trump to follow through on his commitment to modernize the aging Soo Locks. They urged his Administration to complete a critical economic assessment that is necessary for Congress to fund an upgrade of the locks and to support the funding necessary to maintain the lock system before construction of a new lock is completed. “The Soo Locks facility currently consists of four parallel locks: the Poe, the MacArthur, the Sabin, and the Davis. However, only the Poe and MacArthur locks are operational,” the Senators wrote. “At Congressional direction, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) is currently conducting an Economic Reevaluation Report to analyze the benefits and costs of constructing an additional Poe-sized lock…To help enable Congress to fund this critically important project, it is imperative that the Army Corps and the Office of Management and Budget provide an accurate evaluation of this project’s importance to the nation’s economy. We welcome any leadership that you can provide to see that this occurs. “Even with sufficient funding and an economic analysis that accurately reflects the importance of building another Poe-sized lock, it will be many years before this construction project is completed,” the Senators continued. “In the intervening years, the Army Corps needs sufficient funding to ensure the existing lock complex remains operational and open for commerce… Going forward, we ask that the White House support the funding needed to maintain the lock system before and as construction of an additional lock is underway.” Since taking office, President Trump’s proposed budgets have severely underfunded the Soo Locks. While the Army Corps’ Detroit District reports that $23.2 million is required in FY2018 for operation and maintenance costs of the Soo Lock, the Administration’s budget only contained $8.9 million. Additionally, the Administration’s FY2019 budget request contains $21 million less than the Army Corps deems necessary to maintain the Soo Locks. Approximately 80 million tons of iron ore, coal, stone, grain, and other commercial commodities pass through the locks annually but there have been no comprehensive improvements to the Soo Locks facility in nearly 50 years. In 2017, Senators Stabenow and Peters and Representative Jack Bergman (MI-01) introduced the bipartisan Soo Locks Modernization Act to authorize the necessary level of funding to construct another Poe-sized lock. The full text of the Senators’ letter to President Trump may be found below. May 9, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: We write to express appreciation for your recent comments about modernizing the Soo Locks and to reiterate our willingness to work with you on this vital project. To that end, we respectfully offer the following suggestions on ways that your leadership could help advance this infrastructure project that is critical to Michigan’s and the nation’s economy, employment, and manufacturing sectors. Twinning the Soo Locks The Soo Locks facility currently consists of four parallel locks: the Poe, the MacArthur, the Sabin, and the Davis. However, only the Poe and MacArthur locks are operational, and only the 1,200-foot Poe is of sufficient size for the passage of the vessels that carry seventy percent of all iron ore between Lake Superior and the lower Great Lakes. It is for this reason that an unscheduled outage of the Poe Lock would devastate the regional and the national economies, harm our manufacturing sector, and threaten our national security. According to a report conducted by the Department of Homeland Security, a 6-month closure of the nearly 50-year old Poe Lock would result in a 75% decrease in Great Lakes steel production, and nearly all North American appliance, automobile, railcar, and construction, farm, and mining equipment production to cease. Millions of jobs and billions of dollars in economic activity would be lost. At Congressional direction, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) is currently conducting an Economic Reevaluation Report to analyze the benefits and costs of constructing an additional Poe-sized lock, correcting errors in the Army Corps’ original analysis. To help enable Congress to fund this critically important project, it is imperative that the Army Corps and the Office of Management and Budget provide an accurate evaluation of this project’s importance to the nation’s economy. We welcome any leadership that you can provide to see that this occurs. In addition, we hope that your administration will request the necessary funding for this project to proceed in the coming the fiscal years. Near-term operations and maintenance funding Even with sufficient funding and an economic analysis that accurately reflects the importance of building another Poe-sized lock, it will be many years before this construction project is completed. In the intervening years, the Army Corps needs sufficient funding to ensure the existing lock complex remains operational and open for commerce. Unfortunately, funding in the Administration’s FY2018 and FY2019 budgets fell far short of the funding that is required. According to the Army Corps’ Detroit District, $23.2 million is required in FY2018 for operation and maintenance costs for the Soo Locks complex. However, the Administration’s budget only contained $8.9 million. We would hope that following the enactment of the recent omnibus appropriations bill, the Army Corps’ work plan for this year would be adjusted to fill this funding gap. In addition, the Administration’s FY2019 budget request contains $21 million less than the Army Corps deems necessary to maintain the Soo Locks. We will work with our Congressional colleagues to provide sufficient funding in FY2019. Going forward, we ask that the White House support the funding needed to maintain the lock system before and as construction of an additional lock is underway. Thank you again for highlighting the importance of the Soo Locks to Michigan and to the entire country. We hope to work with you, your Administration, and our colleagues in the Senate and the House to advance this critically important infrastructure project.
05.09.2018	Senator Stabenow Calls on Trump Administration to Immediately Release Buy American Report Wednesday, May 09, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today called on the Trump Administration to immediately release the Buy American report mandated in President Trump’s executive order signed on April 18, 2017. The report, which should contain recommendations to strengthen implementation of Buy American laws to protect American workers and manufacturers, was supposed to be completed by November 24, 2017. “Even though the deadline for completion was not met, I understand that the report was recently finished but is not accessible to the public,” wrote Senator Stabenow. “I urge you to release the report so the public can better understand how Buy American laws are being implemented and what actions Congress can take to uphold Buy American laws that support American manufacturing and workers.” Stabenow has championed efforts to strengthen our nation’s Buy American laws and last year introduced legislation to close loopholes in the current requirements and hold federal agencies accountable by ensuring they are purchasing products made in the U.S. She also called on President Trump to follow Buy America requirements in any federal infrastructure proposal. The full text of Senator Stabenow’s letter to President Trump may be found below. May 9, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, I write to ask that your administration immediately release the Buy American report mandated in the “Buy American Hire American” executive order signed on April 18, 2017. This report was supposed to be completed by November 24, 2017 and submitted to the White House. Even though the deadline for completion was not met, I understand that the report was recently finished but is not accessible to the public. While your executive order does not explicitly say the Secretary of Commerce must release the Buy American report, I urge you to release the report so the public can better understand how Buy American laws are being implemented and what actions Congress can take to uphold Buy American laws that support American manufacturing and workers. Your executive order was a step toward ensuring that federal procurement funds are used to purchase American-made products and support domestic workers by mandating a government-wide assessment of Buy American compliance. Furthermore, the report should contain recommendations to strengthen implementation of Buy American laws. I sincerely hope you will work with me on this important matter. I look forward to your prompt response.
05.08.2018	Stabenow, Peters Raise Alarm over Secretary DeVos Actions to Restore Federal Recognition of Failed For-Profit Accrediting Organization Tuesday, May 08, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today raised alarm over recent actions by the Department of Education to restore the federal recognition of failed for-profit accrediting organization, the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges (ACICS). ACICS gave its stamp of approval to unscrupulous for-profit colleges like ITT Tech and Corinthian Colleges, which defrauded thousands of students in Michigan and left them saddled with debt. “Even with this staggering evidence against ACICS, recently released emails under the Freedom of Information Act have shown that your Department is giving preferential treatment to ACICS and is quietly assisting the embattled accreditor with its application for renewal,” wrote the Senators. “This development is extremely troubling, given that the Department is now conducting a new review of ACICS and has invalidated the previous decision to deny recognition. “We urge you to side with Michigan students and taxpayers by denying ACICS’s petition to be a federally recognized accrediting agency,” the Senators continued. “You have a responsibility to uphold the integrity of our country’s higher education system.” The full text of the Senators’ letter to Secretary Betsy DeVos may be found below. May 8, 2018 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: We write to express strong concern over your recent action to restore the federal recognition of the failed for-profit accreditor, the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools (ACICS). In Michigan, ACICS gave its stamp of approval to some of the most unscrupulous for-profit colleges. Former ACICS-accredited institutions, including ITT Educational Services, Inc. (“ITT Tech”) and Corinthian Colleges, Inc. (“Corinthian”), left Michigan students saddled with debt and worthless credits and degrees, while costing taxpayers billions of dollars when these institutions collapsed. Given ACICS’s clear record of failure to oversee these institutions, we request that the U.S. Department of Education (“Department”) deny ACICS’s petition to be a federally recognized accrediting agency. Accreditation is critical to ensuring that only quality institutions are educating our nation’s students. Federally recognized accreditors act as the gatekeepers for colleges and universities seeking to participate in federal student aid programs. Furthermore, certification from a federally recognized accreditor is a signal to potential students and the public that an institution has met rigorous standards and can provide a quality education that will set students on a path toward a rewarding career. Unfortunately, ACICS utterly failed at its primary duty by accrediting now-defunct institutions, such as Corinthian and ITT Tech. In our state of Michigan, Corinthian operated campuses in Dearborn, Detroit, Grand Rapids, Kalamazoo, and Southfield, enrolling over 5,000 students the year Corinthian collapsed. The Department found that Corinthian defrauded students by falsifying job placement data, and reported that over 12,000 former Corinthian students in Michigan were eligible to file for loan relief through borrower defense to repayment. Following Corinthian’s collapse, another ACICS-accredited institution-ITT Tech- was also investigated for deceptive practices and ultimately closed operations, leaving students in Michigan scrambling to transfer their credits to another institution or apply for loan relief through the Department. Both Corinthian and ITT Tech had been collectively investigated or sued by more than 20 state attorneys general, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Justice, and the Department of Education for misrepresenting job placement rates and attendance records, suspect recruitment practices, and deceptive advertising in the years leading up to their collapse. The Department also found that ACICS renewed the accreditation of another institution based in Michigan despite previously finding evidence of fraud and misappropriation of millions of dollars in federal student aid funds. These continued lapses in oversight and the harm caused to Michigan students is more than sufficient evidence to demonstrate that ACICS is not an accrediting agency worthy of the public’s trust. Even with this staggering evidence against ACICS, recently released emails under the Freedom of Information Act have shown that your Department is giving preferential treatment to ACICS and is quietly assisting the embattled accreditor with its application for renewal. This development is extremely troubling, given that the Department is now conducting a new review of ACICS and has invalidated the previous decision to deny recognition. We urge you to side with Michigan students and taxpayers by denying ACICS’s petition to be a federally recognized accrediting agency. You have a responsibility to uphold the integrity of our country’s higher education system. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your prompt response.
05.04.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Federal Support for Howard City Fire Department Friday, May 04, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced new federal support for the Howard City Fire Department. The Village of Howard City's Fire Department will receive $12,000 to purchase new radios, turnout gear, hoses and other equipment that will help protect more than 1,800 local residents. "Emergency responders need reliable equipment to protect our families, homes, and businesses," said Senator Stabenow. “This funding will help Howard City’s Fire Department better serve our community safely and efficiently.” This investment comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facilities Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure needs in rural communities in Michigan and across the country. The current Farm Bill, which Senator Stabenow authored, made this grant possible.
05.04.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces New Support for West Branch and Hampton Township Police Departments Friday, May 04, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced new federal support for the West Branch and Hampton Township Police Departments. The West Branch Police Department will receive $25,900 and the Hampton Township Police Department will receive $14,000 to help purchase new patrol vehicles. "Emergency responders in our rural communities need to travel many miles to protect our families, homes, and businesses," said Senator Stabenow. “This new funding will help these departments better serve their communities safely and efficiently.” These investments come through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facilities Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure needs in rural communities in Michigan and across the country. The current Farm Bill, which Senator Stabenow authored, made these grants possible.
05.04.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces New Support for Public Health and Safety in the Upper Peninsula Friday, May 04, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced new federal support to help fund the purchase of new patrol vehicles in Houghton and Iron County and new radiology equipment at Munising Hospital. Munising Memorial Hospital in Alger County will receive $28,000 to purchase new radiology equipment to improve medical services for UP residents. The City of Houghton Police Department will receive $19,000 and the Iron County Sheriff’s Office will receive $22,000 to purchase new patrol vehicles. "Hospitals and first responders throughout the UP are on the front lines in caring for our families and keeping our communities safe," said Stabenow. “This new funding will help improve public health and safety for families across the UP.” These investments come through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facilities Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure needs in rural communities in Michigan and across the country. The current Farm Bill, which Senator Stabenow authored, made these grants possible.
05.01.2018	Stabenow, Peters Lead Bipartisan Call for Full Funding for Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in Next Year’s Spending Bill Tuesday, May 01, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, led a bipartisan group of Senators in calling for full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to be included in the fiscal year 2019 federal funding bill. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which has provided more than $600 million in funding to Michigan, is critical to cleaning up the Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways and fighting Asian carp. More than 700,000 Michigan jobs, or one in five in the state, are tied to water. “We are requesting full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) at $300 million,” wrote the Senators. “As you are aware, the President’s FY2019 budget request cut funding for the GLRI by 90% after proposing to eliminate funding for the program in the FY2018 budget request. We are concerned that these proposed cuts will reverse the progress that has been made to protect and improve the Great Lakes, the world’s largest freshwater body, which supplies drinking water to millions of people and contributes billions of dollars to the economy each year. We appreciate your past support of the GLRI and look forward to working with you to ensure that the program remains fully funded.” In addition to Stabenow and Peters, U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-OH), co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and Vice-Chair Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), along with members of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tina Smith (D-MN), and Bob Casey (D-PA) sent their request to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Chairman Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Ranking Member Tom Udall (D-NM). Full text of the letter can be found below and here. Dear Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Udall: As the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies considers FY2019 appropriations requests, we are requesting full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) at $300 million. As you are aware, the President’s FY2019 budget request cut funding for the GLRI by 90% after proposing to eliminate funding for the program in the FY2018 budget request. We are concerned that these proposed cuts will reverse the progress that has been made to protect and improve the Great Lakes, the world’s largest freshwater body, which supplies drinking water to millions of people and contributes billions of dollars to the economy each year. In December 2016, Congress reauthorized GLRI as part of the Waster Infrastructure Improvements for the Nations Act (P.L. 114-322) for five years at $300 million. With your help, Congress has consistently fully funded GLRI since its inception in 2010. Most recently, H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 (P.L. 115-141), fully funded GLRI despite the President’s budget request to eliminate funding for the program. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is the largest investment in the Great Lakes’ health, ecosystem, and water quality. Since its inception in 2010, $1.6 billion has been used to fund over 3,000 projects to combat the greatest threats to the Great Lakes, including invasive species, harmful algal blooms and loss of fish and wildlife habitats. The program has leveraged more than $475 million in nonfederal dollars from a wide range of partners, including nonprofit organizations, states, communities, educational institutions, and private companies. In targeting Areas of Concern, the program has successfully addressed problems that directly impact the public health and safety including beach closings, restrictions on fish and wildlife consumption, dredging restrictions, and problems with drinking water taste, odor and consumption. The Great Lakes provide drinking water for 40 million people, contribute $10 billion in tourism each year, and support hundreds of thousands of jobs across the region. We appreciate your past support of the GLRI and look forward to working with you to ensure that the program remains fully funded. Thank you for your consideration of our request. ###
04.18.2018	Stabenow, Peters Call on Administration to Take Immediate Action to Reduce Price of Naloxone, a Life-Saving Opioid Overdose Reversal Drug Wednesday, April 18, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today led 14 of their colleagues in calling on the Department of Health and Human Services to take immediate action to reduce the price of naloxone, a life-saving opioid overdose reversal drug. The Senators’ letter follows a recent national advisory issued by the United States Surgeon General urging more Americans to keep on hand and learn how to use naloxone delivery devices. In 2016, Michigan had the eighth most deaths of any state in the country and over 2,000 people lost their lives from a drug overdose. “No police officer, no firefighter, no public health provider, and no person should be unable to save a life because of the high price,” wrote the lawmakers. “By bringing down the cost, we can get this life-saving drug in the hands of more people as called for by the Surgeon General. Doing so will save countless lives.” “The Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis recommended empowering the HHS Secretary to negotiate reduced pricing, and in October 2017 19 Senators wrote in support of this policy,” the lawmakers continued. “To date, no such action has been taken by HHS. We urge HHS to immediately negotiate a lower price for easy to administer naloxone combination products. In addition, we ask you to ensure affordable coverage for individuals with health insurance, including Medicare, Medicaid, and individual and employer sponsored plans.” U.S. Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Tina Smith (D-MN), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Angus King (I-ME), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) signed Stabenow and Peters’ letter to HHS Secretary Alex Azar. The full text of the letter may be found below. April 18, 2018 The Honorable Alex Azar Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Azar: We write to ask the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to take immediate action to increase access and reduce the price of naloxone auto-injectors and nasal sprays; life-saving opioid overdose reversal products. We believe that every individual, municipality, and entity that wants to equip themselves with these products should be able to afford to. The opioid epidemic claimed the lives of 42,249 Americans in 2016 – about 115 Americans every day. Drug overdoses are now the leading cause of death for Americans under 50, exceeding the peak car crash and H.I.V. deaths. Unfortunately, despite the progress health care providers, first responders, state governments, and others have made in fighting the epidemic, data from the CDC suggests that the problem is still getting worse, as there were more than 45,000 deaths from August 2017 to August 2018. As you know, United States Surgeon General Dr. Jerome M. Adams issued a national advisory urging more Americans to keep on hand and learn how to use naloxone delivery devices. He states that, “increasing the availability and targeted distribution of naloxone is a critical component of our efforts to reduce opioid-related overdose deaths and, when combined with the availability of effective treatment, to ending the opioid epidemic.” We strongly agree. Unfortunately, despite being approved by the FDA more than 45 years ago, the price of naloxone has increased dramatically during the epidemic. The prices of the two user-friendly devices that can be administered outside of a health care setting are the highest. Narcan, which delivers naloxone as a nasal spray, costs $150 for a two pack and Evzio, a hand-held auto-injector, increased in price from $690 in 2014 to more than $4,000 today for a two pack. Such high prices are already leaving local fire, police, and health departments struggling to afford naloxone, and many Americans will want to follow the Surgeon General’s advisory only to realize they are unable to afford the drug that could save their own life or the life of someone they know. The Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis recommended empowering the HHS Secretary to negotiate reduced pricing, and in October 2017 19 Senators wrote in support of this policy. To date, no such action has been taken by HHS. We urge HHS to immediately negotiate a lower price for easy to administer naloxone combination products. In addition, we ask you to ensure affordable coverage for individuals with health insurance, including Medicare, Medicaid, and individual and employer sponsored plans. No police officer, no firefighter, no public health provider, and no person should be unable to save a life because of the high price. By bringing down the cost, we can get this life-saving drug in the hands of more people as called for by the Surgeon General. Doing so will save countless lives.
04.16.2018	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Berrien Springs Monday, April 16, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Berrien Springs as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Lemon Creek Winery and Zick’s Specialty Meats. Stabenow’s tour has included over 140 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston, Roseville, Montague, Whitehall and Berrien Springs. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Berrien Springs is no exception.”
04.13.2018	Senator Stabenow Statement on Line 5 Friday, April 13, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on Line 5: "The reported damage to Line 5 in the Straits is very disturbing. A visual inspection must be completed to confirm that the safety and integrity of the line was not compromised. Line 5 should not operate until we know it's safe."
04.10.2018	Senator Stabenow Introduces the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act Tuesday, April 10, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) introduced the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act of 2018, S. 2637, which will improve maternity care for women and newborns. The United States has the worst rate of maternal deaths in the developed world and one of the highest rates of infant mortality. Michigan has the 17th highest rate of infant mortality in the country, with 6.68 infant deaths per 1,000 births. “We all have a stake in keeping moms and babies healthy,” said Senator Stabenow. “My bill makes sure moms and babies get the best care possible from the doctor’s office to the delivery room.” “The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act will make a real difference in the lives of moms and babies by helping to ensure every pregnant woman and infant gets the highest quality care possible,” stated March of Dimes President Stacey D. Stewart. “March of Dimes strongly supports this effort to increase the quality of perinatal health care, and we look forward to its swift enactment.” “Not enough women and infants in the United States are getting the high-quality health care they need and deserve. The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act would help give more maternity care providers the necessary tools to deliver the best possible care while maximizing the value of our health care dollars,” said Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women & Families. “We applaud Senator Stabenow for reintroducing this bill in the Senate and for her unwavering commitment to improving the health of women and families, and we urge the Senate to prioritize its passage this year.” “The goal of every obstetrician-gynecologist is a healthy outcome for both mother and baby. To that end, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) is pleased to support the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act,” said ACOG President Haywood L. Brown, MD. “Rates of maternal mortality and severe morbidity are rising in the United States and we know that half of these maternal deaths can be prevented. The U.S. also has an unacceptably high rate of infant mortality with preterm birth being a significant contributor. That is why it is imperative that we invest in locally-relevant improvements to maternity care, like perinatal quality collaboratives. These collaboratives are an important tool to help make sure that evidence-based practice recommendations — from reducing early elective deliveries and cesareans, to treating women struggling with substance use disorder -- are implemented in a way that truly improves care for women. ACOG thanks Senator Stabenow for her leadership on the issue of improving maternal health, and looks forward to working with both chambers of Congress to advance this bill into law.” The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act of 2018 will improve maternity care for women and newborns by holding Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program accountable through higher quality standards. Medicaid currently has a set of guidelines for pediatric and adult care but no specific standards for maternity and infant care. The legislation will also provide funding for care quality partnerships that will bring together states, health care providers, insurance companies, and other stakeholders to develop and carry out new strategies to improve maternity and infant care. U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) joined Stabenow to introduce the legislation.
04.10.2018	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Montague and Whitehall Tuesday, April 10, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Montague and Whitehall as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at The Book Nook & Java Shop while in Montague before continuing to Colby’s Hokey Pokey and The Lewis House Bed and Breakfast in Whitehall. During her visit, Stabenow was joined by Amy VanLoon, the Executive Director of the White Lake Area Chamber of Commerce. Stabenow’s tour has included over 140 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston, Roseville, Montague and Whitehall. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Montague and Whitehall are no exception.” “We are honored to have Senator Stabenow visit Montague and Whitehall and we were eager to share with her what we have to offer here in the White Lake Area,” said Amy VanLoon, Executive Director of the White Lake Area Chamber of Commerce. “Personal face to face interaction with our small businesses is a great opportunity for both the legislator and the business owners and we appreciate her time and interest in our community.” “It was a pleasure meeting Debbie – not only was it clear that she brings heart and soul to her work for Michigan, I enjoyed playing ‘Heart and Soul’ and some boogie-woogie with her on piano,” said Bryan Uecker, Owner of The Book Nook & Java Shop. “I appreciate her commitment to small business and especially her efforts to keep Lake Michigan healthy and clean which is the lifeblood of the West Michigan shoreline communities.” “It was great having Senator Stabenow visit our shop,” said Gretchen Jacobson, Owner of Colby’s Hokey Pokey. “It really means a lot to be able to show her all the hard work we have put into making and growing our business and to know that she is out there fighting for all us small business owners in Whitehall and all over Michigan.” “It was an honor for Greg and me to have Senator Stabenow visit our B&B! We enjoyed giving her a tour of our historic home and talk about the nature of our business,” said Debi Hillebrand, Mayor of Whitehall and Owner of The Lewis House Bed and Breakfast. “Senator Stabenow knows that small businesses like the Lewis House Bed and Breakfast help make small towns special. We only wish she could have stayed for breakfast!”
04.03.2018	Senator Stabenow Applauds Progress to Provide Relief for Michigan Dairy Farmers Tuesday, April 03, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) announcement allowing Michigan dairy farmers to sign up for much-needed support through the new-and-improved Margin Protection Program. Stabenow secured the new assistance for dairy farmers in the recent Bipartisan Budget Act, which offers retroactive coverage to the beginning of the year. The recent improvements are designed to help protect Michigan’s dairy producers from market instability and unexpected losses. “After experiencing tough times, Michigan dairy farmers are eager for relief,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today’s announcement will allow our dairy farmers to sign up for new-and-improved coverage that will protect them from losses outside of their control and provide certainty for their businesses and our agricultural economy.” Dairy is Michigan’s top commodity, supporting 40,000 jobs and contributing over $15 billion to the state’s economy. Unfortunately, recent market instability has hurt Michigan’s dairy industry, causing many family dairy farms to take on additional debt or even go out of business. While the current Farm Bill created several new risk management tools to protect farmers from unexpected losses, the tool for dairy farmers did not work as intended due to last minute budget cuts and implementation problems at USDA. Since 2014, dairy farmers have struggled with market uncertainty without a reliable safety net. Over the last year, Senator Stabenow has made fixing the dairy safety net one of her top priorities. In the recent Bipartisan Budget Act, she worked with Senate Appropriations leaders to make improvements for agriculture and led the effort to provide immediate relief for dairy producers. Senator Stabenow secured support for Michigan’s dairy farmers by fixing problems with the old Margin Protection Program and providing farmers with the opportunity to sign up for 2018 coverage, which was announced today. The legislation also provides a pathway for additional support through new customizable insurance tools, and sets the stage for additional improvements in the Farm Bill. Since the passage of the dairy improvements in the Bipartisan Budget Act on February 9, 2018, Senator Stabenow has pushed USDA to implement the changes so Michigan dairy farmers could take advantage of the new support. Last month, Senator Stabenow wrote to Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to urge the USDA to carry out the new changes quickly and consistently.
04.02.2018	Stabenow Announces VA is Moving Forward with Building of New Health Clinic in Traverse City Monday, April 02, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has selected a site and will be moving forward with the construction of a new expanded health clinic in Traverse City. The expanded clinic will be approximately 22,000 square feet and will help alleviate crowding at the current clinic. Plans for the expansion of the VA health clinic in Traverse City have been in the works for years. Stabenow spoke to former VA Secretary, David Shulkin, in November about the long delay in moving forward with construction and pushed him to take action. He made a commitment to her that a site selection decision would be made by the end of March. The outgoing Secretary met his commitment by making this site selection decision before his departure. “Making sure our veterans in Northern Michigan and across the state can get basic health care services without traveling long distances has been a top priority of mine,” said Senator Stabenow. “The construction of this expanded clinic has been caught up in bureaucracy for years. Today’s news moves us one step closer to more veterans getting the care they need and deserve.” The current VA clinic in Traverse City provides health care services for thousands of Northern Michigan veterans every year, including primary care, women’s health, disease prevention and telehealth services. Once constructed, a new facility will also offer mental health, physical therapy and home-based primary care services. Senators Stabenow and Peters passed a law to name the new clinic after Army Colonel Demas T. Craw, a Traverse City-area native and Medal of Honor recipient, who fought in both World War I and II. Senator Stabenow has helped lead the effort to open new and expanded VA clinics across the state, including in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Cheboygan County, Grayling, Oscoda, and Wyoming.
03.29.2018	Stabenow Unveils New Legislation to Lower Cost of Prescription Drugs Thursday, March 29, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) unveiled new legislation aimed at lowering the cost of prescription drugs during events across the state in Detroit, Flint, Lansing, Grand Rapids, Ishpeming, and Traverse City. Americans pay – by far – the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. Prices for the most popular brand-name drugs have risen 208% from 2008 to 2016, according to AARP. “I continue to stand up to the drug lobbyists and special interests because it is morally wrong to keep prices for your medications so high,” said Senator Stabenow. “The passage of my legislation would make a major difference for Michigan families.” Pharmaceutial and health product lobbying reached $279 million last year, more than any other industry. Stabenow is announcing three pieces of legislation that will combat rising prescription drug costs: The bipartisan Know the Lowest Price Act (S.2553) cracks down on outrageous gag clauses that stop pharmacists from telling customers that they could pay less for their prescription if they pay out of pocket. The Empowering Medicare Seniors to Negotiate Drug Prices Act (S.1688) would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to directly negotiate with drug companies for price discounts of their drugs, which is banned under current law. And the Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act (S. 469) authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to issue regulations permitting wholesalers, licensed U.S. pharmacies, and individuals to import drugs from licensed Canadian sellers that are manufactured at facilities inspected by the Food and Drug Administration. Currently, Americans pay about 40 percent more on prescriptions per person than Canadians do. More details on Senator Stabenow’s prescription drugs legislation may be found here. "Michigan pharmacists are active members of the community and are committed to providing quality care to our patients and their families," said Larry Wagenknecht, CEO of the Michigan Pharmacists Association. “We support Senator Stabenow's Know the Lowest Price Act, because our pharmacists should never be prohibited from helping patients pay less to get the prescriptions they need.” "I have had three unique cancers, all unrelated, and also the BRAC2 gene, which makes me a good candidate for the new targeted cancer drugs that are very costly,” said Cindy Welc, a 65-year-old retired teacher from Bingham Farms. “I started paying only $25, but this drug costs so much that I hit my insurance cap after only seven months. It now costs $2,000 per month out of pocket. No one should have to pay that much for medicine that is keeping them alive. I am so thankful to Senator Stabenow for taking action to lower prescription drug costs for everyone.” “I am required to take two different eye drops daily, and the cost of each has escalated to a point where it has become cost-prohibitive,” said Sidney Fox, a 78-year-old resident of Walled Lake. “Lumigan costs $308 monthly and Alphagon $246 monthly. In my mind, this represents nothing short of price gouging by the pharmaceutical companies. I genuinely appreciate Senator Stabenow’s efforts to address these issues.” “I rely on prescription medications to treat my high blood pressure,” said Susan Marlow, a resident of Clio. “They were very expensive and made it difficult for me to cover expenses such as groceries, housing, and other needs. I’m delighted Senator Stabenow is introducing this legislation to make prescription drugs cheaper. It will help people like me in Michigan.” “As a doctor who has treated patients across Genesee County, I know the high cost of prescription drugs is a huge problem,” said Dr. Huda Elhwairis, who practices at Hamilton Community Health Network in Flint. “We need to make sure patients can actually afford the life-saving medication they need. I want to thank Senator Stabenow for her legislation that will help lower the cost for seniors and families.” “Michigan pharmacists are active members of the community and are committed to providing quality care to our patients and their families,” said Larry Wagenknecht, CEO of the Michigan Pharmacists Association. “We support Senator Stabenow's Know the Lowest Price Act, because our pharmacists should never be prohibited from helping patients pay less to get the prescriptions they need.” “The Know the Lowest Price Act is one important step that everyone can agree on to help address the issue of rising prescription drug prices,” said Stacey Pearl, Pharm. D, Director, Sparrow Pharmacy Plus. “Sparrow is absolutely committed to helping the region and patients receive the best quality care and that includes making sure they get the medicine they need at the most affordable price.” “I rely on prescription medication to stabilize my diabetes and prevent heart attacks,” said Linda Addis, a 69-year-old senior living in Lansing. “Last year, the price of just one of my medications tripled from $683 to $2,236 with zero warning. Another, my inhaler for asthma, went from $367 to $1,182. If I took all medications as prescribed, I would have reached the coverage gap for Medicare Part D at the end of February. I live on a fixed income of $900 in Social Security and $700 in pensions. I desperately need this medication and don’t know what else to do but to only take the expensive medications sparingly.” "Access to psychotropic, or mental health, medications is critical for all of those in our country with mental health needs,” said Robert Sheehan, CEO Community Mental Health Association of Michigan. “For many people, recovery and the maintenance of stable healthy relationships, meaningful employment, and academic success are contingent upon access to highly affective psychotropic medications. Access to these psychotropic medications is dependent on ensuring that the costs of these medications remain reasonable and that persons using these medications have the information needed to make decisions to keep these costs reasonable. We appreciate Senator Stabenow's longstanding leadership on these issues and her efforts to address the rising costs of prescription drugs.” “Senior Neighbors is excited to host Senator Stabenow as she announces important legislation to lower the price of prescription drugs,” said Robert Barnes, President of Senior Neighbors. “Our seniors depend on access to affordable medication and we welcome Senator Stabenow's proposals to bring down costs." “As a doctor who has treated patients across West Michigan, I know the high cost of prescription drugs is a huge problem,” said Dr. Thomas Platt, Cherry Health’s Chief Medical Officer and provider at Cherry Health’s Heart of the City Adult Medicine and Durham Clinic. “We need to make sure patients can actually afford the life-saving medication they need. I want to thank Senator Stabenow for her legislation that will help lower the cost for seniors and families.” “I take four medications to treat my asthma and back issues,” said Ben Abraham, a 64-year-old resident of Grand Rapids. “Because I live on a fixed income, it is very hard for me to pay for my medications and also cover my other needs. I’m glad Senator Stabenow is taking action to lower prescription drug costs for me and other people in Michigan.” “As pharmacists, we interact with patients and their families directly and want to do everything we can to make sure they get high quality, cost-effective care,” said Rebecca Maynard, PharmD, a Michigan pharmacist. “I appreciate that Senator Stabenow is working with pharmacists, patients, and providers to come up with a solution to the problem of astronomically high prescription drug costs.” “Ishpeming Senior Center is excited to host Senator Stabenow as she announces important legislation to lower the price of prescription drugs,” said Elyse Bertucci, Director of the Ishpeming Senior Center. “Our seniors depend on access to affordable medication and we welcome Senator Stabenow's proposals to bring down costs." “Michigan pharmacists are active members of our communities and are committed to providing quality care to our patients and their families,” said Tyler Jenema, PharmD and a Michigan pharmacist. “We support Senator Stabenow's Know the Lowest Price Act, because we should never be prohibited from helping our patients pay less to get the prescriptions they need.” “As the largest rural health care provider in the state, Munson Healthcare is concerned about the rising costs of pharmaceuticals and the impact these costs have on the patients we serve. Annually, prescription drug costs account for approximately 9 percent of Munson Healthcare’s operating expenses, with unanticipated price changes directly impacting the cost of care,” said Edwin A. Ness, president and CEO of Munson Healthcare. “We do our best to provide assistance to our patients to offset these costs, including participating in the successful 340B drug discount program, which provides more than $10 million in annual savings that are used to offset the cost of drugs as well as offer services not otherwise available in our region. Therefore, we support and thank Senator Stabenow for her efforts to address prescription drug costs at the national level and believe that if passed into law, this legislation would be good for the patients we serve.” "As a member of the Northern Michigan Diabetes Initiative, which seeks to reduce the prevalence of diabetes and improve the care people with diabetes receive, I have seen firsthand the impact that high drug costs have on patients with diabetes in our region. We know that for certain types of diabetes, including Type 2, pharmacologic interventions are sometimes necessary to treat patients,” said James Whelan, M.D., Munson Healthcare medical director of Population Health. "However rising drug costs, decreasing insurance coverage, and an aging population all combine to create challenges in treating diabetes in our region. Therefore, we see the need to advocate for affordable prescription drug prices as part of our overall strategy of improving health outcomes for diabetes patients in northern Michigan and believe that Senator Stabenow’s legislation will help with this effort."
03.26.2018	Senator Stabenow Applauds New Investment in Michigan State University Agricultural Research Monday, March 26, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement of $99,370 for Michigan State University agricultural research. This funding, which comes from the USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, will help Michigan State University conduct important economic research on crop insurance to identify ways to protect farmers against crop damage and income loss due to natural disasters such as floods and droughts. "Farming is a risky business,” said Senator Stabenow. “As a world-class leader in agricultural research, Michigan State is helping Michigan farmers make the most of this tool, both reducing risk and saving taxpayer dollars.” The current Farm Bill, which Senator Stabenow authored, included investments in agricultural research that made this study possible.
03.26.2018	Senator Stabenow Applauds New Investment in University of Michigan Agricultural Research Monday, March 26, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement of $100,000 for University of Michigan agricultural research. This research funding, which comes from the USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, will strengthen the nation’s biosecurity by testing the effectiveness of air filters in barns to protect livestock from airborne diseases. "There are an increasing number of biological threats to our nation’s food supply, like the threat of avian flu,” said Senator Stabenow. “As a world class bio-medical research institution, The University of Michigan is helping to protect our agricultural economy by preventing the spread of diseases in our livestock.” The current Farm Bill, which Senator Stabenow authored, included investments in agricultural research that made this study possible.
03.21.2018	Stabenow, Peters, Kildee Announce Funding to Address Drinking Water Contamination in Federal Budget Bill Wednesday, March 21, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) today announced that the proposed Fiscal Year 2018 budget bill includes funding to address ongoing drinking water contamination issues in communities across Michigan. The appropriations bill now goes before the full House and Senate. The lawmakers: Secured $10 million to fund a health study on the impacts of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) exposure, which is critically needed to establish stronger federal standards defining safety levels for PFAS exposure. Increased funding to investigate and clean up contamination at active and decommissioned military bases. The Department of Defense may use this funding to clean up contamination at bases across the country, including Michigan’s Wurtsmith Air Force Base, Camp Grayling, Selfridge Air National Guard Base, Alpena Combat Readiness Training Center, and Escanaba Defense Fuel Supply Point. Doubled the size of USDA Rural Development emergency water grants to eligible communities affected by drinking water contamination, from $500,000 to $1 million. This will allow eligible communities impacted by this crisis to qualify for double the funding to connect homes to municipal drinking water or build a water source, intake or treatment facility. “I’m deeply concerned about this growing problem and the number of families and service members who have been exposed,” said Senator Stabenow. “What’s even scarier is that we don’t know the full extent and long term impact of exposure to these chemicals. I’m fully committed to working with federal, state, and local partners on short- and long-term assistance for those who have been affected.” “Families, service members and veterans across Michigan face unknown health risks from exposure to contaminated water, and this health study is an important step towards understanding the potential impacts of these dangerous chemicals,” said Senator Peters. “I’m also pleased we were able to secure additional funding to begin to provide relief and help communities clean up contamination at known sites around the state. I’ll continue working with Senator Stabenow and Congressman Kildee to ensure that Michigan families have access to safe and reliable drinking water sources.” “Working with Senator Stabenow and Peters, we were able to include important investments in this bill to address drinking water contamination issues across Michigan,” said Congressman Kildee. “Funding a national health study about the dangers of PFAS contaminants will help ensure that veterans and residents exposed to the chemicals get the care they need. Additionally, doubling the size of federal emergency water grants for places like Oscoda will mean that communities can act more quickly to provide safe drinking water. I’m grateful to the entire Michigan delegation for their work to address this dangerous chemical.” Stabenow, Peters, and Kildee have repeatedly pushed the Department of Defense (DOD) to address contamination in drinking water. Peters worked to include language to authorize a health study in the National Defense Authorization Act, which became law in December 2017. Last month, the lawmakers joined a bipartisan group of members from the Michigan delegation and sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee and a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee asking for the study to be fully funded. In December 2017, the lawmakers also sent a letter encouraging a strong Environmental Protection Agency role to address water contamination across the state. PFAS chemicals were used for decades to make products resistant to oil and water. Now a growing number of communities across Michigan are uncovering alarmingly high levels of PFAS in soil, ground, and drinking water. For example, in the Belmont area, PFAS has leached into the water table from an old Wolverine Worldwide tannery dump. The company used the chemicals decades ago to waterproof the leather on shoes before improperly dumping the waste. Firefighting foam that contained some types of PFAS was also commonly used at military bases, exposing local residents and veterans living nearby. These substances break down very slowly in the environment and remain in the blood and organs of exposed humans and wildlife for years. Exposure to these chemical compounds is linked to cancer as well as thyroid, kidney, liver, and reproductive problems. This problem is of such severity that the State of Michigan recently created a PFAS Action Response Team.
03.21.2018	Stabenow Announces Full Restoration of Great Lakes Funding and Actions to Combat Asian Carp in Federal Budget Bill Wednesday, March 21, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today announced that the proposed Fiscal Year 2018 budget bill restores full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and requires the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to take near- and long-term actions to combat Asian carp. The budget now goes before the full House and Senate. “This budget bill includes important priorities for Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “It restores full funding for the Great Lakes and expedites action to combat Asian carp.” In spite of President Trump’s 2018 budget request that zeroed out funding for the Great Lakes, this year’s budget bill provides $300 million in federal funds for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which Senator Stabenow authored in 2010. This program, which has provided more than $600 million in funding to Michigan, is critical to cleaning up the Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways and fighting Asian carp. More than 700,000 Michigan jobs, or one in five in the state, are tied to water. Following calls from Senator Stabenow to speed up efforts to combat Asian carp, the Fiscal Year 2018 budget bill will require the Army Corps to make all reasonable effort to finalize the Brandon Road study by February 2019, the original deadline before the Trump Administration delayed the report. The bill also requires the Army Corps to take immediate steps that would reduce the chances of vessels in the Illinois River inadvertently transporting invasive species like Asian carp through the electric barrier.
03.20.2018	Stabenow, Peters Call on Small Business Administration to Take Action on State Request for Disaster Declaration in Flood-Damaged Communities Tuesday, March 20, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today called on the Small Business Administration to take action on the State of Michigan’s request to determine which Michigan counties affected by recent severe flooding may qualify for a federal disaster declaration. The Small Business Administration can provide low-interest loans to eligible residents and businesses so that they can repair and replace property and business assets that were damaged or destroyed. “Heavy rain and snow melts on February 19-21st significantly impacted individuals and businesses in Allegan, Arenac, Barry, Berrien, Cass, Clare, Eaton, Ingham, Ionia, Kalamazoo, Kent, Mecosta, Newaygo, Ogemaw, Oscoda, Ottawa and St. Joseph counties, in addition to the cities of Grand Rapids and Lansing,” the Senators wrote. “We urge you to move swiftly to perform the necessary damage assessments and provide any and all appropriate resources that would assist families and businesses in the affected areas in rebuilding.” The full text of the Senators’ letter may be found below. March 20, 2018 The Honorable Linda McMahon Small Business Administration 409 3rd St. SW Washington, D.C. 20416 Dear Administrator McMahon, We write to support Governor Rick Snyder’s March 13, 2018 request for the Small Business Administration to move forward in determining which Michigan counties qualify for physical and economic disaster declarations. Heavy rain and snow melts on February 19-21st significantly impacted individuals and businesses in Allegan, Arenac, Barry, Berrien, Cass, Clare, Eaton, Ingham, Ionia, Kalamazoo, Kent, Mecosta, Newaygo, Ogemaw, Oscoda, Ottawa and St. Joseph counties, in addition to the cities of Grand Rapids and Lansing. As a result of the widespread damage, Governor Snyder declared a state of disaster on March 12, 2018. Unfortunately, the resources needed to assist some of these impacted communities in the response and recovery efforts will likely exceed the capacity of the State and local governments. The Governor has requested that SBA conduct the necessary damage assessments so that SBA can move forward with making low-interest loans available to residents and businesses in these areas. These residents and businesses have been seriously impacted and need to repair or replace real estate, personal property, and business assets that were damaged or destroyed by the flooding. We urge you to move swiftly to perform the necessary damage assessments and provide any and all appropriate resources that would assist families and businesses in the affected areas in rebuilding.
03.13.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Development of Trail Loop around Belle Isle Park Tuesday, March 13, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $750,000 in federal funding, which will be matched by private investments, to develop a six-mile, multi-use loop trail around Belle Isle Park. The funding is provided by the National Park Service’s Land and Water Conservation Fund State & Local Assistance Program. “Belle Isle is a crown jewel in the City of Detroit.” said Senator Stabenow. “It’s exciting to see how this and other investments are making Belle Isle an even better destination for families in the city and across the region.” “Belle Isle gives families the opportunity to explore Michigan’s history and natural beauty on the international waters of the Detroit River,” said Senator Peters. “Thanks to this funding, the jewel of Detroit – Belle Isle – can continue to make upgrades to existing facilities, giving area families a vibrant state park and boosting the economy by attracting new visitors from around the country.” The Land and Water Conservation Fund State & Local Assistance Program provides matching grants for local and state park projects outside national park boundaries. Over 40,000 grants to states and localities have been approved under the LWCF grants program for acquisition, development, and planning of outdoor recreation opportunities in the United States. More information about the grant can be found at https://www.nps.gov/subjects/lwcf/stateside.htm.
03.08.2018	Stabenow, Peters Announce $3 Million for Improvements to Holly Road in Oakland County Thursday, March 08, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced the Road Commission for Oakland County will receive $3 million to make safety improvements to Holly Road. The grant will support efforts to resurface and address issues on approximately 4.5 miles on North Holly Road from Grange Hall Road to County Line Road. This two-lane rural road provides access to a regional hospital, a national cemetery and I-75. The project will include drainage improvements, cutting hills to improve sight distance, raising the road in flood zones and making adjustments to high speed curves. In October, Senators Stabenow and Peters wrote letters to U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao in support of the Department of Transportation – Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Grant (TIGER) application. “Anyone who drives in Michigan knows our roads are in desperate need of repair,” said Senator Stabenow. “These improvements will make this route safer for drivers across the region.” “Michigan businesses and families rely on safe and drivable roads to get around,” said Senator Peters. “This grant will help fund critically needed repairs for Holly Road, and in turn help support local businesses and continued economic growth for southeast Michigan.” “The highly competitive TIGER program recognizes projects that will have a significant impact on a region, metropolitan areas, or our country as a whole,” said U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine L. Chao.
02.28.2018	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Resolution to Reinstate Net Neutrality Only one more Republican Senator needed to overturn FCC decision and pass resolution in the Senate Wednesday, February 28, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters introduced a resolution to overturn the Federal Communications Commission’s decision to repeal net neutrality rules that ensure a free and open internet for all Americans. The resolution, which would fully restore the 2015 Open Internet Order, has the support of 50 members of the Senate, including Republican Senator Susan Collins. Only one more vote is needed for the Senate to take action. “Internet access isn’t a luxury for people in Michigan; it’s a necessity,” said Senator Stabenow. “High school students need the internet to do their homework at night, and small-business owners need it to sell their products. Just one more vote will keep the internet open and free.” “We live in an increasingly interconnected world, and access to an open internet is more vital than ever for Michigan small businesses, startups, students and job-seekers,” said Senator Peters. “I was very disappointed in the FCC’s decision to scrap net neutrality protections. This resolution would take steps to undo the FCC’s decision and help ensure the internet can continue being a hub for innovation and economic opportunity for everyone.” A copy of the resolution can be found HERE. Last week, the FCC’s rule repealing net neutrality was published in the Federal Register, leaving 60 legislative days for the Senate to vote to overturn the resolution. The FCC’s Open Internet Order prohibited internet service providers from blocking, slowing down, or discriminating against content online. Repealing these net neutrality rules could lead to higher prices for consumers, slower internet traffic, and even blocked websites. A recent poll showed that 83 percent of Americans do not approve of the FCC’s action to repeal net neutrality rules.
02.23.2018	Stabenow, Peters Urge Congress to Provide Funding for Critical Water Contamination Study Friday, February 23, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today urged the Senate Appropriations Committee to provide funding for a critical study on the health impacts of exposure to chemicals known as per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). In Michigan, residents across the state are dealing with the aftermath of finding unsafe levels of these chemicals in their lakes and drinking water. PFAS have been linked to cancer as well as thyroid, kidney, liver, and reproductive problems. They have been discovered in the Belmont area and in and around Wurtsmith Air Force Base, Sawyer Air Force Base, the Alpena Combat Readiness Training Center, Camp Grayling, and the Escanaba Defense Fuel Supply Point. “I’m deeply concerned that our families and service members have been exposed to contaminated water across Michigan, including in and around several military bases,” said Senator Stabenow. ”It is critical that we understand the health risks of this contamination so that people can be protected and health issues can be addressed for those who have been exposed.” “Michigan families and our men and women in uniform who were unknowingly exposed to unsafe levels of dangerous chemicals deserve the best treatment we can give them,” said Senator Peters. “This study will help determine the full impact of this contamination on Michiganders’ health so that we can prevent further exposure and ensure that any affected family can get the treatment they need.” Last summer, the Senate passed a measure in the National Defense Authorization Act championed by Stabenow and Peters that authorized the Department of Defense to conduct this study. Congressman Dan Kildee and bipartisan members of the Michigan delegation in the House of Representatives also sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee calling for funding for this study. The full text of the letter may be found below. February 5, 2018 The Honorable Thad Cochran Chairman, Committee on Appropriations Chairman, Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Room S-128, The Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Patrick Leahy Vice Chairman Senate Committee on Appropriations Room S-128, The Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Dick Durbin Ranking Member, Defense Appropriations Subcommittee 711 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Cochran, Vice Chairman Leahy, and Ranking Member Durbin: As you negotiate the FY2018 Defense Appropriations bill, we write to ask for your support for funding and programmatic language to help address per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). Exposure to these emerging contaminants has been linked to cancer as well as thyroid, kidney, liver, and reproductive problems. In 2016, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) established new lifetime health advisories for two types of PFAS -- Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS). The Department of Defense (DOD) has identified hundreds of active and former installations with known or suspected release of PFOS/PFOA that require investigation and remediation. In Michigan, unsafe levels of these chemicals have been discovered in and around Wurtsmith Air Force Base, Sawyer Air Force Base, the Alpena Combat Readiness Training Center, Camp Grayling, and the Escanaba Defense Fuel Supply Point. Section 316(a) of the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (P.L. No: 115-91) authorizes $7 million for a study led by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), with support from the Environmental Protection Agency and DOD, on the health effects and cumulative impact of PFAS contamination in drinking water, groundwater, and other pathways. We urge that no less than $7 million be included for the study in the FY2018 defense spending bill. In addition, Section 316(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act directs the CDC and the ATSDR to conduct an exposure assessment of at least eight military installations that are known to have PFAS contamination in drinking and groundwater sources. The data collected as part of the assessment will help inform the national health study authorized in Section 316(a). However, it is our understanding that a technical change is needed to the National Defense Authorization Act to enable the DOD to use any appropriated funds to carry out the reviews authorized in both 316(a) and 316(b). To that end, we ask that the following language be included in the FY2018 defense spending bill: SEC. 80XX. Section 316(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by striking “$7,000,000 shall be available to carry out the study under this subsection” and inserting “the Secretary of Defense may, without regard to section 2215 of title 10, United States Code, transfer not more than $7,000,000 to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to carry out the study and assessment under this section.” Thank you for considering these requests. We hope that the requisite funding and programmatic language to help the Department of Defense address PFAS contamination in Michigan and nationwide are included in the FY2018 Defense Appropriations bill.
02.19.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces New Skills for New Jobs Agenda Monday, February 19, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) announced her New Skills for New Jobs Agenda at events in Detroit, Flint, Traverse City, Lansing, and Grand Rapids. Last summer, Senator Stabenow brought together business owners, labor leaders, educators, and parents from across the state to discuss how to meet the needs of employers and provide job opportunities for all Michigan workers and students. Now, she is announcing her New Skills for New Jobs Agenda that will help every young person get the skills they need for a good-paying job. “Whether you’re headed to college or not, there are great opportunities to get the training and professional skills for a good-paying job right here in Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “My agenda is focused on expanding career paths for every young person and filling the demand of Michigan businesses who are ready to hire.” By 2025, over 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will need to be filled. Yet due to the skills gap, 2 million of those jobs will go unfilled, according to a report by Deloitte, the National Association of Manufacturers, and the Manufacturing Institute. Senator Stabenow’s New Skills for New Jobs Agenda aims to close the skills gap by focusing on three areas: strengthening employer training partnerships, connecting students with career and job opportunities, and investing in job training opportunities for workers. To read Senator Stabenow’s agenda, click here. “In high school, I only heard about going to college,” said John Perkins, a third year Carpenter Apprentice and Superintendent of Randolph School of Renovations. “After working in jobs I was not passionate about, I was fortunate to become a carpenter’s apprentice. Now I’m making good money, have a job I love, and am spreading the word to young people in Detroit about the great opportunities at Randolph.” “Detroit is undergoing an infrastructure boom with development across the city that’s creating many job opportunities,” said Dave Meador, Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative Officer of DTE Energy. “However, Detroit residents are missing out on those opportunities because they lack proper training from Career and Technical Education schools. That’s why DTE, the city, workforce development organizations and others are getting behind schools like Randolph, so the students enrolled now will be ready to take advantage of ongoing infrastructure development. Through these efforts, we can connect youth to quality summer jobs and put students on a path to employment — through apprenticeships or higher education.” “The demand for skilled trades is ever increasing in Detroit and we need to attract more young people. The food industry is a great example,” said Detroit Public Schools Community District Principal Leader Brenda Belcher. “We see new restaurants emerging every day. Our students are excellent candidates to fulfill these high demand positions working in culinary arts and hopefully one day owing their own restaurants. Our programs provide the necessary training to secure entry-level positions and in some cases certification. Our students prepare meals for their fellow classmates, teachers and the community. They also compete on a national level, and we’re proud to be part of the City’s growth. Additional funding is critical as we look to attract more students and expand our offerings, which include carpentry, electrical, plumbing, EMT training and much more.” “Thank you, Senator Stabenow, for creating such a comprehensive agenda to address the skills gap,” said Kristina Johnston, group vice president of the Flint & Genesee Chamber of Commerce. “The Chamber appreciates not only the focus on students and workers, but also the support that her agenda provides to businesses.” “Through our many partnerships with local school districts, higher education institutions, and our business community, we have seen the collective impact of working together for our students and community,” said Steven Tunnicliff, Ph.D., Associate Superintendent, Genesee Intermediate School District. “We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s leadership in promoting such partnerships as well as investing in education that will prepare students for multiple career paths. Through programs offered at the Genesee Career Institute we prepare students for college and career-focused training and credentialing in a state-of-the-art facility that mimics the business and industry environments.” "MCC is exited and fully supportive of Sen. Stabenow's New Skills for New Jobs Agenda,” said Robert Matthews, Vice President of Workforce Development, Mott Community College. “It exemplifies the kind of leadership we need to close the skills gap in our community, and for all American citizens." “RJG Inc., headquartered in Traverse City, provides training and advanced technology for the plastic injection molding industry to help our customers improve quality while reducing costs,” said Michael Groleau, Project Manager at RJG, Inc. “Having doubled our workforce to 150 people in 8 countries over just the last 6 years, we have experienced major challenges in finding the skilled workforce needed to grow our business. Fortunately, training for our new team members, funded in large part through the Michigan New Jobs Training Program, has helped tremendously. We are grateful to Senator Stabenow for raising awareness of the success of Michigan’s program and introducing legislation that will expand the reach of this type of training.” “Since its authorization in 2009, Northwestern Michigan College has been an active participant in the use of the Michigan New Jobs Training Act program,” said Marguerite Cotto, Vice President for Lifelong and Professional Learning, Northwestern Michigan College. “To date, NMC has worked with 36 employers throughout eight counties to create 600 new jobs paying at least 175% of minimum wage. Therefore, NMC supports Senator Stabenow and her introduction of the New Skills for New Jobs Act, which would leverage new federal matching dollars for this already successful state program. As a result, community colleges like NMC would have the additional resources needed to continue to expand the public-private partnerships that directly result in the hiring of new employees throughout our community, leading to economic growth and prosperity.” “We share Senator Stabenow’s passion to prepare all students for their career pathway of choice, including those who pursue the skilled trades, attend college or immediately enter the workforce,” said Dr. Jason Jeffrey, Traverse Bay Area ISD Assistant Superintendent. “We acknowledge the high value of business-education partnerships such as those perpetuated by Mike Groleau at RJG.” “We are honored to have Senator Stabenow visit Grand Rapids and thrilled to have her at Grand Rapids Community College,” said Bill Pink, President, Grand Rapids Community College. “Her New Skills for New Jobs agenda is very encouraging to us, particularly the potential to assist us in continuing to prepare students in furthering their education and career.” "Due to the increasing need for more school counselors in Michigan, we are appreciative of Senator Stabenow's Careers Act,” said Terri Tchorzynski, Professional School Counselor, Calhoun Area Career Center and 2017 National School Counselor of the Year. “This initiative will support the career development component of our work so that we can ensure students are aware of the multiple career paths that are available to them." “Apprenticeship programs have been in existence for hundreds of years. The building trades has effectively trained and graduated millions of skilled labor crafts men and women across the country,” said Bill Kenney, President, West Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council. “These programs are self funded and do not receive tax dollars. Due to the partnership with signatory employers, career placement is 100%. Students graduate with a career and no student debt. I applaud Senator Stabenow for leading the efforts on raising awareness on these existing programs here in Michigan. The Senator truly understands the opportunities that an apprenticeship program has to offer for a rewarding career and fulfilling lifestyle.” “DeWys Manufacturing, like so many growing employers in our region and state, is struggling to locate employees to fill much needed and rewarding positions,” said Jon DeWys, Chief Executive Officer, DeWys Manufacturing. “Senator Stabenow’s legislation to offer no cost training with participating employers -- coupled with our state’s efforts to offer high schoolers flexibility to gain necessary education in professional trade -- is a huge step forward. With so many career options available today, it is difficult for young people to figure out what they want to do as a career. Additional legislation that Senator Stabenow is proposing allowing schools funding to increase the number of career counselors will help members of our next generation workforce to identify careers that best fit who they are and what they are good at. Wages and benefits continue to increase in the professional trades, allowing high school graduates rewarding careers in manufacturing and construction without the massive college debt and subsequent high interest of paying it off.” “We really appreciate Senator Stabenow shining a spotlight on our terrific training center here in Lansing,” said Trent Mauk, Training Coordinator, Plumbers & Pipefitters Local 333. “It’s very important that students and parents know about the opportunities and great jobs in plumbing and pipefitting.” “Senator Stabenow’s efforts to support our regional workforce are greatly appreciated as we strive together to enhance our existing and emerging workforce,” said Bo Garcia, Dean of Community Education & Workforce Development at Lansing Community College. “Senator Stabenow’s commitment to economic and community development is vitally important. As a highly active partner in the Michigan New Jobs Training Program, Lansing Community College has had the opportunity to train thousands of employees from numerous and diverse regional employers, and we are excited by the prospect of growing and upskilling our workforce through the New Skills for New Jobs Act.
02.14.2018	Senator Stabenow Hosts Michigan Veteran to Share Perspective on the Importance of the Farmer Veterans Programs in the Farm Bill Wednesday, February 14, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today hosted Nick Babcock, President of the Farmer Veteran Coalition of Michigan, to share his story as a farmer veteran and discuss the importance of incentives in the Farm Bill with Senators and leaders of the veteran community. Babcock was one of seven veteran leaders from across the country that participated in the discussion hosted by Senators. “Our veterans put their lives on the line to serve our country and shouldn't stand at the back of any line –including an opportunity for a good job,” said Senator Stabenow. “Nick was able to start a great career in farming, and I appreciate that he is helping other veterans do the same." During the discussion, Babcock shared his perspective as a veteran who successfully started a career in agriculture, and said that farming gave him stability and changed his life for the better during his transition from the military. Babcock also highlighted several initiatives in the Farm Bill that have helped veterans like him start a farm. “Agriculture provided me with a positive coping mechanism when I needed it most,” said Nick Babcock. “I appreciate Senator Stabenow’s work to connect veterans like me with opportunities to start a career on the farm.” Senator Stabenow authored the current Farm Bill in 2014 and led the effort to strengthen support for farmer veterans. For the first time, the legislation created a Military Veteran Agricultural Liaison position to advocate for farmer veterans at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. In order to help farmer veterans overcome the barriers many new farmers face, the Farm Bill prioritized veteran access to training resources and financing through short-term, low-interest loans. The bill also made it easier to participate in voluntary conservation initiatives. Babcock, a native of Mid-Michigan, retired from the U.S. Army in 2013. Babcock is the President of the Farmer Veteran Coalition of Michigan, which is one of the largest Farmer Veteran Coalition chapters in the country. In addition to pursuing his master’s degree in Entomology at Michigan State University, Babcock currently operates 5BsFarm LLC focused on sheep and poultry production.
02.12.2018	Stabenow Statement on Cuts to Great Lakes Funding in President Trump’s Budget Proposal Monday, February 12, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement on the news that President Trump’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2019 nearly eliminates funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: “If there’s one thing we’ve learned, we can’t take it for granted that others understand how important our water is. This is outrageous. People across Michigan spoke out and took action last year to stop these cuts and I know they’ll do so again.” The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which Senator Stabenow authored in 2010 and has continued to champion, is critical to cleaning up the Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways and fighting invasive species like Asian carp. According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. Despite strong bipartisan support in Congress for this program, President Trump’s budget only calls for $30 million in funding. Michigan projects have received more than $600 million in funding from this program since its establishment.
02.09.2018	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Roseville Friday, February 09, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Roseville as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Just Delicious Scones & Tea Room, Owl Winery and Chester Boot Shop in Roseville as well as Royal Popcorn in Eastpointe. Stabenow’s tour has included over 140 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Detroit, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell, Williamston and Roseville. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Roseville is no exception.” “Senator Stabenow was so engaging with the customers and has a true love for people, that was clear. To have the one-on-one support for a business owner and for her to come see how what she does affects us was really great,” said Jennifer Colombo, Owner of Just Delicious Scones. “The time she spends to see a small business owner and what they are doing is really valuable, for both parties and you can tell the inspiration is mutual. That connection is hard to find in the political world but that connection is natural for her. She finds true joy in her work, working for us.” “I got to show Senator Stabenow around the store and show her our history,” said Don Wolanchuk, Owner of Chester Boot Shop. “It’s pretty cool for her to stop by small businesses, I appreciate her support.”
02.08.2018	Stabenow Leads Effort to Provide Relief for Michigan Dairy Farmers Thursday, February 08, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced the U.S. Senate has reached a deal to provide immediate support for Michigan dairy farmers. “As Michigan’s number one commodity, dairy is critically important to Michigan’s food economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “The Michigan dairy industry has been struggling because of market instability. Today’s bipartisan solution is the relief Michigan’s dairy farmers have been waiting for, providing certainty and strengthening this important part of Michigan’s economy.” Dairy is Michigan’s top commodity, supporting 40,000 jobs and contributing over $15 billion to the state’s economy. The current Farm Bill created several new risk management tools to protect farmers from unexpected market instability. The new tool for dairy farmers, the Margin Protection Program has not worked as intended due to last minute budget cuts and implementation problems at USDA. Since 2014, dairy farmers have struggled from market uncertainty without a reliable safety net. “This is excellent news for the dairy industry,” said Ken Nobis, president of the Michigan Milk Producers Association. “We appreciate the efforts of Senator Stabenow for her commitment to address deficiencies with the dairy safety net program. The proposed changes provide additional risk management options to assist dairy producers during these challenging economic times facing the industry.” Senator Stabenow worked with Senate Appropriations leaders to make improvements for agriculture and led the effort to provide immediate relief for dairy producers. The Senate proposal announced today would provide immediate support for Michigan’s dairy farmers by fixing problems with the old Margin Protection Program, providing a pathway to new, customizable insurance tools, and set the stage for additional improvements in the Farm Bill.
02.08.2018	Senator Stabenow Tours Chapaton Retention Basin Thursday, February 08, 2018 On Friday, February 2nd, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow joined Macomb County Public Works Commissioner Candice Miller for a tour of the Chapaton Retention Basin. The basin handles water flow from St. Clair Shores to Eastpointe and plays a critical role in preventing waste from reaching Lake St. Clair and the Great Lakes. “No family in Macomb wants waste to be dumped in Lake St. Clair or our Great Lakes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Commissioner Miller and the Public Works team in Macomb County are doing an incredible job working to eliminate this problem. I’m committed to providing any federal help that will expand retention capabilities and protect our lakes and look forward to continuing to partner with her.” “We all need to work together to reduce and eventually eliminate combined sewer overflows from entering our magnificent Great Lakes,” said Commissioner Candice Miller. “We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s visit to our retention/pumping facility and her hands on approach to assisting with exploring sources of financing.”
02.07.2018	Stabenow Announces Funding for Community Health Centers Wednesday, February 07, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a months-long bipartisan effort, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that critical funding for community health centers will be reauthorized for two years. Funding for community health centers, which serve more than 680,000 people in Michigan and over 27 million nationally, expired on September 30, 2017. “After a long fight, we finally have great news today for families in Michigan and across the country who rely on community health centers for the health care they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is a big relief for our families, veterans, and children who won’t have to wonder anymore if they’ll be able to see a doctor.” "Reauthorization of the Health Center Program is a testament to the power of bipartisanship, and we’re grateful to Sen. Stabenow for leading that charge," said Loretta V. Bush, Chief Executive Officer, Michigan Primary Care Association. "Now that this budgetary crisis is over, community health centers can get back to the business of what they do best: providing high-quality care to their patients." “On behalf of the more than 16,000 patients we serve in Wayne County, we thank Senator Stabenow for leading the effort to pass funding we need to continue serving families,” said Linda Atkins, Chief Executive Officer, Western Wayne Family Health Center. “The Senator has been a long time champion for community health centers in Michigan and around the U.S.” “We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s tenacious leadership to get this much-needed funding,” said Clarence Pierce, Chief Executive Officer of Hamilton Community Health Network in Genesee County. “As the largest FQHC in Genesee County, this is great news for more than 26,000 patients we serve.” “Funding for our community health centers was at risk; we’ve been in limbo since October,” said Molly Kaser, Chief Executive Officer at the Center for Family Health in Jackson. “Senator Stabenow championed the effort to give us budget certainty so that we can continue to provide access and excellent care for our patients.” “CHASS Center staff and patients are delighted, and relieved, to receive the information that community health center funding has been reauthorized,” said Felix Zalbuena, Jr. MD, Chief Executive Officer of Community Health and Social Services Center (CHASS) in Detroit. “Through support of legislators, and in particular through the unwavering efforts of Senator Stabenow, community health centers will be able to continue providing comprehensive and cost effective primary health and wellness care to over 27 million people nationwide.” “As a health center located in rural Northern Lower Michigan, our patients count on us for access to healthcare services,” said Arlene Brennan, Chief Executive Officer of Traverse City Health Clinic. “We are absolutely thrilled that the Senate has approved extending health center funding for two years. Extending health center funding will allow us to continue to provide the services that positively impact the health of our 3,500 patients, making a real difference in their quality of life and the health of our community." Community health centers provide quality medical, dental, vision and behavioral health care to more than 680,000 people in Michigan, including 225,000 children and 12,700 veterans. Without extension of the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF), community health centers would have lost seventy percent of their funding. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) authored bipartisan legislation to fund health centers and earlier this week led 65 of their colleagues in calling on Senate leadership to immediately reauthorize funding for community health centers. The failure to reauthorize the fund has jeopardized access to care for millions of Americans and made it difficult for community health centers to adequately plan for everything from staffing needs to securing loans for capital projects. Stabenow and Blunt previously sent a letter, which was signed by a bipartisan group of 70 senators, urging the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Chairman and Ranking Member to extend funding for community health centers.
02.06.2018	Stabenow, Blunt Continue Leading Bipartisan Push for Community Health Centers Funding Community health centers serve 680,000 people in Michigan, including 225,000 children and 12,700 veterans Tuesday, February 06, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (Mich.) and Roy Blunt (Mo.) led a bipartisan group of senators in calling on Senate leadership to immediately reauthorize funding for community health centers. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.) and Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer (N.Y.), Stabenow, Blunt and 65 of their Senate colleagues, including Senator Gary Peters (Mich.), expressed their strong support for community health centers, which provide access to cost-effective primary and preventive care for families across the country. “Community health centers serve a vital function, providing affordable health care to our nation’s most vulnerable citizens,” wrote the senators. “They provide quality medical, dental, vision and behavioral health care to more than 27 million patients, including 330,000 of our nation’s veterans and 8 million children, at over 10,000 sites nationwide. … Without extension of the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF), community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and approximately 9 million Americans losing access to their health care.” As the senators note in their letter, the CHCF expired on September 30, 2017. The failure to reauthorize the fund has jeopardized access to care for millions of Americans, including 680,000 people in Michigan, and made it difficult for community health centers to adequately plan for everything from staffing needs to securing loans for capital projects. Stabenow and Blunt previously sent a letter, which was signed by a bipartisan group of 70 senators, urging the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Chairman and Ranking Member to extend funding for community health centers. In addition to Stabenow and Blunt, the senators who signed on to today’s letter include: Tammy Baldwin (Wis.), Michael Bennet (Colo.), Richard Blumenthal (Conn.), Cory Booker (N.J.), John Boozman (Ark.), Sherrod Brown (Ohio), Maria Cantwell (Wash.), Shelley Moore Capito (W.Va.), Ben Cardin (Md.), Tom Carper (Del.), Bob Casey, Jr. (Pa.), Bill Cassidy (La.), Thad Cochran (Miss.), Christopher Coons (Del.), Catherine Cortez Masto (Nev.), Mike Crapo (Idaho), Steve Daines (Mont.), Joe Donnelly (Ind.), Tammy Duckworth (Ill.), Dick Durbin (Ill.), Joni Ernst (Iowa), Dianne Feinstein (Calif.), Deb Fischer (Neb.), Cory Gardner (Colo.), Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.), Kamala Harris (Calif.), Maggie Hassan (N.H.), Martin Heinrich (N.M.), Heidi Heitkamp (N.D.), Dean Heller (Nev.), Mazie Hirono (Hawaii), John Hoeven (N.D.), James Inhofe (Okla.), Johnny Isakson (Ga.), Doug Jones (Ala.), Tim Kaine (Va.), John Kennedy (La.), Angus King (Maine), Amy Klobuchar (Minn.), Patrick Leahy (Vt.), Joe Manchin (W.Va.), Ed Markey (Mass.), Claire McCaskill (Mo.), Robert Menendez (N.J.), Jeff Merkley (Ore.), Jerry Moran (Kan.), Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), Chris Murphy (Conn.), Bill Nelson (Fla.), Gary Peters (Mich.), Rob Portman (Ohio), Jack Reed (R.I.), James Risch (Idaho), Bernie Sanders (Vt.), Brian Schatz (Hawaii), Jeanne Shaheen (N.H.), Tina Smith (Minn.), Jon Tester (Mont.), Thom Tillis (N.C.), Tom Udall (N.M.), Chris Van Hollen (Md.), Mark Warner (Va.), Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.), and Roger Wicker (Miss.). A PDF of the letter is attached and the full text is below. February 5, 2018 The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Charles Schumer Majority Leader Minority Leader United States Senate United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer: We write to express our concern over funding for community health centers, which expired on September 30, 2017. We strongly urge you to reauthorize this funding immediately. Community health centers serve a vital function, providing affordable health care to our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. They provide quality medical, dental, vision and behavioral health care to more than 27 million patients, including 330,000 of our nation’s veterans and 8 million children, at over 10,000 sites nationwide. By offering preventative care, treating chronic conditions, and working to fight the opioid epidemic, community health centers are not only greatly improving the health and well-being of those they serve, they are also saving significant taxpayer dollars. Without extension of the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF), community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and approximately 9 million Americans losing access to their health care. Moreover, community health centers operate as small businesses and require a level of predictability to operate and respond to the needs of their communities. Since the expiration of the CHCF, community health centers have not been able to adequately plan for everything from staffing needs to securing loans for capital projects. In addition, the expiration of the National Health Service Corps and Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education program threatens the ability of health centers to meet their workforce needs. For more than fifty years, community health centers have experienced strong bipartisan support. In fact, twenty bipartisan senators cosponsor legislation which reauthorizes funding not only for community health centers but also for the National Health Service Corps. We look forward to working with you to reach a bipartisan agreement to fund the community health center program and enable our community health centers to continue providing high quality and affordable care to those in need.
02.01.2018	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Williamston Thursday, February 01, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Williamston as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with the Williamston Chamber of Commerce as well as business owners at Fireworks Glass Studio, Vivee’s Floral Garden and Café as well as Old Nation Brewery. Stabenow’s tour has included over 130 stops in communities across the state including Indian Village, West Village, Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry, Howell and Williamston. “In every corner of Michigan, from big cities to small towns, small businesses are the heart of our communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Williamston truly is no exception.” “It was a pleasure to have a visit from Senator Stabenow,” said Dawn-Marie Joseph, Owner of Vivee's Floral Garden and Café. “Senator Stabenow asked me what the biggest challenge I thought small businesses are facing now. My response was hiring and she told me that many of the small business owners she talked to were having the same problem. It is very nice to have her take time to go out to visit with people who are involved with the local economy of Michigan.” “I’m always happy to see our elected officials concerned about small businesses,” said Travis Fritts, Owner of Old Nation Brewery. “The Senator and I had a chance to talk about potential opportunities for Michigan to grow barley. It was really great to hear her perspective on an industry as impactful as agriculture in our state.”
01.31.2018	Stabenow Statement on State of the Union Address Wednesday, January 31, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following the 2018 State of the Union Address: “Tonight, I was honored to be joined by Michigan Medal of Honor recipient and Vietnam veteran Jim McCloughan at the State of the Union Address. His participation is a reminder to all of us that we cannot take our values as a country or the people who keep us safe for granted. I remain committed to working with Republicans, Democrats, and the White House to get things done for Michigan families.” This week, Senator Stabenow sent a letter to President Trump outlining important priorities for Michigan in any federal infrastructure package developed by Congress or the White House. She pointed to the critical needs of Michigan’s roads and bridges, water and sewer systems, broadband network, harbors on the Great Lakes, and Soo Locks. Veterans’ health care has been a longstanding priority for Senator Stabenow. She recently introduced the Veterans Deserve Better Act to address serious problems in the federal Veterans Choice Program and announced bipartisan legislation to give veterans the same preventive health insurance coverage as the general public. She has championed the effort to open new and expanded VA clinics across the state, including in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Cheboygan County, Grayling, Oscoda, and Wyoming.
01.29.2018	Senator Stabenow Outlines Priorities for Michigan in Federal Infrastructure Package Monday, January 29, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today sent a letter to President Trump outlining important priorities for Michigan that should be included in any federal infrastructure package developed by Congress or the Trump Administration. Stabenow pointed to the critical needs of Michigan’s roads and bridges, water and sewer systems, broadband network, harbors on the Great Lakes and the Soo Locks. She also underscored that projects funded through any upcoming infrastructure proposal should follow Buy American requirements and include protections for American workers. “When we invest in Michigan’s roads, bridges, harbors, and communities, we invest in Michigan’s future,” said Senator Stabenow. “It’s time to get serious about investments that grow our economy, make sure our water is safe to drink, and help create good Michigan jobs.” The full text of Senator Stabenow’s letter to President Trump may be found below. January 29, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, As you continue to develop an infrastructure package for Congress to consider, I write to offer recommendations on federal investments that would help Michigan’s economy, spur new high-paying jobs, enhance public safety, and improve quality of life in rural and urban communities throughout our state. Well-maintained roads and bridges are vital for people to work and to bring goods to market. Unfortunately, years of inadequate investment have left critical surface infrastructure in disrepair. In Michigan, 20% of all public roads are in poor condition, costing drivers $540 in annual repair costs to keep their vehicles running. At the same time, over 1,200 bridges in Michigan are structurally deficient. Any infrastructure proposal must include robust federal investments to fix our roads and bridges, not privatization schemes that benefit a few companies at the expense of taxpayers. Just as our roads and bridges need upgrades and repairs, so too does the water infrastructure system that we depend on for safe and clean drinking water. The Flint water crisis may be the most visible reminder of the serious public health consequences from neglecting drinking water infrastructure, but drinking water systems in communities of all sizes across Michigan require much needed capital investment. Over the next 20 years, the Environmental Protection Agency estimates that nearly $14 billion in investments is needed just to maintain drinking water systems in Michigan. Additionally, in 2017, Michigan had a $100 million backlog of clean water projects in line for USDA’s Rural Development water programs. Robust funding for EPA’s Drinking Water State Revolving Fund and financing programs administered by USDA Rural Development is critical to ensuring clean and affordable drinking water. Significant federal investments are also needed to address our aging sewer and wastewater networks. On Christmas Eve in 2016, a sewer pipe leak resulted in a 100-foot wide, 250-foot long sinkhole in a neighborhood in Macomb County. The rupture resulted in the evacuation of 22 homes and the closure of roads for months. Across Michigan, many sewer lines are rapidly aging, and according to the American Society of Civil Engineers, more than $2 billion in upgrades are needed to maintain the state’s wastewater infrastructure. Moreover, failing wastewater infrastructure in Michigan and in states across the region results in tens of billions of gallons of raw or poorly treated sewage flowing into the Great Lakes. Additional resources are also required to maintain the Great Lakes navigation system, which encompasses 140 federal harbors, over 600 miles of navigation channels, and three locks and dams – including the critically important Soo Locks complex in Sault St. Marie, Michigan that requires $115 million in maintenance and nearly a billion dollars to ensure its long-term viability. According to a recent study by the Department of Treasury, a $600 million investment to modernize the Soo Locks could provide an economic benefit of more than $1.7 billion. At the same time, funding is needed to dredge Michigan’s shallow-draft harbors that are critical to recreational navigation, public safety, and the economies of Michigan’s local communities. As we fund projects to maintain and improve waterway navigation, it is equally important to provide federal resources to protect the Great Lakes from aquatic invasive species such as Asian carp. This starts with funding to upgrade the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, a critical choke point in the Illinois River, with measures to stop Asian carp from reaching Lake Michigan. Proactive efforts to stop Asian Carp at Brandon Road will prevent catastrophic damages to our multi-billion dollar recreational fishing and boating industries, and in the long term, save the federal government untold amounts of money to fight Asian carp if they are allowed to populate our Lakes. In addition, as we improve our infrastructure, we should not roll back protections for the Great Lakes, which provide drinking water for 40 million people, contribute $10 billion in tourism each year, and support hundreds of thousands of jobs across the region. Another infrastructure priority that is often overlooked is broadband access. Over 34 million Americans, including 23 million rural Americans, do not have internet service available to them at an adequate speed and quality. In Michigan, over 1 million people do not have access to high-speed internet. Broadband is not a luxury – every Michigan business owner, farmer, student, hospital, and family deserves access to high-speed internet. Any infrastructure proposal must include robust funding for high-speed internet. All infrastructure projects funded through this proposal should also adhere to strong Buy America requirements and include protections for American workers such as prevailing wage. These steps will ensure that taxpayer dollars are used to create jobs in Michigan and across the country. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. I stand ready to work with you in a bipartisan fashion to help fund infrastructure investments that are critical to the State of Michigan and the entire country.
01.25.2018	Senator Stabenow Announces Vietnam Veteran and Medal of Honor Recipient James “Doc” McCloughan as Her State of the Union Guest Thursday, January 25, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that her guest for the 2018 State of the Union address will be James “Doc” McCloughan, a Vietnam veteran and South Haven native who last year received the Congressional Medal of Honor, our nation’s highest military honor. Legislation passed by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama made McCloughan eligible for the Congressional Medal of Honor. “I am so honored to have hero Jim McCloughan as my guest for this year’s State of the Union address,” said Senator Stabenow. “I invited Jim not only to recognize his acts of heroism on the battlefield, but for being a hero to countless young people over the years as a coach, teacher, mentor and community leader.” “I am humbled and honored to be the guest of Senator Stabenow to the State of the Union address,” said Jim McCloughan. “Debbie Stabenow is a principled hard worker who is dedicated to our veterans, the residents of Michigan and the nation at large.” Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The legislation passed by Senators Stabenow and Peters waived the five-year requirement and made it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to McCloughan. U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended the Medal of Honor Ceremony for James McCloughan at the White House on July 31, 2017. Then-Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated, receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, The National Defense Medal, The Good Conduct Medal, The Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, The Vietnam Campaign Medal, The Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge. McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5). Following his service in Vietnam, McCloughan taught at South Haven High School and coached football, baseball and wrestling. Upon his retirement in 2008, McCloughan was awarded the Michigan Education Association’s 40 years of Service Award.
01.23.2018	Stabenow, Peters Statements on Trump Administration’s Tariff Decision Tuesday, January 23, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today released statements on the Trump Administration’s decision to impose tariffs on foreign-made washing machines. This follows calls from Stabenow and Peters for the International Trade Commission to recommend that the Trump Administration take strong action against these imports that harm domestic manufacturers. “Our Michigan workers and manufacturers are the best in the world and can compete with anyone when given a level playing field,” said Senator Stabenow. “I have fought aggressively to enforce our trade laws to stop companies in China and South Korea from cheating. This action is good for Michigan companies and workers.” “For too long Michigan’s workers have been negatively impacted by Chinese and South Korean companies unfairly dumping cheap products into the market,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased that following our calls to act, the Trump Administration is taking action against unfair trade practices that undercut Michigan businesses. I will keep fighting to protect Michigan workers and companies from unfair competitors so they can succeed in the global marketplace.” In 2017, Stabenow and Peters applauded a 2017 decision by the U.S. International Trade Committee that foreign manufacturers of washers were engaging in unfair trade practices, deliberately undercutting Michigan-based Whirlpool Corporation.
01.23.2018	Stabenow, Peters Lead Bipartisan Call to Fund Testing and Development of Self-Driving Cars in Government Spending Deal Funding will allow facilities like American Center for Mobility at Willow Run to reach maximum potential Tuesday, January 23, 2018 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today led a bipartisan call to fund the testing and development of connected and self-driving cars as part of any government spending deal that is negotiated for 2018. The Senators made their request in a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing, Urban Development, and Related Agencies, Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Jack Reed (D-RI), respectively. U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), and Bill Nelson (D-FL) also signed the letter. “Connected and automated vehicles are being developed internationally, and we risk the erosion of our leadership position if we do not take steps to facilitate the continued advancement of these technologies in the United States,” wrote the Senators. “USDOT [United States Department of Transportation], recognizing this urgent need, last year solicited proposals from facilities across the country to be designated as Automated Vehicle Proving Grounds. After evaluating more than 60 applicants under a rigorous and detailed set of selection criteria, USDOT chose ten proving grounds [including the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run.] “Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now be given the resources to use these facilities to their maximum potential and pave the way for the safe deployment of these technologies,” the Senators continued. “We therefore urge robust funding for research and development of CAV [connected and automated vehicle] technologies. Furthermore, USDOT should be directed to use such funds for safety research and testing at the USDOT-designated proving grounds.” The American Center for Mobility, located at the former Willow Run Site in Ypsilanti Township, is a purpose-built facility designed for research, education, testing, standards-convening, product development, validation and self-certification for connected and automated technologies as well as future mobility. Senators Stabenow and Peters joined state officials and automotive leaders to break ground on the new facility in November 2016 and the facility opened for initial testing in December 2017. January 18, 2018 The Honorable Susan Collins Chair Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Senate Committee on Appropriations 184 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Jack Reed Ranking Member Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Senate Committee on Appropriations 125 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 2051 Dear Chairman Collins and Ranking Member Reed: As you move toward conclusion of the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) appropriations process, we write to express our strong support for robust funding for the testing and development of connected and automated vehicle (CAV) technology at the proving grounds officially designated by the Department of Transportation (USDOT). The auto industry is in the midst of a seismic technological shift that will revolutionize the transportation of people and goods in our lifetime. Connected and self-driving cars can dramatically reduce the more than 37,000 lives lost on our roads and highways every year and fundamentally transform the way we get around. Ensuring that American innovators can safely develop and implement this technology will not only save lives but also solidify our nation’s position as the world leader in the future of mobility. Connected and automated vehicles are being developed internationally, and we risk the erosion of our leadership position if we do not take steps to facilitate the continued advancement of these technologies in the United States. It is critical that the Federal government play a leadership role in ensuring that CAV technologies are safely developed and tested. USDOT, recognizing this urgent need, last year solicited proposals from facilities across the country to be designated as Automated Vehicle Proving Grounds. The intent was to form an initial network of proving grounds focused on the advancement of automated vehicle technology. After evaluating more than 60 applicants under a rigorous and detailed set of selection criteria, USDOT chose ten proving grounds. Together, those facilities collectively form a federal Community of Practice around the safe testing and deployment of CAV and related data technologies. Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now be given the resources to use these facilities to their maximum potential and pave the way for the safe deployment of these technologies. We therefore urge robust funding for research and development of CAV technologies. Furthermore, USDOT should be directed to use such funds for safety research and testing at the USDOT-designated proving grounds. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you to advance the development of this lifesaving technology.
01.18.2018	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Howell Thursday, January 18, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Howell as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow was joined by the Howell area Chamber of Commerce as she met with business owners at Uptown Coffeehouse, Heart of Michigan, Cleary’s Pub and Benjamin Franklin Plumbing. Howell was recently named as a finalist for the National Main Street Award. Stabenow’s tour has included over 130 stops in communities across the state including Indian Village, West Village, Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba, Newberry and Howell. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Howell who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” “As a small business and historic property owner in downtown Howell, I was thrilled to have the opportunity to share one of my passions with the Senator - historic preservation,” said Lorna Brennan, Owner of Uptown Coffeehouse. “Recently, I received a state historic façade grant, made possible in part through federal funding. We talked about the importance of the continuance of these types of grant programs for historic preservation and the positive impact that preserving these beautiful downtown historic buildings has on the vibrancy and success of downtowns such as Howell. We thank the Senator for her genuine interest in our small business, its people and the great community of Howell.”
01.18.2018	Stabenow, Peters Lead Bipartisan Push to Fund Critical Strategy to Protect Great Lakes Coastline in Next Year’s Budget Thursday, January 18, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today led a bipartisan push to provide funding for the Great Lakes Coastline Resiliency Study, a critical strategy to protect coastlines across the state, in the fiscal year 2019 budget. Following recent hurricanes that have caused massive flooding across the country, this study would help Great Lakes states to better assess potential vulnerabilities to coastal communities and evaluate measures to improve coastal resilience. Stabenow and Peters made the funding request in a letter to Trump Administration officials that was signed by Great Lakes Task Force co-Chair Rob Portman (R-OH), Vice Chair Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Members Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Bob Casey (D-PA), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and Tina Smith (D-MN). “The Great Lakes coastline faces numerous threats, such as lake level fluctuations, erosion, flooding, nutrient runoff, and aging infrastructure. It is important to ensure that the Great Lakes’ 5,200-mile coastline is protected, as 4.2 million people live within two miles of a Great Lakes coastline,” wrote the Senators. “The coastline is also imperative to a robust economy and tourism industry in the Great Lakes, as it includes 60 commercial harbors moving over 123 million tons of cargo annually, a maritime economy valued at $17.3 billion and generating 293,000 jobs, a $14 billion Great Lakes recreation and tourism economy, and a diverse ecosystem of features such as wetlands, bluffs, dunes and beaches and species that are either threatened or endangered.” “The Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study... proposed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) in consultation with the Great Lakes states, would be the first of its kind to coordinate a strategy across the Great Lakes states to most efficiently and effectively manage and protect the Great Lakes coastline,” the Senators continued. “We fully intend for this study to be used to implement projects that will result in a more resilient coastline throughout the Great Lakes and a more strategic expenditure of state and federal funds.” The full text of the letter may be found below. January 17, 2018 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Mr. Ryan A. Fisher Director Acting Assistant Secretary of the Office of Management and Budget U.S. Army (Civil Works) 725 17th Street, NW 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20503 Washington, DC 20310-0101 Dear Director Mulvaney and Acting Assistant Secretary Fisher: As members of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force, we are writing to urge the inclusion of the Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study in the President’s FY2019 budget request. This study, proposed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) in consultation with the Great Lakes states, would be the first of its kind to coordinate a strategy across the Great Lakes states to most efficiently and effectively manage and protect the Great Lakes coastline. Recent hurricanes have demonstrated the devastation and destruction that severe weather events and flooding can have on our nation’s coastlines and communities. The Great Lakes coastline faces numerous threats, such as lake level fluctuations, erosion, flooding, nutrient runoff, and aging infrastructure. It is important to ensure that the Great Lakes’ 5,200-mile coastline is protected, as 4.2 million people live within two miles of a Great Lakes coastline. The coastline is also imperative to a robust economy and tourism industry in the Great Lakes, as it includes 60 commercial harbors moving over 123 million tons of cargo annually, a maritime economy valued at $17.3 billion and generating 293,000 jobs, a $14 billion Great Lakes recreation and tourism economy, and a diverse ecosystem of features such as wetlands, bluffs, dunes and beaches and species that are either threatened or endangered. We were pleased to learn that this study is a top priority for the three Corps Districts (Chicago, Detroit, and Buffalo) surrounding the Great Lakes as well as the Corps’ Great Lakes and Ohio River Division. It also has the support of seven Great Lakes states, the Great Lakes Commission, and several federal agencies with missions in coastal management, including NOAA and U.S. Geological Survey. These partners have recognized the need for regional collaboration to ensure the most efficient use of resources to protect the Great Lakes coastline. We appreciate the Corps’ consultation with the Great Lakes states in proposing this study, as we fully intend for this study to be used to implement projects that will result in a more resilient coastline throughout the Great Lakes and a more strategic expenditure of state and federal funds. In closing, we again reiterate our support for the Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study, and ask that this study be included in the President’s FY2019 budget request. Thank you for your consideration of our request.
01.05.2018	Stabenow Statement on Passing of Shirley Rodgers Friday, January 05, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on the passing of longtime Lansing Board of Education member Shirley Rodgers: “I am very sad to hear of the passing of my dear friend, Shirley Rodgers. Shirley dedicated her life to public service and was a champion for the people of Lansing throughout her years in local government. Shirley’s passion for improving the lives of those around her was evident to all. My thoughts and prayers are with Shirley’s family at this very difficult time.”
01.04.2018	Stabenow Applauds $890,000 Investment to Improve Maple River Watershed Fishing Support made possible by the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, created by Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill Thursday, January 04, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will invest $890,000, which will be matched by private investments, to improve water quality and fish habitat in the Maple River Watershed. This innovative new partnership is one of ten projects in Michigan made possible by the 2014 Farm Bill’s Regional Conservation Partnership Program, authored by Stabenow. “This project is another great example of businesses, non-profits and conservation leaders working alongside farmers at the local level to improve water quality and create new habitats for fishing in the Maple River Watershed,” said Senator Stabenow. “The new partnership will build on the historic investments in land and water conservation that we have already made across the state, which is strengthening local economies and supporting our way of life.” The Maple Watershed Fish Habitat Improvement project will bring together 13 partners to restore fish habitat and improve water quality through a variety of conservation measures including buffer strips, and drainage management. “We are excited to work with our conservation partners and producers in the Maple River Watershed by implementing a novel approach to improve water quality and fish habitat,” said Jeremiah Asher, Project Lead and Assistant Director of the Institute of Water Research at Michigan State University. “Senator Stabenow's leadership in protecting Michigan's land and water has helped to make this project possible.” The bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill created a first-of-its-kind approach to conservation through partnerships between agriculture and conservation groups to preserve land and water, restore habitats for hunting and fishing, and protect the Great Lakes. These locally-led partnerships leverage private and public dollars to bring together partners to address regional conservation issues. In Michigan alone, ten projects have received over $57 million in federal funding, which is matched by over $57 million in partner contributions. To build on this progress, Senator Stabenow recently introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen regional conservation partnerships in the upcoming 2018 Farm Bill. The Regional Conservation Partnership Program Improvement Act will provide more resources for partners to expand the reach of conservation projects, while cutting red-tape and increasing flexibility to attract new participants.
01.04.2018	Stabenow Applauds $1 Million Investment to Protect Lake Erie and Productive Ann Arbor Farmland Support made possible by the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, created by Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill Thursday, January 04, 2018 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will invest $1,040,000, which will be matched by private funds, to restore Lake Erie and preserve productive farmland around Ann Arbor. This innovative new partnership is one of ten projects in Michigan made possible by the 2014 Farm Bill’s Regional Conservation Partnership Program, authored by Stabenow. “This project is another great example of businesses, non-profits and conservation leaders working alongside farmers at the local level to preserve land and restore habitats for fishing in the Western Lake Erie Basin,” said Senator Stabenow. “The new partnership will build on the historic investments in land and water conservation that we have already made across the state, while also keeping farmland around Ann Arbor viable and productive.” Located near the struggling Western Lake Erie Basin and southeast Michigan’s rapidly growing metropolitan areas, the Ann Arbor Greenbelt: Saving Michigan Farms project will bring together eight partners to protect local farms, improve soil and water quality, and restore habitat for fish and wildlife. “This new funding will further the Ann Arbor Greenbelt’s and its partners' efforts to save key agricultural lands near rapidly growing metropolitan areas and Lake Erie in southeast Michigan. The farms will remain farms, supporting the local economy, providing fresh food to communities, preserving the area’s agricultural heritage, as well as defending against water and soil quality degradation and securing habitat for fish and wildlife,” said Ruth Thornton, Ann Arbor Greenbelt Program Manager with The Conservation Fund. “We are grateful to U.S. Senator Stabenow for her leadership and ongoing support for healthy and vibrant communities here and across Michigan." The bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill created a first-of-its-kind approach to conservation through partnerships between agriculture and conservation groups to preserve land and water, restore habitats for hunting and fishing, and protect the Great Lakes. These locally-led partnerships leverage private and public dollars to bring together partners to address regional conservation issues. In Michigan alone, ten projects have received over $57 million in federal funding, which is matched by over $57 million in partner contributions. To build on this progress, Senator Stabenow recently introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen regional conservation partnerships in the upcoming 2018 Farm Bill. The Regional Conservation Partnership Program Improvement Act will provide more resources for partners to expand the reach of conservation projects, while cutting red-tape and increasing flexibility to attract new participants.
12.26.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Marquette Mayor Tom Baldini Tuesday, December 26, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow tonight released the following statement on the passing of Tom Baldini, Mayor of Marquette: “Tom Baldini has been an icon in Michigan Democratic politics and the ultimate champion for our UP. His life epitomized the meaning of public service. He was a mentor to so many over the years, and I always valued his friendship and advice. Although his passing leaves a big void, his legacy is a lasting reminder to all of us of what it means to serve. My thoughts and prayers are with Tom’s family at this very difficult time.”
12.21.2017	Senator Stabenow Nominates 44 Michigan Students to Military Academies Thursday, December 21, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced today that she has nominated 44 Michigan students for placement at the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY, the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. “Michigan is fortunate to have so many exceptional students who want to serve our country through military service,” said Senator Stabenow. “Having demonstrated a strong commitment to excellence in and out of the classroom, I am confident they will represent Michigan and our country well.” Students seeking appointment to a service academy must first obtain the nomination of their U.S. Senator, their U.S. Representative, or the Vice President. Students nominated by Senator Stabenow’s office went through a highly competitive application process that included interviews by veteran, military and community leaders. Now that the students have been nominated, they must await acceptance for admission by the academy to which they have applied. The following students have been nominated by Senator Stabenow to a service academy (by region): Southeast Michigan: Kathryn LeWalk – Redford, West Point Madison Tolston – Commerce Township, West Point Richard Russel – Kimball Township, West Point Megan Hutter – Farmington Hills, West Point Alexandre Jund – Northville, West Point Emma Coenen – Armada, West Point Samantha Chinn – Bloomfield Hills, West Point Ashley Ruiz – Taylor, West Point Zachary Loyd – Rochester Hills, West Point Lauren Wegener – Rochester Hills, West Point Dillon Massey – White Lake, West Point Joshua Klein – West Bloomfield, West Point Benjamin Pyle – Ypsilanti, West Point James Kaleel – Ortonville, Merchant Marine Academy John Libcke – West Bloomfield, Merchant Marine Academy Jared Jenkins – Detroit, Air Force Academy Jame Huang – Northville, Air Force Academy Nickolas Presley – Macomb, Air Force Academy Grant Davis – Bloomfield Hills, Air Force Academy Danielle Parker – Shelby Township, Air Force Academy Paritosh Coomar – Monroe, Air Force Academy Matthew Gu – West Bloomfield, Naval Academy Michael Berger – Chesterfield, Naval Academy Katelyn McKinley – Chelsea, Naval Academy Rory Cox – Livonia, Naval Academy Vivian Harber – Bloomfield Hills, Naval Academy West Michigan: Emma Shea – Middleville, West Point Sarah Guzzo – Battle Creek, West Point Luke Edgerly – Richland, Air Force Academy Seth Benscoter – Mattawan, Naval Academy Nathaniel Nisonger – Vestaburg, Naval Academy Upper Peninsula: Mackenzie Kalchik – Sault Ste Marie, West Point Northern Michigan: Grace Martin – Traverse City – West Point Reilly Ingleson – Petoskey, West Point Charles Prescott – Prescott, Merchant Marine Academy Madison May – Lewiston, Air Force Academy Kelly Klettner – Traverse City, Naval Academy Mid-Michigan: Christopher LeTarte – Eaton Rapids, West Point Seth Maloney – Pleasant Lake, West Point Gavin McGahey – Brighton, Merchant Marine Academy Allyson Burba – Okemos, Air Force Academy Avi Rajendra-Nicolucci – Okemos, Naval Academy Flint/Saginaw Bay Region: Frederick Heidt – Owosso, Air Force Academy Mackenzie Stottmeister – Grand Blanc, Naval Academy
12.20.2017	Stabenow Statement Following Vote on Republican Tax Bill Conference Report Wednesday, December 20, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following the Senate’s vote on the Republican tax bill conference report: “We need tax reform that puts more money in the pockets of the middle class, closes tax loopholes that send jobs overseas and supports small businesses and farms across Michigan—unfortunately, this bill does none of these things. This bill actually raises taxes on middle-class families and seniors and leaves Michigan families without health insurance to pay for huge tax giveaways for the wealthiest one percent of Americans. This was a missed opportunity to work together in a bipartisan way on real tax reform.”
12.14.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces Legislation to Improve Veterans Health Care Thursday, December 14, 2017 After repeated complaints from providers, veterans, and hospitals across the state, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced new legislation, the Veterans Deserve Better Act, to address serious problems in the federal Veterans Choice program. The Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, which was signed into law in 2014, was designed to reduce wait times and provide medical services to veterans in their own communities. This program is especially critical for veterans in rural areas who were previously required to travel long distances for services. However, since it was enacted, providers across the state have not been getting paid, rural hospitals have pulled out, and veterans are not getting the health care they need. “The Veterans Choice program was designed to make sure veterans can receive services close to home and in a timely way, but it has failed many of those it was intended to serve,” said Senator Stabenow. “My new legislation will hold the Administration accountable and ensure that these serious issues are addressed quickly so that our veterans get the care they deserve.” Senator Stabenow’s bill has three parts. First, it will reduce wait times for veterans by requiring that appointments be made within five days and making sure veterans seeking care have the information they need in advance of scheduling an appointment. Second, it will require the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to hold private contractors accountable for the care they schedule on behalf of veterans, and ensure reporting and follow-up of delayed appointments. Third, it will require prompt payment to Veterans Choice Program providers by requiring the VA to pay for or deny payment within 30 days of receiving an electronic claim or 45 days of receiving a paper claim. It will also require the VA to pay, deny, or request additional information on any outstanding unpaid claims within 45 days of enactment. “Munson Healthcare is committed to serving the healthcare needs of the veterans in our region,” said Edwin A. Ness, President and CEO, Munson Healthcare. “Unfortunately, unlike other veteran programs, the Veterans Choice Program has resulted in confusion for veterans and significant non-payment for healthcare providers. Therefore, we greatly appreciate Senator Stabenow’s introduction of this legislation and its focus on improving access to care for veterans while also holding private contractors accountable for prompt payments to providers." “In 2016, I was diagnosed with lesions on my brain and needed to see a specialist. Veterans Choice sent me to the wrong doctor two times, causing me to miss work and have to travel long distances,” said Jerry Sorensen, former National Guardsman who was stationed in Greenville and now lives in Sumner Township in Gratiot County. “I contacted Senator Stabenow about my issue, and shortly after, Veterans Choice scheduled an appointment with the right specialist. It shouldn’t have taken five months to see the doctor I needed, especially for something this scary and serious. I know I’m not the only veteran in Michigan who has experienced these problems scheduling an appointment. I want to thank Senator Stabenow for introducing a bill today to address this problem for all our veterans.” Veterans health care has been a longstanding priority for Senator Stabenow. She championed the effort to open new and expanded VA clinics across the state, including in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Cheboygan County, Grayling, Oscoda, and Wyoming.
12.07.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces Bipartisan Legislation to Give Veterans Same Preventive Health Services as General Public Thursday, December 07, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced bipartisan legislation to give veterans the same preventive health insurance coverage as the general public. The Veterans Preventive Health Coverage Fairness Act will ensure many veterans will no longer have to pay out-of-pocket costs for preventive health services that are provided free to other Americans. This legislation also adds preventive medications and services to the list of no-fee treatments covered by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. “It’s unacceptable that our veterans who rely on VA care must pay for preventive medications and services that other Americans receive for free,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is just one more step we need to take to keep our promises to our Veterans.” According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, this legislation will impact many of the over 230,000 veterans enrolled in the VA Healthcare System in Michigan. Currently, veterans are required to pay VA copayments if their income exceeds the VA National Income Threshold, if their income isn’t available to the VA or if their care is not related to a service-connected illness or injury. The Veterans Preventive Health Coverage Fairness Act is endorsed by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans and American Veterans. Senator Stabenow is a cosponsor of the Veterans Preventive Health Coverage Fairness Act introduced by Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Susan Collins (R-ME) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT).
12.06.2017	Michigan Delegation Members Encourage Strong EPA Role in Addressing Water Contamination Sites in Belmont, Military Installations Across State Wednesday, December 06, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) today led a letter from members of the Michigan delegation encouraging a strong Environmental Protection Agency role to address water contamination across the state, including the Belmont area and several military installations. In addition to Stabenow, Peters, and Upton, Representatives Dan Kildee (MI-05), Dave Trott (MI-11), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Sander Levin (MI-09), Jack Bergman (MI-01), Paul Mitchell (MI-10), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Tim Walberg (MI-07), Justin Amash (MI-03), Mike Bishop (MI-08), and Bill Huizenga (MI-02) signed the letter. “We write to urge the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to continue to actively engage in assisting the State of Michigan’s and the Department of Defense’s efforts to address serious public health threats stemming from exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) across multiple communities in our state,” wrote the lawmakers. “As you are aware, these substances break down very slowly in the environment and remain in the blood and organs of exposed humans and wildlife for years. Exposure to these chemical compounds are linked to cancer as well as thyroid, kidney, liver, and reproductive problems.” A signed copy of the letter is attached to this release and the full text may be found below. December 5, 2017 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We write to urge the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to continue to actively engage in assisting the State of Michigan’s and the Department of Defense’s efforts to address serious public health threats stemming from exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) across multiple communities in our state. This problem is of such severity that the State of Michigan recently created a PFAS Action Response Team. We also believe that further engagement by the EPA on this growing problem is consistent with your stated goal of refocusing the agency on actions that directly protect public health and safety. As you are aware, these substances break down very slowly in the environment and remain in the blood and organs of exposed humans and wildlife for years. Exposure to these chemical compounds are linked to cancer as well as thyroid, kidney, liver, and reproductive problems. Over the past several months, a growing list of communities that span the state of Michigan are uncovering alarmingly high levels of PFOA and PFOS in soil, ground and drinking waters. Tainted soil and groundwater in Western Michigan have been found to contain PFOS and PFOA concentrations as high as 37,800 parts-per-trillion (ppt), more than 500 times the EPA’s health advisory level of 70 ppt. In addition, PFOA and PFOS have been found in raw and treated water in Ann Arbor. PFOA and PFOS have also been detected in waters and fish across Michigan, including in the Au Sable River, Flint River, Kalamazoo River, Muskegon River, Saginaw River, St. Joseph River, Tahquamenon River, Dead River, Thunder Bay River, Rogue River and St. Marys River; as well as in parts of Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, and Lake Erie. PFOA and PFOS from Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) used at active and decommissioned military bases have leached on and off-base. In Oscoda, PFOS has been identified in a lake near a legacy Air Force base at levels that reportedly exceed 100,000 ppt, as well as in private drinking wells of surrounding homes. These chemicals have also been discovered in and around Camp Grayling National Guard training base in Grayling and in private drinking wells near the former K.I. Sawyer Air Force base in Marquette. Thank you for your consideration of this request and for providing our offices with information on EPA’s engagement on this matter to date. We look forward to your expedient response.
12.02.2017	Stabenow Statement on Announcement of Rep. Sandy Levin Retirement Saturday, December 02, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on the news that Congressman Sandy Levin (MI-09) will not seek reelection: “For 35 years, the people of Southeast Michigan have known that they could count on Sandy Levin to fight for them in Washington. Every day Sandy has made the people of Michigan his top priority: expanding access to health care, protecting Social Security and unemployment insurance, championing American jobs and workers, supporting our American auto industry, and protecting our Great Lakes. He’s also been a wonderful partner and a true friend. It has been my honor to work alongside Sandy Levin on behalf of Michigan families.”
12.02.2017	Stabenow Statement Following Senate Vote on Republican Tax Bill Saturday, December 02, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement following the Senate’s vote on the Republican tax bill: “I’ve said from the beginning that we need tax reform that makes the tax system simpler, puts more money in your pocket, closes tax loopholes that send jobs overseas and supports small businesses and farms across Michigan. Unfortunately, that isn’t at all what this Republican bill does. “I voted no because I could not support raising taxes on middle-class families, seniors, and farmers and leaving Michigan families without health insurance to pay for huge tax giveaways for the wealthiest one percent of Americans. “This was a lost opportunity to work together in a bipartisan way on real tax reform. I will continue working to reform our tax code to help middle-class families, small businesses, farmers, and manufacturers.”
11.27.2017	Stabenow, Peters Raise Alarm over Delay in Finalizing Critical Asian Carp Study Senators express serious concerns over the timeline for implementing permanent measures to combat Asian carp Monday, November 27, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, sent a letter to the acting Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works raising alarm over the delay in finalizing the Brandon Road Study, a critical action-plan for keeping Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. Upon news of a second extension of the comment period for a new public meeting in New Orleans, the Senators expressed serious concern once again over the Army Corps’ timeline for implementing permanent measures to combat Asian carp. “We appreciate the efforts of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to develop and assess the alternatives presented in the Brandon Road Study, but we would reiterate the same comments we have heard from Michigan residents: this process is taking far too long,” wrote the Senators. “Current estimates indicate it will take as long as eight years to have a barrier installed at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam. This timeframe is simply unacceptable with Asian carp having been discovered closer and closer to the Great Lakes, including an adult Asian carp captured above the electric barrier, just 9 miles from Lake Michigan.” “Despite the need for timely action, the USACE’s recent decision to provide a second extension of the comment period for the Brandon Road Study was very disappointing,” the Senators continued. “It is our understanding that the USACE granted another extension to accommodate a public meeting in New Orleans. If the USACE concluded this meeting was necessary, why was it not scheduled after the first extension of the comment period?” A PDF of the letter is attached to this release and the full text may be found below. Ryan A. Fisher Acting Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Army (Civil Works) 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0101 Dear Acting Assistant Secretary Fisher, The Brandon Road Draft Integrated Feasibility Study and Environmental Impact Statement (Brandon Road Study) is a critical step towards protecting the Great Lakes from Asian carp. Although we believe a physical separation of the basins is the most assured path to stopping Asian carp, the alternatives presented in the Brandon Road Study are a step in the right direction. However, time is of the essence to put in place a permanent barrier and robust controls that stop Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. We appreciate the efforts of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to develop and assess the alternatives presented in the Brandon Road Study, but we would reiterate the same comments we have heard from Michigan residents: this process is taking far too long. Current estimates indicate it will take as long as eight years to have a barrier installed at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam. This timeframe is simply unacceptable with Asian carp having been discovered closer and closer to the Great Lakes, including an adult Asian carp captured above the electric barrier, just 9 miles from Lake Michigan. Despite the need for timely action, the USACE’s recent decision to provide a second extension of the comment period for the Brandon Road Study was very disappointing. It is our understanding that the USACE granted another extension to accommodate a public meeting in New Orleans. If the USACE concluded this meeting was necessary, why was it not scheduled after the first extension of the comment period? Thank you for providing an answer to this question and informing us as to when the USACE first received a request for a public meeting in New Orleans. The USACE has stated that the additional time for public comments will not delay the completion of a Chief’s Report in August 2019. While we appreciate this goal, the USACE should finish the Report by January 2019. This is the original deadline that we can only assume was pushed back to August as result of the Administration’s decision to delay the Study’s release by several months. Aside from the timeframe for completing the Chief’s Report and implementing permanent structural solutions, we ask that the USACE allow for interim measures such as deploying complex noise at Brandon Road as soon as possible. In addition, we ask the USACE to utilize existing authorities provided by Congress to institute navigation protocols that would reduce the risk of Asian carp being inadvertently carried or pushed through Lock and Dams in the Illinois River and the electric barrier outside of Chicago. It is our understanding that this action would be perhaps the most effective way in the near term to reduce the likelihood of Asian carp reaching the Great Lakes. As for the draft Brandon Road Study, we are concerned that while the experts appeared significantly divided in their opinions (Appendix C), the USACE presented the information (Figure ES-6) in an overly simplistic manner that could lead to misunderstandings about the risks or benefits associated with each alternative solution to addressing Asian carp. To be clear, the establishment of bighead or silver carp would be disastrous for the Great Lakes and our outdoor economy, and there is no acceptable level of risk for that occurring. We also have concerns about some of the variables utilized in the economic study (Sections 5.4-5.7). In particular, it appears that the USACE looked exclusively at three industries on Lake Erie to conclude that the establishment of Asian carp in seven out of nine scenarios would result in a “negligible to positive” result for the local commercial, recreational, and charter fishing industries. We fail to see how the establishment of these species would result in a positive impact on economies and industries reliant on strong sport fish populations, particularly when Section 5.3.3 explains that peer reviewed modeling concludes that “Asian carp have the potential to become a dominant species in the Great Lakes and tributaries.” We would ask that the USACE reassess how this economic study was carried out and review the value it adds to assessing the benefits and costs of each alternative. The USACE should not ignore the impact of Asian carp on several important industries – including recreation and tourism – or the economic impacts to the other Great Lakes besides Lake Erie. We believe a more comprehensive approach to assessing the basin wide impacts of Asian carp establishment on our Great Lakes economy is necessary. The Great Lakes are a bedrock of our economy, both regionally and nationally, and we cannot risk harming them by allowing Asian carp to invade. Thank you for responding to the specific questions we raise in this letter and for including this letter in the official record of public comments.
11.08.2017	Senator Stabenow: Veterans Day Floor Statement Wednesday, November 08, 2017 U.S. Senator Stabenow paid tribute to Michigan veterans, including Medal of Honor recipient James McCloughan, in advance of Veterans Day. Text of her Floor Statement: Mr. President: I rise today to reflect on Veterans Day and the debt of gratitude each of us owes those who are willing to serve our country in our armed forces. Each year I have the honor of attending Veterans Day events across Michigan. And at each parade, commemoration and solemn ceremony, I am struck not only by the profound patriotism of our veterans, but by their deep humility and lasting dedication to serving others. One amazing example of this is Jim McCloughan of South Haven. In May of 1969, he was 23 years old and far from home, serving as a medic in Vietnam after being drafted into the Army. The orders were to attack Nui Yon Hill. However, Private First Class McCloughan and his company were surrounded by more than 2,000 enemy fighters. Over two days of battle, PFC McCloughan put himself in danger time and time again in order to rescue his fallen brothers. His head and arm were bloodied by shrapnel and small-arms fire. Yet he refused to stop. When the battle was over, he had saved the lives of 10 members of his company. PFC McCloughan received the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, and The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, among other awards. He was a hero in every sense of the word. However, he remained focused on only one thing: How he could best serve others. And that’s just what he did. Jim McCloughan returned home and taught and coached at South Haven High School until retiring in 2008. That might have been where his story ended had it not been for his one-time platoon leader, Lt. Randall J. Clark. Lt. Clark never forgot about PFC McCloughan’s heroism and worked tirelessly to get him the recognition he had earned. In 2016, I passed a bill to make PFC McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor. And in July, I was honored to be at the White House as PFC McCloughan was finally awarded the Medal of Honor by President Donald Trump. Jim McCloughan’s story is extraordinary, but he’s not alone. Across our nation – and throughout our history – people of common backgrounds and uncommon courage have put their lives on the line in defense of our nation. And time and again, these brave men and women have come home only to continue serving – in our schools, churches, elected offices, and civic organizations. Veterans like Jim owe us nothing and keep giving us everything. It’s our solemn duty to keep our promises to them. Like Lt. Clark, we must continue working to provide them all that they’ve earned, whether it’s health care, education, the chance at a good job, or the Medal of Honor. “I’m humbled, very humbled,” Jim McCloughan said about receiving his award. “And, of course – as many individuals who are blessed to receive something like this – I’m receiving it for all of my men.” The spirit of service lives on in Jim McCloughan, in Lt. Clark, and in our veterans in Michigan and across this nation. On this Veterans Day, we remember them, we thank them, and we renew our commitment to serving them. Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.
11.08.2017	Stabenow Calls on Trump Administration to Support Additional Funding to Combat Opioid Epidemic Wednesday, November 08, 2017 Following last week’s declaration of the opioid epidemic as a national public health emergency, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) joined 21 other Senators calling on President Trump to provide the necessary funding to combat the opioid epidemic. Only $57,000 is currently available in the Public Health Emergency Fund, which is not enough to make a meaningful difference in the face of an epidemic that claimed nearly 60,000 lives last year. In 2015, Michigan had the seventh most deaths of any state in the country and close to 2,000 people lost their lives from a drug overdose. “We appreciate your formal declaration that the opioid epidemic is a National Public Health Emergency. While this is a positive step forward, more action must be taken in order to craft a timely and effective national strategy that will achieve long term solutions to this crisis. Specifically, we are concerned that your declaration does not yet include any additional funding resources for key programs and initiatives that will help our patients, providers, first responders and researchers who desperately need more assistance,” wrote the senators. “As such, we encourage your Administration to work closely with Congress to swiftly provide the necessary additional and sustained funding to carry out a multi-faceted approach that supports activities related to research, education, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation.” Last week, Senator Stabenow sent a letter asking President Trump to follow the recommendations of his Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis and allow the government to negotiate lower prices for naloxone, a life-saving opioid overdose reversal drug. The signed copy of the letter is attached to this release and the full text may be found below. November 3, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: We appreciate your formal declaration that the opioid epidemic is a National Public Health Emergency. While this is a positive step forward, more action must be taken in order to craft a timely and effective national strategy that will achieve long term solutions to this crisis. Specifically, we are concerned that your declaration does not yet include any additional funding resources for key programs and initiatives that will help our patients, providers, first responders and researchers who desperately need more assistance. Your declaration allows the Secretary of Health and Human Services to allocate money from the Public Health Emergency Fund to support health activities and other measures to address public health emergencies. However, only $57,000 is currently available in the Emergency Fund, which is not enough to make a meaningful difference in the face of an epidemic that claimed nearly 60,000 lives last year. In fact, according to a recent analysis done by the National Institute on Drug Abuse in May 2017, the total cost of treating prescription opioid use disorders and responding to overdoses in the United States in 2013 was $78 billion, $28.9 billion of which was for treatment. Researchers, providers, patients, first responders, experts and policy makers agree that investing sufficient and timely resources are of paramount importance in order to allow our communities to effectively combat this epidemic. The President’s Commission on Combatting Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis agrees. The final Commission report released this week recommends that your Administration increase access to treatment and recovery programs, as well as expand the capacity for medication-assisted treatment and first responder access to overdose reversal drugs. As such, we encourage your Administration to work closely with Congress to swiftly provide the necessary additional and sustained funding to carry out a multi-faceted approach that supports activities related to research, education, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. We stand ready to work with you on crafting an overall strategy to combat the opioid epidemic and urge you to support the additional funding needed to stem the tide of this public health emergency.
11.07.2017	Stabenow, Peters Raise Serious Concerns about Line 5 Pipeline Conditions and Call for Investigation into Enbridge’s Compliance with Reporting and Safety Requirements Tuesday, November 07, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today raised serious concerns about the current conditions of Enbridge’s Line 5 Pipeline and called for an investigation into whether Enbridge complied with reporting and safety requirements. The Senators sent letters to the CEO of Enbridge and the head of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) following recent news reports that Enbridge did not disclose problems in the protective coating of the Line 5 Pipeline for more than three years. “Despite Enbridge knowing about the damage in 2014 and conducting a full suite of inspections throughout the summer of 2016, we are just learning now—in 2017—of damage to the protective coatings,” the Senators wrote in a letter to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. “Michiganders need assurance about the integrity and safety of operating Line 5 in a high consequence, unusually sensitive area and that any problems will be addressed quickly and transparently. We ask PHMSA to determine whether Enbridge committed any violations with respect to the pipeline integrity management program, their reporting requirements to PHMSA, and safety requirements to maintain the integrity of Line 5.” “It is apparent to us that further changes are needed in the institutional procedures and culture at Enbridge to ensure accurate reporting, transparency, and communication of pipeline integrity management,” the Senators wrote in a letter to the CEO of Enbridge. “Given the critical risk this pipeline poses to public health and safety, please respond to the following questions: “What is being done to correct internal reporting procedures at Enbridge to ensure that damage sustained by pipelines and the coatings that protect these pipelines against corrosion is accurately communicated throughout the company and to our offices and the state regulators? “Are there any additional portions of Line 5 with anomalies of any type to any of the coatings covering the pipeline that have not been reported? Were any additional sites identified needing further inspection or repairs of any sort since September 13th? “How can we be certain that no other damage to either the pipeline or its protective coatings has occurred and that state regulators, federal agencies providing oversight, and our offices are fully informed?” Signed copies of the Senators’ letters to Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrator Howard Elliott and Enbridge CEO Al Monaco are attached to this release and the full text may be found below. November 7, 2017 Administrator Howard Elliott U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Administrator Elliott, We write to express our deep concerns regarding the recent disclosure of damage and gaps in the protective coatings on segments of Pipeline #5 (“Line 5”), owned and operated by Enbridge Pipeline Inc., located at the Straits of Mackinac (“the Straits”) between Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. This newly-public information raises additional concerns about the operation of a pipeline in a high consequence and unusually sensitive area. We request the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration to examine these recent events for any pipeline safety or reporting violations. In 2014, support anchors were installed along the underwater segment of Line 5 at the Straits to ensure that no unsupported span would exceed 75 feet, the limit granted as part of the 1953 easement that permitted construction of Line 5. During this maintenance in 2014, damage occurred to the coatings that protect the pipeline from corrosion with the full knowledge of Enbridge engineering staff, according to a media statement released by Enbridge on October 27, 2017. Despite Enbridge knowing about the damage in 2014 and conducting a full suite of inspections throughout the summer of 2016, we are just learning now—in 2017—of damage to the protective coatings. The underwater visual inspection of Line 5 occurred in June of 2016 with an autonomous underwater vehicle and remote operated vehicle, as required by Enbridge’s consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency. This supposedly thorough and detailed inspection apparently missed damaged areas as large as 13 feet by 1 foot 7 inches that are only now being reported over a year later. Alternatively, Enbridge did not disclose the damaged areas. Inaccurate reporting or lack of notification does not follow the intent of pipeline integrity management programs. “Deficient and ineffective” integrity management programs have previously contributed to devastating events like the San Bruno pipeline explosion in September of 2010, which killed 8 people, destroyed 38 homes, damaged 70 additional homes, and injured many others]. The lack of disclosure by Enbridge in 2014, along with either inaccurate inspection reporting or the lack of detection during the 2016 inspections, are issues that must be addressed. Title 49 of the Code of Federal Section 195.452 requires establishing pipeline integrity management plans in high consequence areas. Subsection h establishes the requirement for operators to “take prompt action to address all anomalous conditions” and provide notification to the Administrator of anomalous conditions. Appendix C to Part 195 further clarifies conditions that may impair a pipeline’s integrity, including “any change since the previous assessment” and “mechanical damage that is located on the top side of the pipeline.” Disturbed coating areas measuring over 20 square feet in area and holidays in the coatings exposing bare metal measuring greater than 1 square foot in area are highly anomalous. Changes in the condition of the pipeline since prior assessments, resulting from mechanical damage, are a threat to the safety and integrity of Line 5. Specifically, we request that PHMSA investigate Enbridge’s reporting actions and the condition of Line 5 at the Straits to determine the integrity of the pipeline in light of recent reporting on the damage to the protective coatings on the pipeline. Michiganders need assurance about the integrity and safety of operating Line 5 in a high consequence, unusually sensitive area and that any problems will be addressed quickly and transparently. We ask PHMSA to determine whether Enbridge committed any violations with respect to the pipeline integrity management program, their reporting requirements to PHMSA, and safety requirements to maintain the integrity of Line 5. November 7, 2017 Al Monaco Chief Executive Officer Enbridge Pipeline Inc. 3000 Fifth Avenue Place 425 - 1st Street S.W. Calgary, AB T2P 3L8 Dear Mr. Monaco: We are writing to express great concern about the current condition of Enbridge’s Pipeline #5 (“Line 5”), and the accuracy of previous communications we have had with your company regarding this segment that crosses the Straits of Mackinac. On March 10, 2017, we sent you a letter that inquired about the integrity of several layers of protective coating on Line 5, as well as the inspection and remedial practices your company follows to ensure the integrity of the underlying pipeline. On April 6, we received a response from Enbridge Vice President of U.S. Operations, Bradley Shamla, informing us that the Biota Investigation Work Plan showed “no indication of any anomaly with the outer wrap or other elements of the coating, including the enamel layer that covers the pipeline.” Moreover, the letter detailed the company’s broad suite of inspection processes and tools -- including the use of Remote Operated Vehicles, In-line Inspections, and around the clock remote monitoring of the cathodic protection system on the dual pipes that cross the Straits. Despite these assurances and inspection measures, your company recently disclosed extensive loss of enamel coatings on Line 5. This includes eight different areas of the pipeline that are without any protective coating, leaving bare metal exposed to the harsh underwater environment. We understand that all but one of these areas are 7 inches or more in diameter, and perhaps most troubling, that your company was aware of these damages since 2014. According to your company’s public statements, “internal reporting issues” are to blame for the discrepancies between the facts on the ground and the information provided to our offices and to state regulators. This explanation is simply unacceptable. Your company’s leadership has repeatedly told us that the segment of Line 5 under the Straits is the most closely monitored pipeline in your network. Enbridge’s Vice President of Pipeline Integrity has publically stated that Line 5 “really is as good as new.” In addition, your company has repeatedly described to our offices the procedural, cultural, and institutional changes that have been implemented to prevent a pipeline rupture like that which occurred near Marshall in 2010 from ever happening again. It is apparent to us that further changes are needed in the institutional procedures and culture at Enbridge to ensure accurate reporting, transparency, and communication of pipeline integrity management. Given the critical risk this pipeline poses to public health and safety, please respond to the following questions: What is being done to correct internal reporting procedures at Enbridge to ensure that damage sustained by pipelines and the coatings that protect these pipelines against corrosion is accurately communicated throughout the company and to our offices and the state regulators? We are concerned by the increased number of reported locations along Line 5 with damage. Initial reports of two “Band-Aid” sized bare spots and an additional suspected location at the end of August 2017 expanded to eight locations, eight holidays ranging in size from 1.5 square inches to over a square foot, and six features being addressed in the repair work plan dated September 13th, 2017. Are there any additional portions of Line 5 with anomalies of any type to any of the coatings covering the pipeline that have not been reported? Were any additional sites identified needing further inspection or repairs of any sort since September 13th? Given the internal reporting issues and increasing number of reported sites with damage to protective coatings on the pipeline, we are concerned that additional issues have not been clearly communicated to state regulators and federal agencies providing oversight. How can we be certain that no other damage to either the pipeline or its protective coatings has occurred and that state regulators, federal agencies providing oversight, and our offices are fully informed? We are dedicated to protecting the Great Lakes, and want to hear your responses to our inquiries so that we can ensure the health and safety of the millions of people who rely on the Great Lakes for drinking water, recreations, and jobs.
11.03.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce over $1.5 Million in Great Lakes Funding for Grand Traverse Bay Friday, November 03, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced $1,589,664 in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) funding for three projects in Grand Traverse Bay to protect against invasive species and improve water quality. GLRI is critical to cleaning up our Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways for swimming, boating, and fishing; fighting invasive species like Asian carp; and protecting our Michigan way of life. The Nature Conservancy will receive a $550,070 grant to remove invasive species that harm native fish populations like Lake Trout, Cisco, and Whitefish across the Great Lakes Basin, including Grand Traverse Bay. The Grand Traverse Conservation District will receive a $539,605 grant to improve water quality by preventing the spread of invasive plant species in northwest Michigan, including the Lake Michigan Dunes, Misty Acres Preserve, Trapp Farm, Timbers Recreation Area, and Reffitt Nature Preserve. The Watershed Center of Grand Traverse Bay will receive a $499,989 grant to improve water quality in nearby Kids Creek which flows to Lake Michigan. The project is expected to capture and treat approximately 177 million gallons of stormwater per year. “One in five Michigan jobs are tied to water,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “Nowhere is this more evident than the Grand Traverse region. This investment is a reminder of the importance of federal funding to protect our Great Lakes and grow our state’s economy.” “This is an important investment that will help community partners protect and preserve the quality of Grand Traverse Bay, which supports tourism, fishing and shipping industries in Northwest Michigan, said Senator Peters, member of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes are part of our way of life in Michigan, and continued federal funding for our state’s many waterways is critical to the health of our environment and economy.” According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. Michigan projects have received more than $600 million in funding from the GLRI since its establishment. Michigan has an estimated 2,850 miles of coastal water trails as well as an estimated 1,280 miles of inland water trails.
10.26.2017	Stabenow, Brown, Wyden, Cardin, Casey Call on Republican Leaders to Protect Retirement Savings Accounts in Tax Plan Thursday, October 26, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following recent reports that congressional Republicans are considering cuts to 401(k)s and other retirement plans in their upcoming tax bill, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Bob Casey (D-PA) today called on Republican leaders not to reduce or eliminate incentives for retirement savings. In their letter, the Senators expressed their strong support for President Trump’s recent commitment to protect retirement savings plans. “We are alarmed by reports that you continue to consider “Rothification” or severely limiting how much Americans can contribute to their retirement accounts,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter to Republican leaders. “Reducing the opportunities that millions of Americans have to save for their retirement and secure their standard of living in old age will only serve to put their future financial security more at risk. Consistent with President Trump’s commitment, we urge you not to include any proposals in forthcoming legislation that would eliminate or curtail retirement savings incentives.” The signed copy of the letter is attached to this release and the full text may be found below. October 26, 2017 The Honorable Steven T. Mnuchin Mr. Gary D. Cohn Secretary of the Treasury Chief Economic Advisor U.S. Department of the Treasury The White House 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20220 Washington, DC 20500 Senator Mitch McConnell Representative Paul D. Ryan Senate Majority Leader Speaker of the House 317 Russell Senate Office Building 1233 Longworth HOB Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20515 Senator Orrin Hatch Representative Kevin Brady Chairman Chairman Senate Finance Committee Committee on Ways and Means 219 Dirksen Senate Office Building 1102 Longworth HOB Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Secretary Mnuchin, Mr. Cohn, Leader McConnell, Speaker Ryan, Chairman Hatch and Chairman Brady: We write to express our strong support for President Trump’s recent position that forthcoming legislation should not reduce or eliminate incentives for retirement savings. We could not agree more that these are critical middle class tax incentives that work, and are key to ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to save for retirement. We are alarmed by reports that you continue to consider “Rothification” or severely limiting how much Americans can contribute to their retirement accounts. Experts estimate that Americans have saved between $6.8 trillion and $14 trillion less than what they would need to have a secure retirement. Indeed, only 18 percent of Americans are “very confident” that they have saved enough for retirement. The upfront tax deduction for contributions is a powerful tool in encouraging working and middle class Americans to save for retirement. Reducing the opportunities that millions of Americans have to save for their retirement and secure their standard of living in old age will only serve to put their future financial security more at risk. In addition to being problematic, these proposals are deeply unpopular. Ninety percent of Americans oppose limiting how much an individual or employer can contribute to their retirement account. Over 60 percent of workers between ages 45 and 64 who participate in 401(k)s for a full year contribute more than $2,400, and could be affected by your efforts to limit these accounts. Tax reform that is guided by the principle of helping the middle class get ahead simply cannot require retirement savers to foot the bill. Consistent with President Trump’s commitment, we urge you not to include any proposals in forthcoming legislation that would eliminate or curtail retirement savings incentives.
10.25.2017	Stabenow Calls on President to Allow Government to Negotiate Lower Prices for Naloxone, a Life-Saving Opioid Overdose Reversal Drug Wednesday, October 25, 2017 As the White House finalizes its emergency declaration on opioid abuse, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) called on President Trump to follow the recommendations of his Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis and allow the government to negotiate lower prices for naloxone, a life-saving opioid overdose reversal drug. Drug overdoses are the leading cause of death for Americans under 50 and access to naloxone is critical given the magnitude of the opioid epidemic. Stabenow made the request in a letter to President Trump that was signed by U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Angus King (I-ME), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Joe Donnelly (D-IN). “The opioid epidemic now claims 142 deaths per day, and it is still getting worse,” wrote the Senators. “Unfortunately, the price of [naloxone] has increased dramatically during the epidemic. The prices are highest for newer devices that make delivery of the medication easier. Narcan, which administers naloxone as a nasal spray, costs $150 for a two pack and Evzio, a naloxone auto-injector, has increased from $690 in 2014 to $4,500 today for a two pack.” “Your Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and Opioid Crisis recommends dramatically increasing access to naloxone, and says that ‘by declaring a national emergency, you can empower the HHS Secretary to negotiate reduced pricing for all governmental units,’” the Senators added. “We strongly agree with the recommendation, and urge you to give the Secretary this authority immediately. By doing so, you can put this important medication in the hands of more people and save lives.” A signed copy of the letter is attached to this release and the full text may be found below. October 25, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you finalize the emergency declaration on opioid abuse, we urge you to follow the recommendations of your Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis and allow the government to negotiate lower prices for life-saving opioid overdose reversal drugs. The opioid epidemic now claims 142 lives every day, and it is still getting worse. Drug overdoses are the leading cause of death for Americans under 50, exceeding the peak car crash deaths and H.I.V. deaths decades earlier. Access to naloxone, a life-saving opioid overdose reversal drug, is particularly important given the magnitude of the epidemic. Initially approved by the FDA in 1971, naloxone is used in hospitals and emergency rooms, by first responders, and by members of our communities to revive victims and restart their breathing. Unfortunately, the price of the drug itself has increased dramatically during the epidemic. The prices are highest for newer devices that make delivering the medication easier. Narcan, which administers naloxone as a nasal spray, costs $150 for a two pack and Evzio, a naloxone auto-injector, has increased from $690 in 2014 to $4,500 today for a two pack. Your Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and Opioid Crisis recommends dramatically increasing access to naloxone, and says that “By declaring a national emergency, you can empower the HHS Secretary to negotiate reduced pricing for all governmental units.” We strongly agree with the recommendation, and urge you to give the Secretary this authority immediately. By doing so, you can put this life-saving medication in the hands of more people and save lives. We hope the policy will be the first step towards substantial action to bring down the cost of all drugs through negotiation and other policies, and part of a comprehensive emergency declaration that includes the investments needed to end the epidemic.
10.23.2017	Stabenow, Peters Lead Bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force Letter to OMB Director Calling for $300 Million for Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in Next Year’s Budget Monday, October 23, 2017 – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters (D-MI), a member of the Task Force, today led a bipartisan letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney calling for $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to be included in the Fiscal Year 2019 budget request. Great Lakes Task Force Co-Chair Rob Portman (R-OH), Vice Chairs Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Todd Young (R-IN), and Task Force members Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Bob Casey (D-PA), Al Franken (D-MN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) also signed the letter. “Now is not the time to scale back our nation’s commitment to restore the Great Lakes environment and economy,” wrote the lawmakers. “Because of the partnership we have with federal agencies our region is making progress and seeing results. The GLRI is a locally driven restoration effort and its success depends on the collaboration between all levels of government and with industrial, commercial, and non-governmental partners. We again ask that you include $300 million for the GLRI in next year’s budget request.” A PDF of the letter is attached to this release and the full text may be found below. Dear Director Mulvaney: As you work on the Administration’s fiscal year 2019 budget, we ask you to include $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). The GLRI enjoys bipartisan and bicameral support in Congress, and was recently reauthorized through FY2021 at $300 million annually (P.L. 114-322). The Great Lakes are a national treasure and internationally important, providing drinking water for 40 million people and contributing $10 billion in tourism each year. The momentum and partnerships of the GLRI program, which are helping to protect and restore the Great Lakes, must be maintained. As you know, our region is successfully undertaking one of the nation’s largest restoration efforts, an effort the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency says is producing results. In the most recent Great Lakes Restoration Initiative report to Congress and the President, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt wrote that the GLRI “is protecting public health in the Great Lakes more than any other coordinated interagency effort in U.S. history, and helping to ensure that our children and their children live in safer, healthier communities.” Since its inception in 2010, $1.7 billion has been used to fund over 3,400 projects to combat the greatest threats to the Great Lakes, including invasive species, harmful algal blooms and loss of fish and wildlife habitats. We see this every day in the Great Lakes states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin: The GLRI has led to the delisting of three Areas of Concern and more than tripled the cleanup of beneficial use impairments in several others since the GLRI began. Sheboygan, Wisconsin; Buffalo, New York; and Muskegon, Michigan are reimagining their lakefronts and using the cleaned up areas to power their economies through increased property values and development. · The Natural Resources Conservation Service leverages GLRI funding with other Farm Bill programs to implement conservation actions on more than one million acres of farm lands resulting in reduced soil erosion and less farm runoff, both of which contribute to the algal blooms in Lake Erie, Saginaw Bay, and Green Bay. The Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration have removed more than 513 dams and barriers, allowing the fish that support a $7 billion fishery to access more than 3,800 miles of river. Hunting, angling, paddling, and hiking are big business and benefit from increased access to special places outdoors. The Army Corps and FWS are combining their own base funds with GLRI money to enhance federal leadership on Asian carp prevention efforts by operating the electric barriers and planning the next phase of prevention efforts, which benefits not only the Great Lakes but states along the Mississippi River as well. However, there is still much work that needs to be done. Aging sewers, invasive species, harmful algal blooms, and toxic pollutants are just a few of the pervasive threats that impact the region. Cutting funding will slow restoration efforts, allowing problems to get worse and making them more expensive to solve. Ultimately, cutting spending on the Great Lakes won’t save money, it will cost the nation more. As the source of drinking water for 40 million people, the nation cannot afford to stop protecting and restoring the Great Lakes. Now is not the time to scale back our nation’s commitment to restore the Great Lakes environment and economy. Because of the partnership we have with federal agencies our region is making progress and seeing results. The GLRI is a locally driven restoration effort and its success depends on the collaboration between all levels of government and with industrial, commercial, and non-governmental partners. We again ask that you include $300 million for the GLRI in next year’s budget request.
10.19.2017	Stabenow Statement on Vote against Senate Budget Resolution Thursday, October 19, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on her vote against the 2018 Senate Budget Resolution: “We need to be working together in a bipartisan way on tax reform that helps middle class families and small businesses and creates jobs in Michigan. I strongly oppose this push to jam through tax breaks for the wealthy while also making massive cuts to Medicare and Medicaid. We need a budget that reflects Michigan’s priorities and this budget falls short.” Senator Stabenow authored amendments to the budget that would have stopped the massive cuts to Medicare and Medicaid and prevented any company that ships jobs overseas from receiving a tax break. None of these amendments were included in the final budget resolution.
10.18.2017	Stabenow Statement Following Meeting at White House on Republican Tax Proposal Wednesday, October 18, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement after meeting with President Trump and other members of the Senate Finance Committee to discuss the Republican tax proposal: “I support tax reform that simplifies our tax code, puts more money back into the pockets of hardworking families and small business owners, and spurs job creation in Michigan. During today’s meeting, I expressed concerns that the Republican tax proposal would give 80% of the benefits to the top 1% percent, take away important tax incentives for Michigan manufacturers and small businesses, and add to our nation’s deficit. I told President Trump that instead of spending over $1.5 trillion on tax cuts for the wealthy, we should work together to stop tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas and give middle-class families a bigger tax cut.”
10.17.2017	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Protect Michigan Land and Water in the 2018 Farm Bill Tuesday, October 17, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry joined her Agriculture Committee colleague U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) to strengthen the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP) – an innovative approach to conservation authored by Senator Stabenow in the 2014 Farm Bill. The bipartisan Regional Conservation Partnership Program Improvement Act will provide more resources for partners to expand the reach of conservation projects, while cutting red-tape and increasing flexibility to attract new participants. In Michigan, current investments have already leveraged over $100 million from public and private sources for eight projects across the state. “This initiative is one of the largest commitments ever made to protecting our land and water and is one of the biggest Farm Bill success stories in Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “Businesses, non-profits and conservation leaders are working alongside farmers at the local level to improve water quality in our Great Lakes and create new habitats for hunting and fishing. This new bill incorporates ideas we’ve heard from current participants to pave the way for even more innovative conservation work.” “Our farmers and producers have an innate understanding of how to best care for the land they rely on to feed and fuel our world,” said Senator Ernst. “As we have seen in Iowa, the RCPP is a successful and cost-effective approach to encourage voluntary and proactive conservation. Such success makes it critically important to further develop the RCPP in order to continue incentivizing rural and urban partnerships, and allow greater flexibility in their efforts to improve water quality and soil health.” The 2014 Farm Bill created a first-of-its-kind approach to conservation through partnerships between agriculture and conservation groups to improve water quality, restore habitats for hunting and fishing, and protect the Great Lakes. These locally-led partnerships leverage private and public dollars to bring together partners to address regional conservation issues. Since its inception, regional conservation initiatives have leveraged more than $1.2 billion in private funding and brought together over 2,000 diverse partners to address local conservation goals. In Michigan alone, eight projects have received over $55 million in federal funding, which is matched by over $55 million in partner contributions: Tri-State Western Lake Erie Basin Phosphorus Reduction Initiative: $17.5 million Saginaw Bay Watershed Conservation Partnership: $10 million The Tribal Stream and Michigan Fruitbelt Collaborative: $8 million Lower Grand River Watershed Habitat Restoration: $8 million St. Joseph Watershed Conservation Partnership: $6.8 million Improving Forest Health for Wildlife Resources in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin: $5 million Training Foresters to Enhance the Sustainable Management of Private Forest Land: $1 million The Huron River Initiative: $1.8 million The bipartisan Regional Conservation Partnership Program Improvement Act includes suggestions from current partners to make the program work better for producers. The bill eliminates burdensome program requirements and streamlines contracts, cutting red tape and providing more flexibility for farmers implementing conservation practices. Additionally, the bill targets resources to expand conservation work and strengthens the focus on targeted outcomes such as improved water quality, drought resilience, and wildlife habitat. In an effort to bring more participants into the program, the bill also creates incentives for more diverse partnerships and facilitates innovative approaches to conservation through a new pilot grant program. For more information, find the bill summary fact sheet here and the bill text here. The bipartisan bill is supported by the Michigan Farm Bureau, the Michigan Nature Conservancy, and the Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy, the Southwest Michigan Planning Commission, in addition to more than 70 other stakeholders. Carl Bednarski, President, Michigan Farm Bureau: “On behalf of Michigan Farm Bureau’s 44,000 farming families, we thank Senator Stabenow for her continued support for voluntary conservation programs, including her leadership for the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP). RCPP has been an important conservation tool for Michigan that’s allowed us to focus additional resources in areas such as the Western Lake Erie Basin. Michigan Farm Bureau supports the Regional Conservation Partnership Program and feel it benefits agriculture and resource protection. We appreciate Ranking Member Stabenow’s dedication to RCPP. We look forward to working with her on making this program work for farmers and the environment.” Helen Taylor, Michigan State Director, The Nature Conservancy: “We want to thank Senator Stabenow for introducing this important conservation legislation and her ongoing leadership in agricultural conservation efforts. A healthy, clean environment and productive, prosperous agriculture are both critical to Michigan’s future, and tools like the Regional Conservation Partnership Program are critical in helping us achieve both.” Glen Chown, Executive Director, Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy: "The Regional Conservation Partnership Program that Senator Stabenow created in the last Farm Bill has increased our ability to protect critical farmland and improve water quality. We welcome her efforts in the 2018 Farm Bill to strengthen and streamline the delivery program systems." Marcy Hamilton, Senior Planner, Southwest Michigan Planning Commission: “Since 1994, the Friends of the St. Joe River has brought together stakeholders to protect and improve the St. Joseph River Watershed. Because farmland accounts for over 70% of the land that drains to the St. Joseph River, working with agricultural producers is key. In 2014, RCPP provided a unique opportunity for these diverse partners to collectively leverage their resources with federal funding to reduce sediment and nutrients to waterways, establish better irrigation management and improve wildlife habitat. We look forward to working with Senator Stabenow to strengthen this important conservation partnership in the 2018 Farm Bill.”
10.16.2017	Senator Stabenow Applauds New $1.4 Million Investment in MSU Agricultural Research Support Will Help Michigan Farmers Raise Healthy Animals Monday, October 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) announcement of $1.4 million for three Michigan State University (MSU) agricultural research projects. This new investment, which comes from USDA’s Agriculture and Food Research Initiative (AFRI), will help MSU researchers protect animal health on Michigan pork and dairy farms. “Michigan State is a national leader in agricultural research, which safeguards our farms and strengthens our state’s economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “This latest investment will help MSU’s world-class researchers develop new tools and techniques to support our Michigan pork and dairy farmers.” Senator Stabenow authored the 2014 Farm Bill, which continued funding for a long legacy of critical USDA research initiatives, including AFRI. MSU is receiving $1,444,000 in total AFRI funds for three projects that respectively aim to improve immune development in pigs, curb an infectious virus in dairy cows, and address antimicrobial resistance in the dairy industry. This support is part of $14.3 million announced this week for 39 projects across the country. For more information, visit USDA’s website here. ###
10.16.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces Support to Expand Ypsilanti Farmers Markets, Open Year-Round Marketplace Monday, October 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, announced $231,000 to expand Ypsilanti’s popular farmers markets and complete a new indoor-outdoor market that will be open year-round. The grant comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farmers Market Promotion Program (FMPP), which helps increase access to farmers markets in communities and develops new opportunities for farmers to sell their goods locally. "We all know buying local is a win for our economy in Ypsilanti,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we grow our farmers markets, we can connect more families with fresh Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. And when our farmers can sell directly to their neighbors, it means more dollars in their pocket.” Stabenow authored the 2014 Farm Bill, which greatly expanded FMPP and created historic investments to increase access to locally grown food. These investments have helped to improve and grow farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture, agri-tourism, and other direct farm-to-consumer marketing opportunities. The grant funds were awarded to Growing Hope, the Ypsilanti nonprofit that manages the city’s farmers markets. Upon the completion of the Ypsilanti Farmers MarketPlace indoor-outdoor facility, the project will expand the market from seasonal to year-round. The project will also use the funds to attract new customers and provide training to vendors to help them increase their sales across all Ypsilanti Farmers Markets. "With the FMPP funds, the Ypsilanti Farmers Markets run by Growing Hope will be able to engage new customers through promoting diverse food cultures that make up our community,” said Erica Bloom, Program Director for Growing Hope. “Our Markets will be a place to celebrate Michigan farmers and their wide variety of agricultural products produced in our region." For more information about the Ypsilanti project, please visit USDA’s website here.
10.11.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Detroit and Pontiac Wednesday, October 11, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Detroit and Pontiac as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at La Feria, Textures By Nefertiti, and Source Booksellers in Detroit before traveling to Pontiac to visit Slows Bar BQ, Unity Barber Shop & Beauty Salon, Buckner’s A Dessert Café, and Fillmore 13 Brewery. During her visit to Pontiac, Stabenow was joined by Mayor Deirdre Waterman, City Council President Patrice Waterman, Councilmembers Randy Carter and Kermit Williams, and Pontiac School Board President Brenda Carter. The Senator also visited Flagstar Strand Theatre for the Performing Arts while in Pontiac. Stabenow’s tour has included over 125 stops in communities across the state including Indian Village, West Village, Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba and Newberry. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Detroit and Pontiac who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses that are getting started or planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. “We were delighted and excited for the opportunity to have Senator Stabenow visit Source Booksellers,” said Janet Webster Jones, Owner of Source Booksellers. “Having public officials and business owners meet along with customers and staff certainly made the day. Last weekend we took part in the Michigan Retailers Association ‘I Buy Nearby Weekend’ and its work to address issues plaguing Main streets across the country. Senator Stabenow seemed to be so pleased to be in the neighborhood interacting with local businesses. She remarked that small businesses and local bookstores are the backbone of communities.” "We really appreciate Senator Stabenow taking the time to meet and lunch with us at La Feria Spanish Tapas, learning our story and talking about challenges and future opportunities,” said Elias Khalil, Co-Owner of La Feria Spanish Tapas. “An effective public servant is one who leaves her office and has quality interactions with her constituents; Senator Stabenow is certainly an exemplary servant to appreciate and emulate." “We are excited to have Senator Stabenow tour the Flagstar Strand Theatre last week,” said Kyle J. Westberg, President of the Flagstar Strand Theatre for the Performing Arts. “She showed great appreciation to the historical elegance of the Theatre as we discussed its rich history in Pontiac. She was excited to hear about the upcoming shows and was hoping to fit one into her schedule, so hopefully she will return soon to experience some great entertainment.” ###
10.11.2017	Following Equifax Hack, Stabenow Announces New Legislation to Protect Michigan Families from Credit Breaches Wednesday, October 11, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced new legislation to help protect Michigan families from credit breaches such as the Equifax hack, which compromised the personal data of 143 million Americans and 4.4 million people in Michigan. Stabenow’s legislation, the Freedom from Equifax Exploitation (FREE) Act, holds credit reporting agencies accountable and provides Michigan families with more control over their credit information and more options to protect themselves when their data is compromised. “People have every right to be outraged over Equifax’s failures,” said Senator Stabenow. “Companies that hold our most sensitive information need to be held accountable and should be subject to additional oversight. These companies are a long way away from regaining the confidence of consumers, but my legislation is an important step in that direction.” Credit reporting agencies like Equifax hold vast amounts of data on millions of Americans yet lack adequate safeguards against hackers. This bill enhances fraud alert protections, and forces Equifax and other credit reporting agencies to refund any fees they charged for credit freezes after the breach. The bill also stops companies like Equifax from charging consumers for freezing and unfreezing access to their credit files. And, it would allow consumers to receive an additional free credit report. The National Consumer Law Center Consumer Action, Americans for Financial Reform, CREDO, National Association of Consumer Advocates, the Center for Responsible Lending, Public Citizen, and the Consumer Federation of America support this bill. More information on the FREE Act, including bill text and a fact sheet, may be found here.
10.05.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces Over $1.8 Million to Support Michigan Fruit and Vegetable Growers Thursday, October 05, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced over $1.8 million to support Michigan specialty crop growers who produce fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery plants, and flowers. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award $1,805,339 million to support 19 projects throughout the state. “Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables are not only a source of great pride – they are also critical to our state’s diverse agricultural economy” said Senator Stabenow. “This new support will help Michigan farmers get their products off the farm and onto our plates.” Each of the 19 projects are targeted to help specialty crop growers sell more products locally and globally, protect crops from pests and diseases, and market products to be competitive. Grant recipients include the Cherry Marketing Institute, Michigan Apple Committee, Grow Eastern Market, Michigan Carrot Committee, Michigan Vegetable Council, and Michigan Wine Collaborative, among others. For a complete list of Michigan projects receiving support, please visit USDA's website here. In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill to provide support for so-called "specialty crops" which includes fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products and floriculture. These crops are critical to the state's diverse agricultural economy, as Michigan leads the nation in producing a wider variety of crops than any state other than California. “Support for specialty crop producers has been a top priority of mine in the Farm Bill,” Senator Stabenow said. “I will continue to make sure that Michigan families have better access to healthy, locally grown food, and support our farmers with the tools they need to succeed.” Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on traditional commodity crops and had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. The 2014 Farm Bill strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food systems.
10.04.2017	Stabenow Opening Statement on Republican Budget at Committee Markup Wednesday, October 04, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) delivered opening remarks at a Senate Budget Committee markup of the 2018 Republican budget resolution. The 2018 budget resolution sets the groundwork for Republicans to move forward on their tax reform proposal. Senator Stabenow’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, may be found below: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman: “We need tax reform that helps small businesses, closes tax loopholes to create jobs here at home, and puts more money in the pockets of middle-class families in Michigan and across the country. “And we need an American budget that shows what we value as a country. “Do we value our children, seniors, and people with disabilities? “Do we value small-business owners in Pontiac, family farms in South Haven, and Michigan companies that are creating good-paying jobs? “Do we value our future? Are we helping young people get an education and middle-class families get ahead? “And are we doing all of this in a responsible way, or adding to the burden of debt our children and grandchildren will have to carry? “Budgets aren’t sterile numbers on a spreadsheet. Budgets are about people. And this budget and the Republican tax plan suggest the American people are not valued. “47 million Americans depend on Medicare for their health care. This budget would cut Medicare by $473 billion dollars. “And low-income children and their parents, seniors in nursing homes and people with disabilities depend on Medicaid. Medicaid would be cut by a trillion dollars in this budget. “We just went through months of debate and votes to cut health care. Americans overwhelmingly said NO. And the majority of Senators said NO. “But here we are again… “I’m also concerned about cuts to agriculture when prices have dropped by 50% and our farmers and ranchers are already doing more with less. “Agriculture did its part to balance the budget in the 2014 Farm Bill when we saved $100 billion. Over 500 food and farm groups agree: no more cuts to agriculture and food programs. “However, this budget would target our farmers and ranchers for an additional $21 billion in cuts. “And that doesn’t even include cuts to nutrition assistance, which puts food on the table for millions of families. “Meanwhile, some middle-class families would actually see their taxes go up! “Under the Republican plan, a senior citizen in Saginaw who’s making $20,000 a year would pay more in taxes. “A married couple with two kids and an income of $70,000 in Gaylord would pay more in taxes. “And a single mom with three kids in Battle Creek who works really hard and earns $50,000 – which never seems to stretch far enough – would pay $1,000 more in taxes. “And for what? To cut taxes for the wealthiest 1% among us. “In fact, 80% of tax cuts would go to the top 1%, and they would receive a tax cut worth $200,000 on average. “There’s no question we need tax reform. “We need tax reform that helps small businesses, closes tax loopholes that create jobs here at home, and puts more money in the pockets of middle-class families in Michigan and across the country. “If the Majority puts forward that proposal, count me in. “But asking seniors, people with disabilities, and children and families to lose their health care and pay more taxes in order to fund a huge tax cut for the wealthiest Americans while creating mountains of new debt? “That’s a bad deal for Michigan. And you can count me out. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman.”
10.04.2017	Following Finance Committee Vote, Stabenow Calls on Congress to Immediately Extend Funding for Children’s Health Insurance Wednesday, October 04, 2017 Following a vote this morning in the Senate Finance Committee, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) called on Congress to extend funding immediately for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Funding for CHIP, which serves close to nine million children across the country and about 100,000 children in Michigan through MIChild, expired on September 30th. “It is unacceptable that Congress failed to meet the deadline to extend critical funding for children’s health insurance,” said Senator Stabenow. “Because of this inaction, we could see cancellation notices going out to families, wait lists or enrollment changes, and – ultimately – kids could be unable to see their doctor. There is no reason why the full Senate cannot take up my bipartisan bill to fund CHIP and pass it immediately.” Last month, Senator Stabenow introduced the Keeping Kids’ Insurance Dependable and Secure (KIDS) Act, bipartisan legislation to ensure stability for vulnerable children by extending funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program for five years. Senator Stabenow has also led a bipartisan push for Congress to extend funding for community health centers, which expired over the weekend. Community health centers are a critical component of the nation’s primary care network, serving approximately 26 million patients at over 10,000 sites throughout the United States.
10.03.2017	Stabenow, Blunt, Lance, Matsui Announce Bill to Expand Funding for Community-Based Mental Health and Addiction Services New Legislation is Next Step to Funding Quality Mental Health Care Nationwide Tuesday, October 03, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Representatives Leonard Lance (NJ-07) and Doris Matsui (CA-06) today announced a bill to significantly expand the program they championed to improve community mental health and addiction services across the country. The bill will ensure that all eight states awarded funding through an initiative based on their Excellence in Mental Health Act can be funded for another year and will expand the program to 11 more states that already applied to participate in the program. Last year, eight states received full funding for comprehensive community behavioral health and addiction services provided by mental health centers, Federally-Qualified Health Centers, VA clinics, and other mental health organizations. These programs must meet the new quality standards for Certified Community Behavioral Health Centers that were outlined in the Excellence in Mental Health Act. The new Stabenow-Blunt-Lance-Matsui legislation will fund services for these eight states for another year and expand the available funding to another 11 states, which is an important next step toward fully funding quality mental and behavioral health services nationwide. “This expansion is critical in making sure communities across the country have the resources they need to improve the lives of anyone living with mental illness or recovering from addiction,” said Senator Stabenow. “Each and every state that came forward with a plan to increase access to community mental health services should have the support they need.” “I’m proud that Missouri, as a participant in the Excellence in Mental Health Act pilot program, is leading the nation in developing strategies to improve and expand access to mental and behavioral treatment,” said Senator Blunt. “This bill will allow all states in the pilot program to continue the important work that’s underway, and enable more states to join the effort. I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan bill, and help get us closer to our goal of treating mental health like all other health in this country.” “The Excellence in Mental Health Act is working by improving coordination and services offered to those most in need,” said Congressman Lance. “New Jersey is one of the original states selected for increased funding for comprehensive mental health services and this bill makes sure we maintain the improved programming. States that come forward with a plan to improve mental health care need to have a strong federal partner thanks to this bicameral, bipartisan legislation.” “For too long, there has been a lack of parity between physical and mental health care in this country,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “The passage of the Excellence in Mental Health Act was instrumental in our work to put mental health on a level playing field, and this legislation continues that needed progress. It would help ensure that more community behavioral health centers are equipped with the tools to bolster mental health and substance abuse services in neighborhoods across the country. I look forward to continuing to work with my House and Senate colleagues to move this bill forward, so that more people have access to quality mental health care where they live.” "With rising rates of overdoses and suicides, the Excellence in Mental Health and Addiction Treatment Expansion Act offers lifesaving mental health and addictions services that people can count on," said Linda Rosenberg, President and CEO of the National Council for Behavioral Health. "We thank Senators Debbie Stabenow and Roy Blunt and Representatives Leonard Lance and Doris Matsui for once again demonstrating their leadership and ongoing commitment to science-based community treatment." Senators Stabenow and Blunt first introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act in February 2013 to put community mental health centers on an equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and fully funding community services and offering patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling and integrated services for mental illness. The bill was signed into law by President Obama in 2014 and is one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades. The law is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Health, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others.
09.29.2017	Stabenow, Blunt Introduce Bill to Reauthorize Critical Funding for Community Health Centers Friday, September 29, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (Mich.) and Roy Blunt (Mo.) yesterday introduced the Community Health Investment, Modernization, and Excellence (CHIME) Act, which would reauthorize the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF) and the National Health Service Corps (NHSC) for five years. In addition, the bipartisan bill provides four percent increases for the CHCF and NHSC every year beginning in FY2019. “Michigan families rely on the health care they receive at over 260 community health center sites in our state, including low-cost dental coverage, mental health care, vision services, and more,” said Stabenow. “Critical funding for these community health centers expires this weekend. I want to thank Senator Roy Blunt for leading this bipartisan effort with me and urge Congress to act on this important extension.” Community health centers are a critical component of the nation’s primary care network, serving approximately 26 million patients at over 10,000 sites throughout the United States. Community health centers operate in both rural and urban areas, in every state in the nation. Last year, health centers were the medical home for one in twelve Americans, one in ten children, one in six Americans living in rural areas, and more than 330,000 of our nation’s veterans. “More than half a million Missourians, 27 percent of whom are uninsured, rely on community health centers to provide critical, affordable health care services,” said Blunt. “The care provided at these facilities doesn’t just save lives, it saves money by cutting down on the unnecessary use of emergency rooms and hospitalizations. This bill will ensure that community health centers remain open, and extend funding for the National Health Service Corps, which brings medical, dental, and behavioral health professionals to underserved areas. I’m encouraged by the strong, bipartisan support for this bill, and I’ll continue working to ensure community health centers have the resources they need.” Without extension of the CHCF, community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and result in 9 million Americans losing their access to care. Earlier this month, Stabenow and Blunt led a bipartisan group of senators in calling for immediate action to extend critical funding for community health centers before funding runs out at the end of this week. The CHIME Act is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Shelley Moore Capito (W.Va.), Ben Cardin (Md.), Tom Carper (Del.), Susan Collins (Maine), Cory Gardner (Colo.), Joe Manchin (W.Va.), Claire McCaskill (Mo.), and Roger Wicker (Miss.).
09.28.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce Small Business Access to Capital Act Thursday, September 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act, which will reauthorize and improve the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) to help small businesses grow and create jobs. The legislation builds on the successful SSBCI initiative that both lawmakers championed in the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010. SSBCI funds the Michigan Economic Development Corporation and other state-led lending programs that leverage private financing to help small businesses access the capital they need. "Small businesses create the majority of new jobs, and when owners can access capital, they can expand and keep the economy growing," Senator Stabenow said. "Access to capital is an important issue that owners have raised with me as I have travelled the state this past year on my Small Business Tour. I'm pleased to be joining with Senator Peters to build on this successful program that has helped hundreds of small businesses and manufacturers get off the ground or expand." "Michigan is home to more than 856,000 small businesses that rely on access to critical resources that help them compete, grow and create new jobs in our communities,” said Senator Peters. “I'm glad to partner with Senator Stabenow to introduce legislation that will expand this successful effort and provide additional resources to boost Michigan small businesses that are the backbone of our economy." Michigan has exhausted all SSBCI federal funding, expending over $100 million to date that has leveraged a total investment of nearly $600 million, including private capital. This investment has helped businesses create or retain over 12,000 jobs across the state. The Michigan Economic Development Corporation will be able to continue its SSBCI lending programs using recycled federal funds from paid back loans and state funding. The Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2017 builds on the initial program's success by providing an additional $500 million in formula funds to all states based on the 2010 law. Michigan would receive over $26 million in new formula funding-more than every state except Florida and California. The bill will also create a new, competitive $1 billion pool of funding for states that have already capitalized on funding from the 2010 program.
09.28.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $4.3 Million for Bishop International Airport Thursday, September 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the Bishop International Airport will receive a $4,302,000 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to rehabilitate the pavement of Taxiway C, construct asphalt shoulders and install runway guard lights at each access point to the runway. “Bishop International Airport provides critical transportation services for residents and businesses around the Flint community,” said Senator Peters. “Thanks to this funding, the airport will be able to improve their infrastructure so they can continue to effectively and safely serve the people of Flint.” “This investment will make travelling to and from Flint safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “This grant allows us to keep the airport pavement in top condition, enhancing safety for pilots and passengers using the airport,” said Craig Williams, Airport Director. “We’re proud that this grant money will help boost the local economy by supporting Michigan companies that will work on this project.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
09.28.2017	Senator Stabenow Introduces Former Rep. Hoekstra at Senate Foreign Relations Committee Confirmation Hearing Former Rep. Hoekstra has been nominated to be the next U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands Thursday, September 28, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) yesterday introduced former Representative Pete Hoekstra at his confirmation hearing to be the next U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands. President Trump nominated Hoekstra, who was born in the Netherlands, to be the next U.S. Ambassador on July 24, 2017. Following consideration by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Hoekstra’s nomination will be voted on by the full Senate. “As former Michigan Senator Arthur Vandenberg famously said: ‘Politics stop at the water’s edge,’” said Senator Stabenow. “And it also stops at the shores of our Great Lakes. I was pleased to introduce my former Michigan colleague, Congressman Pete Hoekstra, at his confirmation hearing. While Pete and I don’t always agree, it is good for our State and good for our country to have him serving in this prominent international role. I look forward to supporting his nomination.” Video footage of Senator Stabenow’s introduction and former Congressman Hoekstra’s opening remarks may be found here.
09.27.2017	Stabenow Statement on Republican Tax Proposal Wednesday, September 27, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, released a statement on the Republican tax proposal: “Our tax code shouldn’t be so complicated that you need to buy a computer program or hire an accountant to file your taxes. I support reform that simplifies our tax code, puts more money back into the pockets of hardworking families, helps small businesses, and spurs job creation in Michigan. I am concerned that today’s proposal would give most of the benefits to those at the top and would take away important tax incentives for Michigan manufacturers. As we work on reform in the coming months, the bottom line for me is that any reform must be bipartisan, help Michigan families and create Michigan jobs.” Stabenow is the author of the Bring Jobs Home Act of 2017 that ends a loophole that gives a tax break to companies that send jobs overseas. Senator Stabenow first introduced this legislation in 2012, and in every Congress since, but Senate Republicans have repeatedly blocked it. Stabenow also introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act earlier this year, which would provide a tax cut to a small business getting started or planning to grow and expand. The bill provides a 25 percent tax credit for the cost of buildings and equipment for a business’s first commercial production facility.
09.26.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Almost $3 Million in Support for Two Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Tuesday, September 26, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that two fire departments in Southeast Michigan will receive $2,986,965 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program to hire 15 new full-time firefighters. The Lincoln Park Fire Department will receive $1,304,205 to hire six new firefighters. The City of Inkster Fire Department will receive $1,682,760 to hire nine new firefighters. "Our firefighters in Southeast Michigan put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Firefighters and first responders are on the frontlines protecting our communities when emergencies strike,” Senator Peters said. “This funding will help ensure fire departments in Southeast Michigan have the trained staff they need to respond to emergencies.” “I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to Senators Stabenow and Peters and their offices for their support for fire departments and grant programs like the SAFER,” said Steve Martin, Fire Chief of the Lincoln Park Fire Department. “This grant will allow us to hire six additional firefighters, helping us to operate at a safer level and continue our mission to serve the citizens of Lincoln Park, assist our surrounding communities and protect our residents. We appreciate the support of Senator Stabenow, Senator Peters and other State and Local Officials, who help make it possible for the Lincoln Park Fire Department to protect the life and property of the citizens we serve.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to guarantee departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants. ###
09.25.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Detroit’s Indian Village and West Village Monday, September 25, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Detroit’s Indian Village and West Village as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Sister Pie, Parker Street Gallery, Goodness Gracious Alive, Caribbean Mardi Gras Productions, and Detroit Body Garage. Stabenow’s tour has included over 120 stops in communities across the state including Munising, Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba and Newberry. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Detroit’s Indian Village and West Village who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses that are getting started or planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. "We were thrilled that Senator Stabenow stopped by last week,” said Lisa Ludwinkski, Owner of Sister Pie. “She asked me what I needed as a small business owner and we had a good chat. Then she tried two kinds of pie and spent time talking with every customer and staff member in the shop." ###
09.22.2017	Stabenow, Peters Join Health Care Leaders and Patients in Opposition to Last-Ditch Republican Effort to Take Away Health Care from Michigan Families Friday, September 22, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today joined health care leaders and patients in opposition to the last-ditch Republican effort to take away health care from Michigan families. The bill, known as the Graham-Cassidy-Heller proposal, hurts millions of children, older Americans, and people with disabilities and removes protections for patients with pre-existing conditions like cancer, diabetes, and heart disease. Republicans are attempting to jam this proposal through Congress before a September 30th deadline. By the time this Republican proposal is fully in effect, the State of Michigan would lose $140 billion. That cut is nearly three times the size of Michigan’s total Fiscal Year 2018 budget. “The latest Republican proposal is the most harmful and irresponsible yet for Michigan families,” said Senator Stabenow. “I am focused on lowering the cost of health care and prescription drugs and making sure critical funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program and community health centers is extended before they expire on September 30th. Instead of rushing to pass a bill that dramatically raises costs and takes away health care from tens of millions of Americans, Congress should be taking action so that children and families have the affordable health care they need.” “If this bill passes, Michiganders will be forced to pay more money for less care. Costs for older Americans will skyrocket and insurance companies will once again be free to discriminate against individuals with preexisting conditions,” said Senator Peters. “I urge my Republican colleagues to listen to the experts and families here in Michigan and start working in a bipartisan manner to lower costs and improve care.” The Senators were joined by leaders from the Michigan Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Michigan Health & Hospital Association, and the Michigan Primary Care Association, in addition to people in Michigan who would be hurt by the latest Republican proposal. “We cannot roll back the most important parts of the ACA, which has provided health care coverage to more than 930,000 Michiganders,” said Wright Lassiter III, President & CEO of Henry Ford Health System. “We urge continuing efforts to improve upon the ACA without the detrimental impact of the Graham-Cassidy proposal.” “The bill from Senators Graham and Cassidy fails children,” said Dr. Sharon Swindell, President-Elect of the Michigan Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics. “Children make up the largest group of people who rely on Medicaid. By turning Medicaid into a block grant, capping its funding and ending its expansion, this proposal would have devastating effects on the 1.2 million Michigan children who rely on Medicaid—dismantling the way that Medicaid has functioned for the last 52 years. We have reached historic levels of health coverage in Michigan children at 97% and cannot and should not go backwards.” “Graham-Cassidy isn't a fix to what ails our nation: it's a broken promise to the American people,” said Loretta V. Bush, CEO of Michigan Primary Care Association. “If passed, millions of Michiganders, especially those currently covered by Medicaid and the Healthy Michigan Plan, will lose access to the care and coverage they rely on to work, play, and live their lives. If the health center movement has taught us anything, it’s that bipartisan solutions to our national health care challenge are possible. It's time for Congress to focus on what works." “The MHA believes that every resident in Michigan deserves affordable, high-quality healthcare coverage and access to care in the right place at the right time,” said Brian Peters, CEO of Michigan Health & Hospital Association. “Our member hospitals and health systems cannot support the Graham-Cassidy-Heller legislation that eviscerates healthcare coverage and access to care on such a large scale. We applaud the efforts of Michigan Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters to protect coverage and access for the people of our state.” “I have had to be an advocate for my daughter’s right to have support for her disabilities throughout her entire 37 years of life,” said Chris Lerchen, Executive Director of the Arc of Northwest Wayne County and parent of an adult daughter with disabilities supported by Medicaid. “For her to have a quality education, transition from school to adult life with a job and home in the community. Medicaid supports her right as a U.S. citizen to live and work in the community and reach her full potential in life. I will not support changes to healthcare that take those rights away.” “Our daughter Louisa is just like any other little girl – she loves swinging on the swing set, playing with her brother, reading stories, and listening to music,” said Andrea and Tom Pietrowsky. “Except Louisa was born with only half of her heart and has been dependent on a ventilator for the first 2.5 years of her life. One day, she will likely need a heart transplant. We’re so grateful for the support we’ve received because of the current health care law. During multiple heart surgeries and hospital visits, we haven’t had to be afraid that an insurance company could tell us she is not insurable or has met her lifetime limit on care. This newest Republican health care bill could put us into bankruptcy or cost our daughter her life if necessary procedures were delayed while negotiating costs and coverage. We cannot afford for it to pass.”
09.21.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $1.6 Million for Houghton County Memorial Airport Thursday, September 21, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that Houghton County Memorial Airport will receive a $1,629,463 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) which will be used to rehabilitate the runway and apron, as well as purchase snow removal equipment. “The Houghton County Memorial Airport helps bolster the local economy by connecting Keweenaw Peninsula residents and businesses with the world,” said Senator Peters. “This additional support will help the airport make important equipment and infrastructure updates that are critical to keeping air travel safe and efficient.” “This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Residents of Copper Country rely on Houghton County Memorial Airport for dependable air travel,” said Dennis Hext, Houghton County Memorial Airport Manager. “This funding will allow us to improve safety, help support jobs in the region and ensure the airport's long term success.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
09.20.2017	Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Children’s Health Insurance Bill Legislation would extend and improve critical children’s health care program before upcoming deadline Wednesday, September 20, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that she has introduced the Keeping Kids’ Insurance Dependable and Secure (KIDS) Act (S. 1827), bipartisan legislation to ensure stability for vulnerable children by extending funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for five years. Current funding for CHIP will expire on September 30th unless Congress takes action. “Before the Children’s Health Insurance Program, too many hardworking families in Michigan couldn’t afford to take their kids to the doctor when they got sick,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today, 97 percent of children in Michigan can see a doctor. We need to build on that progress, not go backwards. Rather than a last-ditch effort to take away health care from Michigan families, we should work across the aisle and pass my bill to make sure children have the health coverage they need.” CHIP, which was signed into law in 1997, serves close to nine million children across the country and about 100,000 children in Michigan who are enrolled in MIChild. Children enrolled in CHIP are more likely to have a reliable source of health and dental care and to have regular check-ups. If CHIP funding expires, families could experience wait lists or enrollment changes and, ultimately, kids could be unable to see a doctor. U.S. Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, are the original sponsors of the KIDS Act.
09.19.2017	Stabenow, Blunt Lead Bipartisan Effort to Extend Critical Funding for Community Health Centers before End of Month Deadline Tuesday, September 19, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) today led a bipartisan group of Senators to call for immediate action to extend critical funding for community health centers before funding runs out at the end of this month. In a letter to the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Chairman and Ranking Member, Stabenow, Blunt, and 68 other Senators expressed their strong support for community health centers, which provide access to cost-effective primary and preventive care for families across the country. “Without extension of the CHCF, community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding,” wrote the Senators. “This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and result in 9 million Americans losing their access to care…We are already hearing of the disruptive effects of the uncertainty created by the impending funding cliff on health center operations—this disruption will increase significantly without an extension of funding by September 30.” Community health centers operate in both rural and urban areas, in every state in the nation, and are an important health care provider. Last year, health centers were the medical home for one in twelve Americans, one in ten children, one in six Americans living in rural areas, and more than 330,000 of our nation’s veterans. Seventy U.S. Senators signed on to the Stabenow-Blunt letter, including Robert Menendez (D-NJ), John Boozman (R-AR), Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Tom Carper (D-DE), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Dean Heller (R-NV), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Rob Portman (R-OH), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Bill Nelson (D-FL), John Barrasso (D-WY), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Deb Fisher (R-NE), Jon Tester (D-MT), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), David Perdue (R-GA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Susan Collins (R-ME), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Jim Risch (R-ID), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tom Udall (D-NM), Angus King (I-ME), Gary Peters (D-MI), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Jack Reed (D-RI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Catherine Cortez-Masto (D-NV), Cory Booker (D-NJ), John Hoeven (R-ND), Jeff Merkley (D-WA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Tim Kaine (D-VA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Bob Casey (D-PA), James Lankford (R-OK), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Al Franken (D-MN), Mark Warner (D-VA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK). A PDF of the letter is attached and the full text may be found below. September 19, 2017 Senator Lamar Alexander Chairman Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Senator Patty Murray Ranking Member Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Alexander and Ranking Member Murray, We write today to share our strong support for community health centers and to urge swift resolution to the funding cliff community health centers face at the end of the month. Community health centers serve a critical role in communities throughout the United States and are important safety net providers. If Congress allows the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF) to lapse, it would immediately threaten patient access to the cost-effective primary and preventive care health centers provide. We respectfully request you take immediate action to address CHCF funding. Community health centers have long enjoyed strong bipartisan support. Since their initial creation over fifty years ago, community health centers have been a critical component of the nation’s primary care network, today serving approximately 26 million patients at over 10,000 sites throughout the United States. Community health centers operate in both rural and urban areas, in every state in the nation, and are an important part of the health care ecosystem of their communities. Last year, health centers were the medical home for one in twelve Americans, one in ten children, one in six Americans living in rural areas, and more than 330,000 of our nation’s veterans. Congress’ previous investments in the community health center program have yielded real results and vastly improved the health and well-being of countless communities throughout the United States. Without extension of the CHCF, community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and result in 9 million Americans losing their access to care. Along with the health center impact, the National Health Service Corps and the Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education programs are at risk of expiry. As small businesses, health centers need predictability to secure financing for capital projects, to sign contracts, to recruit and retain providers and staff, and to sustain operations. We are already hearing of the disruptive effects of the uncertainty created by the impending funding cliff on health center operations—this disruption will increase significantly without an extension of funding by September 30. We believe the strong bipartisan support the community health center program receives every year is a strong indicator of the importance of the program to the nation. We stand ready to work with you to ensure that the CHCF continues to be a vibrant program that has improved the health and well-being of many of our nation’s most vulnerable individuals and communities. Thank you for your consideration of our thoughts. We stand ready to work with you to fund the community health center program to ensure no losses in health care access for the millions of Americans served by community health centers.
09.19.2017	Stabenow Statement on Senate Passage of National Defense Authorization Act Tuesday, September 19, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement after voting in favor of the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the Senate tonight: “Today, we are making a strong investment in our men and women in uniform as well as Michigan’s defense industry, which supports over 100,000 jobs and plays an important role in our nation’s security. The defense bill includes one of my amendments to toughen up our Buy American law. It also protects over 1,500 jobs for Michigan workers and suppliers who help build the Littoral Combat Ships at Marinette Marine Shipyard, authorizes additional funding for critical ground vehicle research at TARDEC, and provides a well-earned pay raise for our troops. I strongly support these priorities and will continue leading the effort to protect Michigan’s defense assets and identify new opportunities that will create jobs.” Stabenow’s Buy American amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act would require the Government Accountability Office to review Buy American training practices so that contracting personnel can better comply with current law.
09.18.2017	Stabenow Opposes Republican Proposal to Take Away Tax-Deferred Retirement Plans Monday, September 18, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) joined other top Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee in opposition to a reported Republican tax proposal that could take away the option of tax-deferred retirement plans, such as 401(k)s and traditional IRAs, to pay for corporate tax breaks. This proposal could force all workers into Roth retirement savings plans, reducing workers’ take home pay, and taking away their freedom to choose the retirement plan they want. “At a time when working families are already struggling to get ahead, reducing or taking away tax-deferred retirement savings options could have significant long-term consequences,” the Senators wrote. “Tax reform should increase working families’ take-home pay, encourage savings, grow jobs and the economy, and reward companies that invest in American workers and their communities…So-called ‘rothification’ of retirement savings fails that test on all counts.” Unlike 401ks, traditional IRAs or other retirement savings plans many Americans currently use, Roth savings are taxed up front, reducing workers’ take home pay and making it more expensive for Americans to save for retirement. Roth plans are also more expensive for employers to offer and would make it harder for small businesses to provide retirement plans for their employees. Stabenow joined Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Bob Casey (D-PA) in sending the letter to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, White House Chief Economic Advisor Gary Cohn, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Paul Ryan, Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch and House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady. Full text of the letter is below and here. Dear Secretary Mnuchin, Mr. Cohn, Leader McConnell, Speaker Ryan, Chairman Hatch and Chairman Brady: As you consider options for building a fair and progressive tax code, while maintaining fiscal responsibility, we urge you to reject any proposal that would reduce or eliminate incentives for working families to save for retirement. Millions of Americans rely on 401(k)s, IRAs, and other plans to save for their retirement and their family’s future. Putting those savings vehicles – and the financial security of seniors – at risk is antithetical to the spirit of tax reform. Tax cuts for corporations and the wealthiest Americans should not be paid for by increasing taxes on middle class families saving for retirement. For many hardworking Americans, the tax incentive for retirement savings is a critically-important tool for building long-term financial security. Four out of five households say the incentives and favorable tax treatment of their retirement accounts encourage them to save. At a time when working families are already struggling to get ahead, reducing or taking away tax-deferred retirement savings options could have significant long-term consequences. We are particularly concerned about rumored proposals to eliminate the traditional, tax-deferred treatment of 401(k) and IRA contributions and mandate the use of after-tax, Roth accounts. Roth accounts can be a better tool under certain circumstances for retirement saving. However, this is not always the case for all families. The current practice of allowing families the freedom to choose the type of retirement tool that is most beneficial for them based on their unique circumstances makes sense given this dynamic. Tax reform should preserve this freedom and not end it. Families today are already not saving enough for retirement, and we are concerned that mandating Roth savings will diminish their ability to save even further. Those with limited discretionary income will need to reduce their current level of saving to afford the immediate taxes due on their savings, or they will need to reduce other necessary spending, such as on education, child care and housing costs. To the extent that these affected savers are small business owners, they may decide it is not worth the annual cost and time to establish and maintain a retirement plan at all, which will have the cascading effect of reducing workplace saving options and saving rates for their employees. Importantly, both the tax-cut and the revenue generated by mandating Roth accounts is a mirage and will not deliver an immediate income boost for many in the middle class. Even if you assume that all of the benefits of tax reform will accrue to the middle-class, the “rothification” proposal makes those tax cuts a shell game – reducing current take-home pay with one hand for those that need to maintain their current level of savings while cutting their tax rates with the other. At worst, it is theft, reducing the take home pay for working families to finance tax cuts for the wealthy. We are also concerned that from a fiscal perspective mandating Roth savings is a sham. As you know, retirement plan contributions are tax deferred, not tax exempt. This proposal is a budget gimmick that lets Congress raise revenue by pushing income recognition from outside the ten-year budget window to inside the ten-year budget window. This is not revenue on which tax cuts should be based. Using this revenue to pay for tax cuts will require future taxes to make up for revenue lost outside the budget window, or will require painful budget cuts to critical programs, such as in Medicaid, assistance for higher education, and disaster recovery. Tax reform should increase working families’ take-home pay, encourage savings, grow jobs and the economy, reward companies that invest in American workers and their communities, and maintain sound fiscal policy. So-called “rothification” of retirement savings fails that test on all counts.
09.18.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Oxford Fire Department Monday, September 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that Oxford Fire Department will receive $333,706 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program for staffing. "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help Oxford Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Michigan residents rely on the safety and emergency response that our brave firefighters provide,” said Senator Gary Peters. “I am proud to announce this funding that will ensure the Oxford Fire Department continues to have well-trained firefighters and first responders on-call to protect the community.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to guarantee departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants. ###
09.15.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $3.8 Million for Gerald R. Ford International Airport Friday, September 15, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Gerald R. Ford International Airport will receive $3,830,587 to improve security. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Airport Improvement Program. “This investment will make traveling to and from Grand Rapids safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Travelers to and from West Michigan rely on the Gerald Ford International Airport for safe and reliable transportation," said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased the airport will be able to use these funds to make improvements and continue to provide safe and efficient air service for the region.” "Safety and security are a priority at the Gerald R. Ford International Airport, and we are pleased to have Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters' support in securing this grant," said Gerald R. Ford International Airport President & CEO Jim Gill. "As we all know, technology changes rapidly. This grant will help us stay ahead of the game, allowing for future regulatory needs to be implemented through a seamless process, and bringing in state-of-the-art access control and surveillance systems." The FAA’s Airport Improvement Program provides more than $3 billion in annual funding for projects that are needed to maintain the safety, security, capacity, and efficiency of the nation’s airports. More than 3,300 airports are eligible for AIP grants benefiting commercial passengers, cargo operations, and general aviation activities throughout the nation. More information about the Airport Improvement Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/aip/overview/. ###
09.13.2017	Stabenow Introduces Amendments to National Defense Authorization Act to Strengthen Buy American Requirements Wednesday, September 13, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that she has introduced three amendments to the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act that will ensure the Defense Department is complying with Buy American purchasing requirements. These will ensure that federal taxpayer dollars are being used to benefit Michigan workers and businesses and not foreign companies. The National Defense Authorization Act authorizes annual defense spending and is currently being considered by the U.S. Senate. “It’s common sense that American tax dollars be used to purchase products made in America, not overseas,” said Senator Stabenow. “That’s why I introduced these three amendments to toughen up our Buy American requirements so that American businesses and workers are put first. Michigan’s defense industry supports over 105,000 jobs, and these talented workers and businesses should have priority over foreign companies for federal contracts.” Currently, the Department of Defense uses a loophole so that Buy American requirements do not apply if a federal agency is procuring a product to be used overseas. Over the past five years, the DoD spent more than $35 billion on over 150,000 products – including motorcycles, radios, and even jet engines – that did not meet Buy American rules. One of Stabenow’s amendments would close this loophole and require the Department of Defense to prioritize products made in the United States. This amendment is based on Buy American legislation Stabenow introduced earlier this year. The Make It In America Act would close loopholes in the current Buy American law so that the federal government is spending American tax dollars to buy products made in America. During her small business tour across Michigan, Senator Stabenow heard from businesses that expressed concern that our Buy American policies, meant to give priority to American companies when the federal government purchases goods, weren’t working. The Make It In America Act would make it harder to use waivers to get around Buy America provisions and require agencies to submit an annual report to Congress on the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on foreign made goods. The waiver to exempt goods used outside of the United States accounted for 65 percent of all Buy American waivers in 2016. Stabenow’s other Buy American amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act would require the Government Accountability Office to review Buy American training practices so that contracting personnel can better comply with current law. Her third amendment would require the Department of Defense to form a partnership with the Manufacturing Extension Partnership to identify more small and medium sized manufacturers that can provide products that comply with Buy American standards.
09.12.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Fire Prevention Investment for Wayne County Fire Departments Tuesday, September 12, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that two Wayne County fire departments will receive $140,211 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program. The City of Wayne Fire Department will receive $14,972 to train officers in fire inspection, and the Westland Fire Department will receive $125,239 to purchase and install smoke alarms in senior and low income homes. “Investing in local fire prevention efforts goes a long way toward saving lives during emergencies,” said Senator Peters. “With this funding, the City of Wayne Fire Department and the Westland Fire Department can continue their important work to ensure their communities have the resources they need to stay safe during fire emergencies.” “Our firefighters in Wayne County put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Prevention is key and these resources will help save lives and the treasured possessions of so many families.” “With this grant, the Westland Firefighters will be able to help provide safer homes for the community’s most vulnerable residents,” said Mayor William R. Wild, City of Westland. “On behalf of the City of Westland, I’d like to thank Senator Peters and Senator Stabenow for their help in securing these important life-saving funds.” “Smoke alarms and other fire prevention efforts are critical to saving lives,” said Fire Chief Michael Stradtner, Westland Fire Department. “This grant will enable us to purchase smoke detectors and develop a program to assist our seniors and low income families with new smoke detector installation to ensure they have working smoke detectors in their homes.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for fire prevention and safety equipment. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.12.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $300,000 in Fire Prevention Funding for Grand Rapids Fire Department Tuesday, September 12, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced Grand Rapids Fire Department will receive $347,781 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program to expand local fire prevention programs in residential areas of Grand Rapids and provide smoke and carbon monoxide alarms. “Investing in local fire prevention efforts goes a long way toward saving lives during emergencies,” said Senator Peters. “With this funding, the Grand Rapids Fire Department can continue their important fire safety education program and ensure homes throughout the community have working smoke and carbon monoxide alarms.” “Our firefighters in Grand Rapids put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Prevention is key and these resources will help save lives and the treasured possessions of so many families.” “The Grand Rapids Fire Department has been extremely successful at managing our residential safety program over the past several years, and has seen positive and measurable outcomes,” said John Lehman, Grand Rapids Fire Department Fire Chief. “Adding carbon monoxide alarms to our existing program will increase the safety of our citizens and ultimately have a potentially lifesaving impact on the community that we serve.” Residential fires account for 89 percent of all fire-related injuries and 66 percent of fire-related property loss in Grand Rapids. As of September 6, 2017, the Grand Rapids Fire Department has performed home safety assessments in 7,217 homes and installed 44,556 ten year lithium smoke alarms. Participants in the department’s fire safety program experience 64 percent fewer structure fires than non-participants. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for fire prevention and safety equipment. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.08.2017	ICYMI: Stabenow Holds Six Workforce Discussions across State, Highlights Great Lakes Restoration Success Stories Stabenow also continued her small business visits, marking the 120th stop of her statewide tour Friday, September 08, 2017 Throughout the month of August, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) held a series of workforce discussions focused on how to better fill the demand for skilled workers in Michigan and provide professional career and training opportunities for students who don’t choose a four-year college path after high school or workers who want to be retrained for new jobs. The six discussions with business and labor leaders, as well as parents, students, and educators, were held at the Detroit Electrical Industry Training Center in Warren, Mott Community College’s Regional Technology Center in Flint, the Michigan Laborer’s Training and Apprenticeship Institute in Perry, Kent Career Technical Center in Grand Rapids, Northwestern Michigan College in Traverse City and Northern Michigan University in Marquette. Stabenow also spent August highlighting Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) success stories across Michigan and the importance of federal funding to protect our lakes and waterways. Stabenow authored the GLRI in 2010 and is leading the bipartisan effort to stop proposals to eliminate funding for the Initiative next year. She highlighted the success of projects in Wayne, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Frankenmuth, and Ishpeming. In case you missed it, please see coverage from her workforce discussions, Great Lakes events, and small business visits below. WORKFORCE DISCUSSIONS MLIVE: Stabenow touts careers in the skilled trades during West Michigan visit AP: Stabenow worried about shortage in trades Marquette Mining Journal: Stabenow touts better training for trades in visit to UP WDET Radio: Michigan Senator says workers must acquire new skills Michigan Radio: Finding new jobs for younger Michiganders WGVU Radio: U.S. Senator Stabenow: Skilled workers in high demand across Michigan WWTV TV 9 & 10: Sen. Stabenow Plans to Reintroduce Bill Expanding Programs For Skilled Trades Training WSJM Radio: Stabenow talks jobs training in Michigan WLUC TV 6: Stabenow wraps up workforce tour at NMU WJMN TV 3: Sen. Stabenow continues UP visit GREAT LAKES RESTORATION SUCCESS STORIES MLIVE: Wave of Support Stops Trump Plan to Halt Great Lakes Funding Hometownlife: Stabenow visits Wayne to highlight success in improving waterways like the Rouge River WEYI TV 25: Senator Stabenow highlights Great Lakes restoration project WWTV TV 9 & 10: U.S. Senator Stabenow Visits Boardman River Restoration Project Interlochen Radio: Interlochen Radio: Stabenow talks boardman dam, Great Lakes funding WWMT TV 3: Sen. Stabenow in Kalamazoo stumping for federal funding for Michigan waterways WXMI TV 17: Kalamazoo River, a success story of Sen. Stabenow’s water restoration initiative WLUC TV 6: Sen. Stabenow celebrates success of Partridge Creek Diversion Project WBUP TV 10: Senator Stabenow talks GLRI with local officials SMALL BUSINESS / MANUFACTURING VISITS Midland Daily News: Sen. Stabenow visits three downtown businesses Cadillac News: Sen. Stabenow meets with Cadillac manufacturers Battle Creek Enquirer: Stabenow on the Growing Small Businesses Act WLUC TV 6: US Senator Debbie Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Munising WJMN TV 3: Stabenow continues statewide small business tour in Munising
09.08.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Maple Rapids Fire Department Friday, September 08, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $94,000 for the Maple Rapids Fire Department to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Maple Rapids put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” "Firefighters and first responders put themselves in harm’s way to protect our homes, businesses and communities," said Senator Gary Peters. "This new funding will help the Maple Rapids Fire Department purchase equipment and supplies so they can better serve the community." Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.08.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Two Upper Peninsula Fire Departments Friday, September 08, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $150,701 for two fire departments in the Upper Peninsula to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. The Kingsford Public Safety Department will receive a $51,979 grant. The Marquette Township Fire and Rescue Department will receive a $98,722 grant. “Our firefighters and first responders in the Upper Peninsula put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” "Upper Peninsula residents and businesses depend on the protection firefighters and first responders provide in an emergency," said Senator Gary Peters. "These funds will help local fire departments purchase the equipment they need to keep firefighters safe on the job and protect their communities." Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.08.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $1.1 Million in Support for West Michigan Fire Departments Friday, September 08, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1,159,525 for fire departments in West Michigan to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. The Bronson Fire Department will receive a $218,264 grant. The Burlington Township Fire Department will receive an $80,917 grant. The Charter Township Department of Comstock Fire & Rescue will receive an $860,344 regional grant. “Our firefighters and first responders in West Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Firefighters and first responders in West Michigan protect our homes, businesses and families,” said Senator Peters. “These new resources will allow fire departments in West Michigan to purchase the equipment they need to effectively and safely serve their communities.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.07.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $680,000 for Chippewa County International Airport Thursday, September 07, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that Chippewa County International Airport in Sault Ste. Marie will receive a $689,269 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to fund the construction of replacement runway lighting systems, runway rehabilitation, an approach survey to identify existing obstructions to runway approaches, and an update to the Airports Geographic Information System data. “Chippewa County International Airport is a critical source for local economic growth, connecting the world to business and tourism opportunities in the Upper Peninsula,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help ensure safe and reliable air travel for the communities in and around Chippewa County.” “This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “The Chippewa Airport provides a significant benefit to the local community, and this grant will help improve airport infrastructure so we continue providing safe and reliable airport operations for all users of the facility,” said Tami Beseau, Airport Manager, Chippewa County International Airport. “These funds will allow us to make upgrades to runway lighting, and paint and seal runway cracks, which will enhance the longevity of our infrastructure. Thanks to the federal government for making these dollars available and to Senator Peters and Senator Stabenow for their continued support of our state’s airports.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
09.01.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $1,600,000 in Support of Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Friday, September 01, 2017 – U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that two fire departments in Southeast Michigan will receive $1,603,144 in funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program to help recruit and hire new firefighters. Redford Township Fire Department is receiving $1,446,584 to hire six new full time firefighters and Armada Township Fire Department is getting $156,560 to recruit new on-call firefighters. “Firefighters and first responders put themselves in harm’s way to protect and serve communities across Southeast Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “This funding is critical to ensuring that Armada Township Fire Department and Redford Township Fire Department have the resources they need to hire and recruit the necessary staff to respond to emergencies.” “Our firefighters in Southeast Michigan put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “These resources will help make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency.” “We feel very fortunate and excited to receive this SAFER grant from FEMA,” said Scott Demoff, Redford Township Fire Chief. “Our staff worked meticulously and diligently to secure this award, which will allow us to hire six new full-time firefighters and place a third rescue squad in service. With this additional support, we anticipate great things for our department, including the ability to operate more efficiently in providing care for the citizens of Redford. I would personally like to thank FEMA for giving us this opportunity to improve our department.” “Our department relies on SAFER grants to help recruit on-call firefighters that help protect and serve our community,” said Dan Reynolds, Armada Township Fire Department Chief. “This funding allows us to recruit students out of local high schools so they can train to become firefighters, launch great careers and boost the number of on-call firefighter and first responders. We appreciate Senator Peters and Stabenow’s support of this vital program.” The SAFER Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The purpose of the program is to ensure that fire departments nationwide are fully staffed and equipped to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards.
09.01.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Investment in Fire Prevention for West Michigan Friday, September 01, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced E.S.C.A.P.E. Inc., a fire safety educational organization in Kalamazoo, will receive $23,334 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program to purchase and install 10-year long-life battery sealed smoke alarms and provide fire safety education to West Michigan children and families. “Providing communities with fire safety training and reliable smoke alarms will ensure that Michiganders are prepared in the event of a fire or other emergency,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help E.S.C.A.P.E. Inc. provide West Michigan children and adults with lifesaving fire safety skills and long lasting smoke detectors that can save their lives in an emergency.” “Our firefighters in Kalamazoo put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Prevention is key and these resources will help save lives and the treasured possessions of so many families.” “Emergencies can strike at any time and it is critical that Michigan families are prepared to respond to dangerous situations," said Firefighter Michael McLeieer, President of E.S.C.A.P.E. Inc. "By receiving this federal Fire Prevention and Safety Grant award from FEMA, we will be able to provide our local firefighters and other fire safety advocates with the tools they need to Make Michigan S.A.F.E. Our goal is to make smoke alarms available at no cost, install them, and provide fire safety education to residents in order to keep them safe.” E.S.C.A.P.E. Inc. provides fire and life safety training to children and adults of all ages in West Michigan. Since their founding in 1995, E.S.C.A.P.E Inc. has educated over 1,000,000 children and adults. According to E.S.C.A.P.E. Inc., at least 40 people who participated in the training program have used those skills to save their family from danger in an emergency. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This equipment is critical to ensuring the safety of firefighters as they respond to emergencies and protect our communities. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.01.2017	Senator Stabenow Highlights Great Lakes Restoration Success Stories Across Michigan, Importance of Federal Funding Stabenow Joins City of Ishpeming, Marquette County, and Michigan Department of Environmental Quality to Celebrate Deer Lake Receiving Clean Bill of Health Friday, September 01, 2017 This month, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow is highlighting Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) success stories throughout Michigan and the importance of federal funding to protect our lakes and waterways. Stabenow today joined the City of Ishpeming, Marquette County and Michigan Department of Environmental Quality to celebrate the Partridge Creek Diversion Project that was critical to Deer Lake receiving a clean bill of health in 2014. Stabenow authored the GLRI in 2010 and is leading the bipartisan effort to stop proposals to eliminate funding for the Initiative next year. Deer Lake was one of 14 “Areas of Concern” in Michigan that were identified in the 1980s by the United States and Canadian governments as having severe, long-term environmental problems. Since the establishment of the GLRI, two Areas of Concern in Michigan have been given a clean bill of health or “de-listed” – Deer Lake and White Lake. The Partridge Creek Diversion Project, completed in 2013, received $14 million through GLRI and stopped the flow of mercury into Deer Lake that made fish unsafe to eat and harmed bald eagle populations. “One in five Michigan jobs are tied to water. It is more important than ever to continue investing in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This successful project is an excellent example of how Great Lakes funding helped Deer Lake get a clean bill of help so more Michigan families and visitors enjoy fishing once again.” “The Partridge Creek Diversion Project was a tremendous blessing to this community,” said Mark Slown, City Manager of Ishpeming. “In the process of delisting the Deer Lake Area of Concern (AOC) and associated environmental problems, significant infrastructure problems for the City of Ishpeming were also resolved. New storm water drainage and associated street reconstruction have helped revitalize our downtown. Thanks to a great team effort from Federal, State, County, and City officials, and from local residents who were advocating for improvements, many people will benefit from this project for decades to come.” “Senator Stabenow played an important role in getting funding for the Partridge Creek project which helped eliminate Deer Lake as an area of concern and was the first site in Michigan delisted by the EPA,” said Gerry Corkin, Marquette County Board Chairman. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is important to Marquette County and this project is a positive result.” According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. GLRI is critical to cleaning up our Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways for swimming, boating, and fishing; fighting invasive species like Asian carp, and protecting our Michigan way of life. Michigan projects have received more than $600 million in funding from the GLRI since its establishment. Michigan has an estimated 2,850 miles of coastal water trails as well as an estimated 1,280 miles of inland water trails. Our canoe and kayak industry annually contributes $140 million to our state’s economy. Partridge Creek/Deer Lake Background Partridge Creek is a small tributary that feeds into Deer Lake. Prior to the diversion project, the creek flowed through the New York pit mine (east of the City of Ishpeming) gathering mercury that then would be deposited in Deer Lake. The Partridge Creek diversion project re-routed the flow of Partridge Creek away from the mine and back to the historic streambeds through the City of Ishpeming. In 2010, the City of Ishpeming received $14 million through GLRI in two grants (matched by $700,000 from the City). The first phase of the project was completed in 2012 and the second was completed in 2013. Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program In addition to leading the effort in the Senate on fully funding the GLRI, Senator Stabenow is also championing legislation to protect and restore our recreational fisheries. In June, she introduced the Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program Act (S. 1332) to improve Great Lakes fisheries and encourage habitat restoration by repairing and replacing aging dams, culverts, and roads. There are thousands of these structures across the Great Lakes Basin that currently inhibit the movement of fish populations. Great Lakes states and tribal governments will be able to recommend grant projects to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to expand fish access to waterways and work to prevent the spread of invasive species when addressing aging infrastructure.
09.01.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Support for Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians Fire and Rescue Department Friday, September 01, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians Fire and Rescue Department will receive $193,816 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program to help hire two new full-time firefighter EMTs. “The community depends on the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians Fire and Rescue Department to protect their homes, businesses and loved ones during an emergency,” said Senator Gary Peters. “This critical new funding will allow the department to hire two new full-time first responders so the department can more efficiently serve the community.” “Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “These resources will help Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians Fire and Rescue make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency.” “The SAFER grant will increase capacity at the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa & Chippewa Indians (GTB) Fire Department with two additional Firefighter II/EMT positions,” said Mary Pelcher, Tribal Manager. “The increased capacity will allow GTB Fire Department to address tribal community needs of emergency response and conduct regular fire drills in tribal schools, daycare, and governmental facilities, as well as provide the tribal community with pertinent educational and training programs. It will also allow GTB Fire Department to promote an active working relationship between local, state, and federal agencies.” The SAFER Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The purpose of the program is to ensure that fire departments nationwide are fully staffed and equipped to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards.
09.01.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Statewide Series of Workforce Discussions in Marquette Stabenow Meets with Local Business and Labor Leaders, Educators and Parents at Northern Michigan University in Marquette Friday, September 01, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today continued her week-long series of workforce discussions across Michigan at Northern Michigan University’s Jacobetti Complex in Marquette. The discussion focused on how to better fill the demand for skilled workers in Michigan and provide professional career and training opportunities for students who don’t choose a four-year college path after high school or workers who want to be retrained for new jobs. Stabenow met with local business and labor leaders, Northern Michigan University, educators, and parents. Senator Stabenow frequently meets with business owners who express a critical need for more skilled workers, labor leaders who offer opportunities for training and apprenticeships for good paying jobs in the skilled trades, parents frustrated with the lack of opportunities for their children who are not college bound, and educators who are innovating to meet these needs. She is bringing these leaders together in communities across the state to discuss how we can partner to meet the needs of employers and provide job opportunities for all Michigan workers and students. “I’ve visited over 110 small businesses in the past year and the number one issue I hear about is the need for more skilled workers,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus. “Not every young person is interested in getting a four-year college degree. It’s important that they know there are great jobs in professional skilled trades and technical careers. To grow our economy for businesses and workers, we all need to work together to raise public awareness of these great job opportunities across Michigan.” “Northern Michigan is excited to join with Senator Stabenow and community leaders to discuss skilled trades and other workforce development. As one of the few universities in the state that offers programs from the one- and two-year certificate/diploma level up to a doctorate, Northern is proud to be an educator of employees for all types of professions and to provide training at all levels as employees advance through their careers,” said NMU President Fritz Erickson. “We're also extremely interested in hearing from business and industry leaders about the changing skill set demands for their employees, so our faculty can design the curricula to best fit the demands of their current and future jobs, including those in the skilled trades.” “As an economic developer, we spend our days working with businesses across the region, and I can tell you that talent is the number one concern we hear,” said Amy J. Clickner, Executive Director of Lake Superior Community Partnership. “In order to assist businesses, we need to collaborate with all stakeholders to increase the awareness of the opportunities for family sustaining jobs in the professional skilled trades.” “It is imperative we communicate more with students and parents about the skilled trades,” said Doug Leisenring, Superintendent of Delta-Schoolcraft ISD. “Many families are unaware of the tremendous career opportunities available to our high school graduates that do not require a four-year college degree.” Senator Stabenow authored the New Skills for New Jobs Act of 2015 that builds on successful job training partnerships between our community colleges and local businesses to help close the skills gap and support businesses that are ready to hire. Stabenow plans to reintroduce this legislation in the fall following feedback from stakeholders during her workforce discussions. According to a study conducted by National Association of Manufacturers and Deloitte, by 2025, over 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will need to be filled. Yet due to the skills gap, 2 million of those jobs will go unfilled. The study also revealed that while Americans consider manufacturing among one of the most important domestic industries for maintaining a strong national economy, they rank it low as a career choice for themselves. Only 37 percent of respondents in the study indicated they would encourage their children to pursue a manufacturing career.
09.01.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Munising Friday, September 01, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Munising as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at VanLandschoot & Sons Fish Market, Muldoons Pasties and the Pictured Rocks Boat Cruises. Stabenow’s tour has included over 110 stops in communities across the state including Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace, Escanaba and Newberry. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Munising who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses that are getting started or planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. “The Senator was truly engaged with our discussions, and interested in our Company, our commercial fishing company is celebrating our 104 anniversary,” said Dennis VanLandschoot, Owner of VanLandschoot & Sons Fish Market. “I felt she fully understood the Legacy and our challenges as a small business.” “Happy that Senator Stabenow is interested and concerned about small businesses like ours,” said Tony Grahovac, Co-Owner of Muldoon’s Pasties & Gifts. “It is great to have someone in Washington who cares about us and is working to fight for small businesses.”
08.31.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Statewide Series of Workforce Discussions in Traverse City Thursday, August 31, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today continued her week-long series of workforce discussions across Michigan at Northwestern Michigan College's Hagerty Center in Traverse City. The discussion focused on how to better fill the demand for skilled workers in Michigan and provide professional career and training opportunities for students who don’t choose a four-year college path after high school or workers who want to be retrained for new jobs. Stabenow met with local business and labor leaders, Northwestern Michigan College, and Grand Traverse Bay Area Intermediate School District. Senator Stabenow frequently meets with business owners who express a critical need for more skilled workers, labor leaders who offer opportunities for training and apprenticeships for good paying jobs in the skilled trades, parents frustrated with the lack of opportunities for their children who are not college bound, and educators who are innovating to meet these needs. She is bringing these leaders together in communities across the state to discuss how we can partner to meet the needs of employers and provide job opportunities for all Michigan workers and students. “I’ve visited over 110 small businesses in the past year and the number one issue I hear about is the need for more skilled workers,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus. “Not every young person is interested in getting a four-year college degree. It’s important that they know there are great jobs in professional skilled trades and technical careers. To grow our economy for businesses and workers, we all need to work together to raise public awareness of these great job opportunities across Michigan.” “Community colleges are uniquely situated to provide learners with the skills and tools necessary to compete and succeed in the 21st Century economy,” said Timothy J. Nelson, President of Northwestern Michigan College. “To address these needs, we at NMC are continuously transforming the learning experience and its global relevance to those we serve through innovation, agility and thoughtful risk-taking. We appreciate Senator Stabenow’s support in this effort and for recognizing the importance of the community college model in continued economic growth and success.” “Manufacturing is alive and well in Northern Michigan!” said Kevin Schlueter, President and CEO of Kalkaska Screw Products. “I am confident that all manufacturers, here and all over the United States, are struggling with finding employees with the skills necessary to work in our facilities. Most, if not all, manufacturers have positions to fill and the pool of potential employees is extremely small and un-skilled. We all need to do more to train potential employees that want to work in manufacturing, or, financially support those of us that are training new employees to work in our plants. I stand ready to work with any and all that are willing to work on improving the skill-set of employees who want to work in manufacturing. “As educators, we must make sure we are preparing our students for every opportunity after they graduate high school,” said Mike Hill, Superintendent of the Grand Traverse Bay Area Intermediate School District. “Our region and state is in need of skilled labor. Our mission is to prepare our young people for successful future employment. We are excited to host Senator Stabenow for this important discussion to shine light on high wage job opportunities, which may not require a four year post-secondary degree.” Senator Stabenow authored the New Skills for New Jobs Act of 2015 that builds on successful job training partnerships between our community colleges and local businesses to help close the skills gap and support businesses that are ready to hire. Stabenow plans to reintroduce this legislation in the fall following feedback from stakeholders during her workforce discussions. According to a study conducted by National Association of Manufacturers and Deloitte, by 2025, over 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will need to be filled. Yet due to the skills gap, 2 million of those jobs will go unfilled. The study also revealed that while Americans consider manufacturing among one of the most important domestic industries for maintaining a strong national economy, they rank it low as a career choice for themselves. Only 37 percent of respondents in the study indicated they would encourage their children to pursue a manufacturing career.
08.31.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $1.1 Million for Charlevoix Municipal Airport Thursday, August 31, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the City of Charlevoix will receive $1,176,592 to rehabilitate runways at Charlevoix Municipal Airport. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. “This investment will make travelling to and from Northern Michigan safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Northern Michigan residents rely on Charlevoix Municipal Airport to support regional businesses and connect them to the world,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased to announce this funding that will help rehabilitate runways so our communities can continue to benefit from safe and reliable local air service.” The Runway Incursion Management program helps airports reduce the risk of runway incursions. Incursions occur when an aircraft, vehicle, or person enters the protected area of an airport designated for aircraft landings and take offs. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/.
08.30.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Statewide Series of Workforce Discussions in Grand Rapids Stabenow Meets with Local Business and Labor Leaders, Educators, Students and Parents at Kent Career Tech Center in Grand Rapids Wednesday, August 30, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow continued her week-long series of workforce discussions across Michigan at the Kent Career Tech Center in Grand Rapids. The discussion focused on how to better fill the demand for skilled workers in Michigan and provide professional career and training opportunities for students who don’t choose a four-year college path after high school or workers who want to be retrained for new jobs. Stabenow met with local business and labor leaders, Grand Rapids Community College, Kent Intermediate School District, students and local parents. Senator Stabenow frequently meets with business owners who express a critical need for more skilled workers, labor leaders who offer opportunities for training and apprenticeships for good paying jobs in the skilled trades, parents frustrated with the lack of opportunities for their children who are not college bound, and educators who are innovating to meet these needs. She is bringing these leaders together in communities across the state to discuss how we can partner to meet the needs of employers and provide job opportunities for all Michigan workers and students. “I’ve visited over 110 small businesses in the past year and the number one issue I hear about is the need for more skilled workers,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus. “Not every young person is interested in getting a four-year college degree. It’s important that they know there are great jobs in professional skilled trades and technical careers. To grow our economy for businesses and workers, we all need to work together to raise public awareness of these great job opportunities across Michigan.” We appreciate Sen. Stabenow's continued support of community colleges, and the important role we play in shaping West Michigan’s skilled workforce,” said Grand Rapids Community College President Bill Pink. “At GRCC, one of our important roles is to serve our community and its workforce needs. Our collaborative relationships are critical to ensuring that our educational opportunities are accessible and relevant. Being responsive to the needs of our community will benefit all involved- our employer partners, the skilled workers we train and West Michigan as a whole. This work truly elevates our community.” “As educators, we must make sure we are preparing our students for every opportunity after they graduate high school, and help them recognize every degree and credential they earn is a step toward a career, not an end unto itself,” said Ronald Caniff, Superintendent of Kent Intermediate School District. “We are excited to host Senator Stabenow for this important discussion to shine a light on high wage, high skill and high demand job opportunities that may not require four years of college.” “I was able to tell Senator Stabenow about how we have job openings right now for workers with the right skills but we can’t fill the positions,” said Jon DeWys, Owner of DeWys Manufacturing. “I appreciate her commitment to helping businesses, manufacturers, and K-12 schools meet this need and bringing us together to raise awareness.” "West Michigan Building Trades is proud of our Apprenticeship programs,” said Hugh Coward, Western Michigan Field Representative for the Michigan State Building and Construction Trades Council. “We are training the next generation of skilled tradesman every day in our earn-while-you-learn programs that provide great wages, health care, pensions, and no college debt. I thank Senator Stabenow for understanding and supporting our programs that fulfill the needs for future skilled tradesman and focusing on connecting students, parents and educators to the opportunities our programs bring to the table." Senator Stabenow authored the New Skills for New Jobs Act of 2015 that builds on successful job training partnerships between our community colleges and local businesses to help close the skills gap and support businesses that are ready to hire. Stabenow plans to reintroduce this legislation in the fall following feedback from stakeholders during her workforce discussions. According to a study conducted by National Association of Manufacturers and Deloitte, by 2025, over 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will need to be filled. Yet due to the skills gap, 2 million of those jobs will go unfilled. The study also revealed that while Americans consider manufacturing among one of the most important domestic industries for maintaining a strong national economy, they rank it low as a career choice for themselves. Only 37 percent of respondents in the study indicated they would encourage their children to pursue a manufacturing career. ###
08.30.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Statewide Series of Workforce Discussions in Perry Stabenow Meets with Local Business and Labor Leaders, Educators, and Parents at the Michigan Laborers Training and Apprenticeship Institute in Perry Wednesday, August 30, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow continued her week-long series of workforce discussions across Michigan at the Michigan Laborers Training and Apprenticeship Institute in Perry. The discussion focused on how to better fill the demand for skilled workers in Michigan and provide professional career and training opportunities for students who don’t choose a four-year college path after high school or workers who want to be retrained for new jobs. Stabenow met with local business and labor leaders, Lansing Community College, Ingham Intermediate School District, and local parents. Senator Stabenow frequently meets with business owners who express a critical need for more skilled workers, labor leaders who offer opportunities for training and apprenticeships for good paying jobs in the skilled trades, parents frustrated with the lack of opportunities for their children who are not college bound, and educators who are innovating to meet these needs. She is bringing these leaders together in communities across the state to discuss how we can partner to meet the needs of employers and provide job opportunities for all Michigan workers and students. “I’ve visited over 110 small businesses in the past year and the number one issue I hear about is the need for more skilled workers,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus. “Not every young person is interested in getting a four-year college degree. It’s important that they know there are great jobs in professional skilled trades and technical careers. To grow our economy for businesses and workers, we all need to work together to raise public awareness of these great job opportunities across Michigan.” “Conversations like these highlight one of Michigan’s greatest assets, its skilled workforce,” said Baldomero "Bo" Garcia, Dean of Community Education & Workforce Development at Lansing Community College. “Lansing Community College takes very seriously its charge to create relevant learning opportunities that translate into viable employment options.” "For decades, the members of the Michigan Laborers have literally built our communities including new roads and bridges and the pipelines that provide us all with the energy we need to grow the economy," said Geno Alessandrini, Business Manager for the Michigan Laborers District Council. "Our Union is dedicated to providing the highest level of productivity and safety for our members at no-cost to Michigan taxpayers. We are glad Senator Stabenow could see first-hand the hard work performed by union laborers every day." “We have job openings right now for workers with the right skills but we can’t fill the need,” said Edythe Hatter-Williams, CEO of Capital Area Michigan Works! “I appreciate Senator Stabenow's support for the Michigan Works! system and for her commitment to helping businesses and manufacturers meet this need by partnering together to raise awareness.” Senator Stabenow authored the New Skills for New Jobs Act of 2015 that builds on successful job training partnerships between our community colleges and local businesses to help close the skills gap and support businesses that are ready to hire. Stabenow plans to reintroduce this legislation in the fall following feedback from stakeholders during her workforce discussions. According to a study conducted by National Association of Manufacturers and Deloitte, by 2025, over 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will need to be filled. Yet due to the skills gap, 2 million of those jobs will go unfilled. The study also revealed that while Americans consider manufacturing among one of the most important domestic industries for maintaining a strong national economy, they rank it low as a career choice for themselves. Only 37 percent of respondents in the study indicated they would encourage their children to pursue a manufacturing career. ###
08.29.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Statewide Series of Workforce Discussions in Flint Stabenow Meets with Local Business and Labor Leaders, Educators, and Parents at Mott Community College’s Regional Technology Center in Flint Tuesday, August 29, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today continued her week-long series of workforce discussions across Michigan at Mott Community College’s Regional Technology Center in Flint. The discussion focused on how to better fill the demand for skilled workers in Michigan and provide professional career and training opportunities for students who don’t choose a four-year college path after high school or workers who want to be retrained for new jobs. Stabenow met with local business and labor leaders, Mott Community College, Genesee Intermediate School District, and local parents. Senator Stabenow frequently meets with business owners who express a critical need for more skilled workers, labor leaders who offer opportunities for training and apprenticeships for good paying jobs in the skilled trades, parents frustrated with the lack of opportunities for their children who are not college bound, and educators who are innovating to meet these needs. She is bringing these leaders together in communities across the state to discuss how we can partner to meet the needs of employers and provide job opportunities for all Michigan workers and students. “I’ve visited over 110 small businesses in the past year and the number one issue I hear about is the need for more skilled workers,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus. “Not every young person is interested in getting a four-year college degree. It’s important that they know there are great jobs in professional skilled trades and technical careers. To grow our economy for businesses and workers, we all need to work together to raise public awareness of these great job opportunities across Michigan.” “Senator Stabenow is a true champion of Michigan’s community colleges,” said Mott Community College President, Dr. Beverly Walker-Griffea. “Her commitment and continuing support of our job training programs and partnerships with local businesses are helping to strengthen our community and our state.” “For several years now, my firm has had difficulty finding qualified, skilled workers to fill the openings created with our company’s growth,” said Thomas L. Self, CEO of Premier Tooling Systems in Grand Blanc. “Senator Stabenow has demonstrated her commitment to small and medium businesses in Michigan by bringing together educational resources and business in an effort to increase awareness and to find solutions to this issue. “As educators, we must make sure we are preparing our students for every opportunity after they graduate high school,” Denise Belt, Executive Director Career & Technical Education Genesee Intermediate School District. “We are excited to host Senator Stabenow in Genesee County for this important discussion to shine a light on high wage job opportunities that do not require four years of college.” Senator Stabenow authored the New Skills for New Jobs Act of 2015 that builds on successful job training partnerships between our community colleges and local businesses to help close the skills gap and support businesses that are ready to hire. Stabenow plans to reintroduce this legislation in the fall following feedback from stakeholders during her workforce discussions. According to a study conducted by National Association of Manufacturers and Deloitte, by 2025, over 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will need to be filled. Yet due to the skills gap, 2 million of those jobs will go unfilled. The study also revealed that while Americans consider manufacturing among one of the most important domestic industries for maintaining a strong national economy, they rank it low as a career choice for themselves. Only 37 percent of respondents in the study indicated they would encourage their children to pursue a manufacturing career.
08.29.2017	Senator Stabenow Kicks Off Series of Workforce Discussions Across Michigan Stabenow Meets with Local Business and Labor Leaders, Educators, and Parents at the Detroit Electrical Industry Training Center in Warren Tuesday, August 29, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today kicked off a week-long series of workforce discussions across Michigan at the Detroit Electrical Industry Training Center in Warren. The discussion focused on how to better fill the demand for skilled workers in Michigan and provide professional career and training opportunities for students who don’t choose a four-year college path after high school or workers who want to be retrained for new jobs. Stabenow met with local business and labor leaders, Macomb Community College, Macomb Intermediate School District, and local parents. Senator Stabenow frequently meets with business owners who express a critical need for more skilled workers, labor leaders who offer opportunities for training and apprenticeships for good paying jobs in the skilled trades, parents frustrated with the lack of opportunities for their children who are not college bound, and educators who are innovating to meet these needs. She is bringing these leaders together in communities across the state to discuss how we can partner to meet the needs of employers and provide job opportunities for all Michigan workers and students. “I’ve visited over 110 small businesses in the past year and the number one issue I hear about is the need for more skilled workers,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus. “Not every young person is interested in getting a four-year college degree. It’s important that they know there are great jobs in professional skilled trades and technical careers. To grow our economy for businesses and workers, we all need to work together to raise public awareness of these great job opportunities across Michigan.” “We are training new apprentices everyday with skills that will help them earn a great wage without any college debt,” said Jason Dahl, Training Director of the Detroit Electrical Industry Training Institute. “I want to thank Senator Stabenow for supporting our efforts and focusing on how we can work together and make more students and parents aware of these opportunities and fill the demand for high-skilled, good paying jobs.” “Macomb Community College has a long history of working closely with employers to prepare individuals for the jobs of today and tomorrow,” said James O. Sawyer IV, President, Macomb Community College. “We’re also committed to building heightened awareness with youth and their parents about the well-paying and meaningful career opportunities available to those with community college credentials. We applaud Senator Stabenow’s continued support of the Michigan New Jobs Training Program and her efforts to highlight the great options available to those with technical skills.” “As leaders, we are preparing our students for every opportunity after they graduate high school including the many Career Technical Education programs available at our high schools throughout the county,” said Michael DeVault, Superintendent, Macomb Intermediate School District. “We are excited to join Senator Stabenow for this important discussion and to shine a light on high wage job opportunities that do not require four years of college.” Senator Stabenow authored the New Skills for New Jobs Act of 2015 that builds on successful job training partnerships between our community colleges and local businesses to help close the skills gap and support businesses that are ready to hire. Stabenow plans to reintroduce this legislation in the fall following feedback from stakeholders during her workforce discussions. According to a study conducted by National Association of Manufacturers and Deloitte, by 2025, over 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will need to be filled. Yet due to the skills gap, 2 million of those jobs will go unfilled. The study also revealed that while Americans consider manufacturing among one of the most important domestic industries for maintaining a strong national economy, they rank it low as a career choice for themselves. Only 37 percent of respondents in the study indicated they would encourage their children to pursue a manufacturing career.
08.28.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $300,000 Investment to Protect Against Harmful Algae Blooms in Lake Erie Monday, August 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced the Great Lakes Observing System Regional Association will receive $309,305 to help prevent the spread of harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. The grant comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Ocean Technology Transition Program. The Great Lakes Observing System Regional Association is based in Ann Arbor and works to enhance the ability to collect, deliver and use data on the Great Lakes. “The algae blooms in Lake Erie that shut down Toledo’s water system in 2014 were a wake-up call about why investments in conservation are critically important to the health of our Great Lakes and drinking water,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This announcement builds off the work already being done to monitor and prevent algae blooms in Lake Erie thanks to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the Regional Conservation Partnership Program.” “Monroe County relies on Lake Erie to provide reliable and safe drinking water to their communities,” said Senator Peters. “This funding helps local drinking water managers have the data they need to monitor harmful algal blooms and ensure families in southeast Michigan can enjoy clean drinking water.” Lake Erie is the water source for the South County Water District, which provides drinking water to southern Monroe County, Michigan. In August 2014, nearly 30,000 customers in Monroe County were affected by a water use ban due to contamination from toxins produced by algae blooms in Lake Erie. Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) in Lake Erie are a recurring problem that threatens the local drinking water source and significantly degrades the ecosystem. These new resources will support continued annual monitoring, reporting, and dissemination of HABs data. Collaborations between water managers and researchers in the region will help provide timely, user-friendly access to data used to make informed decisions about resources affected by HABs. ###
08.24.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Midland Thursday, August 24, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Midland as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Live Oak Coffeehouse, Coyer Candle Co., and Heather ‘n Holly. Stabenow’s tour has included over 110 stops in communities across the state including Eaton Rapids, Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Midland who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses that are getting started or planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. "We feel so blessed and honored to have had Senator Stabenow and her staff choose Heather ‘n Holly as a stop on the Senator's Small Business Tour,” said Heather Mickam, Manager of Heather ‘n Holly. “The Senator was so focused, attentive and sincerely interested in our business and what our shop has to offer. We were so pleased to have her visit us and so delighted when she asked us to let her know if we needed anything." “Senator Stabenow was very interested in knowing about our company, loves Michigan and was a very kind person; we are happy to have met her!” said Lisa Coyer, Owner of Coyer Candle Co. “It meant a lot to us that Senator Stabenow would take the time out of her busy schedule to come check out our business and meet our little community of employees and guests who are the reason we love what we do!” said Renee' Deckrow, Owner of Live Oak Coffeehouse. “We have put our heart and soul into making this dream a reality; the journey has been full of both challenge and joy. Even in the growth stage, the joys have outweighed the challenges. It was fun to have the opportunity to share a little of both with Senator Stabenow and to feel her genuine interest. ###
08.24.2017	Senator Stabenow Highlights Great Lakes Restoration Success Stories Across Michigan, Importance of Federal Funding Thursday, August 24, 2017 This month, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow is highlighting Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) success stories throughout Michigan and the importance of federal funding to protect our lakes and waterways. Stabenow today joined Sheila Stamiris, Executive Director of the Frankenmuth Downtown Development Authority, Mike Kelly, Director of the Saginaw Bay Watershed Initiative Network, and Randy Claramunt, Michigan Department of Natural Resources Fish Biologist, to recognize the completion of the Frankenmuth Fish Passage project. Stabenow authored the GLRI in 2010 and is leading the bipartisan effort to stop proposals to eliminate funding for the Initiative next year. The Frankenmuth Fish Passage project received $2.3 million through GLRI to reconnect fish in the Saginaw Bay to more than 73 miles of important spawning areas. The project benefits Frankenmuth’s local economy by supporting tourism and recreation. “One in five Michigan jobs are tied to water. It is more important than ever to continue investing in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This successful project here in Frankenmuth is an excellent example of how Great Lakes funding is helping more Michigan families and visitors enjoy boating, fishing, kayaking, and canoeing.” “As a tourism and employment center, Frankenmuth is blessed with resources,” said Sheila Stamiris, Director of the Frankenmuth Downtown Development Authority. “While beautiful, the Cass River was overlooked as an asset. With the assistance of funding through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, the community was able to remove an environmental obstacle to create a new tourism destination and provide a new opportunity for public access to the river. The GLRI leveraged investment from the City, from local foundations and businesses to build a winning model that marries environment and economy – all for the better good.” “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative has been a key factor in major environmental restoration and protection projects over the last few years across the Saginaw Bay Watershed,” said Mike Kelly, Director of the Saginaw Bay Watershed Initiative Network Project. “Funding from GLRI has allowed for the removal of dams, including the one in Frankenmuth, and allowed for the reconnection of hundreds of miles of streams which has been important for wildlife and also recreation. Projects such as those, as well as other major restoration efforts, are not only key to our environmental health, but are also important to our regional economy.” According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. GLRI is critical to cleaning up our Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways for swimming, boating, and fishing; fighting invasive species like Asian carp, and protecting our Michigan way of life. Michigan projects have received more than $600 million in funding from the GLRI since its establishment. Michigan has an estimated 2,850 miles of coastal water trails as well as an estimated 1,280 miles of inland water trails. Our canoe and kayak industry annually contributes $140 million to our state’s economy. Frankenmuth Fish Passage Project Background Fish species like walleye and lake sturgeon use rivers and tributaries for spawning before returning to the Saginaw Bay, where they spend most of their adult lives. Before the Frankenmuth Fish Passage project was completed, the Cass River Dam prevented these fish from accessing important spawning areas, leading to a significant decline in fish population in the Saginaw Bay. Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program In addition to leading the effort in the Senate on fully funding the GLRI, Senator Stabenow is also championing legislation to protect and restore our recreational fisheries. In June, she introduced the Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program Act (S. 1332) to improve Great Lakes fisheries and encourage habitat restoration by repairing and replacing aging dams, culverts, and roads. There are thousands of these structures across the Great Lakes Basin that currently inhibit the movement of fish populations. Great Lakes states and tribal governments will be able to recommend grant projects to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to expand fish access to waterways and work to prevent the spread of invasive species when addressing aging infrastructure.
08.23.2017	Senator Stabenow Highlights Great Lakes Restoration Success Stories Across Michigan, Importance of Federal Funding Wednesday, August 23, 2017 This month, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow is highlighting Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) success stories throughout Michigan and the importance of federal funding to protect our lakes and waterways. Stabenow today joined Steve Largent, Boardman River Program Coordinator and Trout Unlimited member, and Amy Beyer, Executive Director of the Conservation Resource Alliance, to highlight The Boardman: A River Reborn, a community project to restore the Boardman River. Stabenow authored the GLRI in 2010 and is leading the bipartisan effort to stop proposals to eliminate funding for the Initiative next year. The current phase of the project has received over eight million dollars through GLRI to reconnect 160 miles of the river by removing three aging dams. It is one of the most comprehensive dam removal and river restoration projects in Michigan’s history that will help improve the Boardman River’s water quality, restore passage for fish and wildlife, and create new opportunities for kayaking and canoeing. “One in five Michigan jobs are tied to water. It is more important than ever to continue investing in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This ongoing project here in Traverse City is an excellent example of how Great Lakes funding is helping to restore our rivers so more Michigan families and visitors can enjoy fishing, kayaking, and canoeing.” “We are using GLRI funds to leverage local, state and private philanthropy resources to do projects that ensure Northern Michigan continues to thrive as a top outdoor recreation destination,” said Amy Beyer, Executive Director of Conservation Resource Alliance. “The projects provide jobs for contractors, engineers and small businesses which help CRA to restore whole river systems, remove or improve aging infrastructure like dams and failing road crossings, and permanently protect the fisheries, wildlife and freshwater resources for the future.” “The current removal Boardman Dam in conjunction with the removal of Brown Bridge dam in 2012 and the scheduled removal of Sabin Dam in 2018 will restore the connectivity of the Boardman River from an ecological standpoint and the cold water component that makes all our northern Michigan rivers so special,” said Steve Largent, Boardman River Program Coordinator and Trout Unlimited Member. “From fisherman to paddlers, the Boardman River will provide new opportunities and incredible adventures. As we move forward our new challenge as stewards of this fragile resource is to make sure that these new recreational opportunities are balanced with the ecological health of the river. According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. GLRI is critical to cleaning up our Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways for swimming, boating, and fishing; fighting invasive species like Asian carp, and protecting our Michigan way of life. Michigan projects have received more than $600 million in funding from the GLRI since its establishment. Michigan has an estimated 2,850 miles of coastal water trails as well as an estimated 1,280 miles of inland water trails. Our canoe and kayak industry annually contributes $140 million to our state’s economy. The Boardman: A River Reborn Background The Boardman River is located in Northwest Michigan and runs through Grand Traverse and Kalkaska counties. It is one of the top ten trout streams in Michigan. In 2004, Traverse City Light and Power discontinued hydropower generation at three dams on the Boardman River and the community decided to remove the dams and restore the river to a more natural state. Phase I of the project included the removal of Brown Bridge Dam in 2012 and the restoration of the natural habitat for fish and wildlife in that area. Phase II of the project has also begun with the construction of a new bridge on Cass Road spanning the Boardman River. The Boardman Dam is currently being removed as part of Phase II and more restoration work will s00n take place. Phase III of the project will remove the Sabin dam. Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program In addition to leading the effort in the Senate on fully funding the GLRI, Senator Stabenow is also championing legislation to protect and restore our recreational fisheries. In June, she introduced the Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program Act (S. 1332) to improve Great Lakes fisheries and encourage habitat restoration by repairing and replacing aging dams, culverts, and roads. There are thousands of these structures across the Great Lakes Basin that currently inhibit the movement of fish populations. Great Lakes states and tribal governments will be able to recommend grant projects to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to expand fish access to waterways and work to prevent the spread of invasive species when addressing aging infrastructure. ###
08.22.2017	Senators Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $5.9 Million for Sawyer International Airport Tuesday, August 22, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Sawyer International Airport has been awarded two grants from the Department of Transportation (DOT) totaling $5,967,513 to support airport improvement projects, including runway rehabilitation. “This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Airports are a key source of economic growth for the Upper Peninsula, connecting the world to exciting and innovative opportunities in Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to announce this funding, which will ensure Sawyer International Airport can update their runways and continue offering safe and efficient air travel.” “Sawyer Airport is a critical link between Marquette and the outside world, helping to support economic development and local businesses,” said Duane DuRay, Sawyer Airport Manager. “This new funding will allow Marquette County to complete a long overdue runway rehabilitation project while at the same time reducing operating expenses and continue to offer great service to Marquette and other communities in the Upper Peninsula.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants. ###
08.21.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce $60,000 of Support for Perrinton Fire Department Monday, August 21, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Perrinton Fire Department will receive $60,000 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program to purchase a compressor and cascade system for filling self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) air tanks. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Perrinton put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Perrinton Firefighters and first responders protect our businesses, families and homes during emergencies,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to announce these new resources that will allow the Perrinton Fire Department to update their equipment so they can continue to protect the community safely and effectively.” “It is important that we have the right equipment to do our jobs protecting the community,” said Jason Blemaster, Fire/Recuse Chief, Perrinton Fire Department. “Our current SCBA tank filling station is out of date and cannot be serviced any more. This grant will give us the funds we need to replace our compressor and cascade system for filling our SCBA tanks so we can continue to safely serve the community.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This equipment is critical to ensuring the safety of firefighters as they respond to emergencies and protect our communities. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
08.18.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Dearborn Fire Department Friday, August 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Dearborn Fire Department will receive $1,795,092 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program to help hire new full-time firefighters. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Dearborn Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “When emergency strikes, firefighters are on the scene to keep families and businesses safe,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to announce this support for the Dearborn Fire Department, which will help them hire additional staff to keep the community safe.” The SAFER Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The purpose of the program is to ensure that fire departments nationwide are fully staffed and equipped to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards.
08.18.2017	Stabenow Statement on Fish and Wildlife Analysis of Live Silver Carp Found Near Lake Michigan Friday, August 18, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, released a statement on a U.S. Fish and Wildlife analysis of the live Silver carp recently found nine miles from Lake Michigan: “This is the first time that a live Silver carp has been found this close to Lake Michigan. Now, we have proof that it went through the Brandon Road Lock and Dam. Time is of the essence to both implement a permanent solution and take immediate steps to stop Asian carp from reaching our Great Lakes.” The analysis found that the wild eight-pound carp lived in the Illinois River for three to four years and made its way through the Brandon Road Lock and Dam to a location just miles from Lake Michigan.
08.18.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $1.5 Million in Support for Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety Friday, August 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety will receive $1,547,983 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program to hire twelve new full-time public safety officers. "Our public safety officers put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Communities depend on public safety officers for critical emergency response and public safety services,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased to announce this funding for the Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety, which will support additional staff to keep help better serve the community.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to guarantee departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants. ###
08.18.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Scio Township Fire Department Friday, August 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Scio Township Fire Department will receive $29,500 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program to help recruit new full-time firefighters. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help Scio Township Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Residents rely on the vital protection firefighters provide in the event of an emergency,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help support the staffing needs of the Scio Township Fire Department so they can efficiently do their jobs and protect public safety.” The SAFER Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The purpose of the program is to ensure that fire departments nationwide are fully staffed and equipped to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards.
08.18.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $400,000 in Support for Madison Township Fire Department Friday, August 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Madison Township Fire Department will receive $411,654 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program to help hire three new full-time firefighters. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help Madison Township Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Firefighters play a crucial role in protecting families, communities and businesses during emergencies,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will ensure that the Madison Township Fire Department can hire additional staff so they are prepared when emergency strikes.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to guarantee departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants.
08.17.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $100,000 of Support for Armada Township Fire Department Thursday, August 17, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced Armada Township Fire Department will receive $104,762 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program to purchase a new quick attack/brush truck, a firefighting vehicle that can operate in a range of environments. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “It is critical that our firefighters and first responders have the tools they need to stay safe while they work to protect our communities,” Senator Peters said. “These new resources will help the Armada Township Fire Department purchase a new truck so they can better respond to emergency situations.” “Our firefighters in Armada Township put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to this new vehicle, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This equipment is critical to ensuring the safety of firefighters as they respond to emergencies and protect our communities. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.17.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $320,000 of Support for West Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, August 17, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that two fire departments in West Michigan will receive $328,583 in funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. Montcalm County Emergency Services has been awarded $154,773 to purchase ten Automatic Compression Devices (ACD) that will provide First Responders with another set of hands when treating a patient. The Allegan Fire District has been awarded $173,810 to purchase 24 new air bottles and 24 new self-contained breathing apparatuses. “Firefighters and first responders safeguard our homes, families and business,” said Senator Peters. “The new resources provided by this grant will allow Montcalm County Emergency Services and Allegan Fire District to purchase new equipment that will allow their firefighters and first responders to effectively and safely respond to emergencies.” “Our firefighters in West Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “High Quality CPR may mean the difference between life or death when a patient suffers from cardiac arrest,” said Brandon Mulnix, Montcalm County EMS Supervisor. “In rural settings, our First Responders may have to do CPR for extended periods of times by themselves. The Automatic Compression Device will provide high quality CPR making the interventions of Advanced Life Support more effective and help save lives.” “The funding provided by this grant will help our fire district purchase new self-contained breathing apparatuses and air bottles so every firefighter has the equipment they need to safely do their jobs,” said Jon Cook, Chairman of the Allegan Fire District Board of Directors. “Thank you to FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security for providing the much needed equipment to keep our firefighters safe.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This equipment is critical to ensuring the safety of firefighters as they respond to emergencies and protect our communities. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.16.2017	Stabenow Statement on Beginning of Talks to Renegotiate NAFTA Wednesday, August 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement on the beginning of talks between the United States, Canada, and Mexico to renegotiate NAFTA: “Given NAFTA’s importance to our workers, businesses, farmers, and our economy in Michigan, a modernization is long overdue. As talks begin this week, it is critical that the Trump Administration focus on stronger trade enforcement, combating currency manipulation, enacting strong and effective labor and environmental rules, and updating provisions related to the new technology economy. Any changes to NAFTA need to lead to an improvement in our quality of life and higher wages for Michigan families, not a race to the bottom. The goal must be to export our products, not our jobs!”
08.14.2017	Stabenow Announces New Legislation to Crack Down on Prescription Drug Costs and Increase Drug Price Transparency Monday, August 14, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced two new bills she is sponsoring to crack down on skyrocketing prescription drug prices. The Empowering Medicare Seniors to Negotiate Drug Prices Act would allow Medicare to negotiate the best possible prices of prescription drugs to cut costs for nearly 41 million seniors enrolled in Medicare Part D. Current law only allows for bargaining by pharmaceutical companies and bans Medicare from doing so. The Stopping the Pharmaceutical Industry from Keeping Drugs Expensive (SPIKE) Act would increase transparency by requiring drug companies to publicly report large price hikes. “We need to do everything we can to crack down on the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs,” said Senator Stabenow. “Too many Michigan families and seniors are burdened by high costs that make it harder to get the care they need and pay their bills.” The Empowering Medicare Seniors to Negotiate Drug Prices Act, which was introduced by Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and cosponsored by Senator Stabenow, would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to directly negotiate with drug companies for price discounts for the Medicare Prescription Drug Program. This bill eliminates the “non-interference” clause that expressly bans Medicare from negotiating the best possible prices. By harnessing the bargaining power of nearly 41 million seniors, Medicare could negotiate bigger discounts than pharmaceutical companies. The SPIKE Act, which was introduced by Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) and cosponsored by Senator Stabenow, would require drug manufacturers to publicly report increases in the price of their drugs beyond a certain threshold. One of these thresholds addresses modestly priced drugs whose prices have increased unreasonably, targeting actors such as Turing Pharmaceuticals, which increased the price of Daraprim by 5,000%. The other threshold addresses drug price increases that effect Medicare and Medicaid the most.
08.14.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Eaton Rapids Monday, August 14, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Eaton Rapids as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Auntie’s Deli, Pettit Hardware and Mark’s Place. Stabenow’s tour has included over 100 stops in communities across the state including Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Eaton Rapids who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses that are getting started or planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. “So glad Senator Stabenow came to visit our small town,” said Kelly Lehto, Owner of Auntie’s Deli. “It truly means a lot that she could come to our store and meet with our customers.” “It was a pleasure to visit with Senator Stabenow and show her my family hardware store,” said Mari Lin Pettit, Owner of Pettit Hardware. “It is a comfort to know that someone with her experience and history with the state of Michigan is watching out for us and especially the Great Lakes.”
08.11.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Wayne and Dundee Friday, August 11, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Wayne and Dundee as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Icon Computer and Karma Coffee Shop in Wayne before traveling to Dundee to visit Swan Creek Candle, Cella-Mar Studio of Hair Design and Dave Arthur Architect. Stabenow’s tour has included over 100 stops in communities across the state including Coldwater, Kalamazoo, Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Wayne and Dundee who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses that are getting started or planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. “It was honor to have Senator Debbie Stabenow visit the City of Wayne. While on her visit she stopped at my store ICON Computer Solutions,” said Brian Ewanciw, CEO of ICON Computer Solutions. “We chatted about the need for more small business loans and an increase in grant money for public safety. Refreshing to see a Senator care so much about small business.” “We appreciate all of Senator Stabenow’s hard work and willingness to visit our business,” said Jennifer and David Romero, Owners of Karma Coffee Shop & Kitchen. “Not many small businesses have this opportunity, so it was such an honor to showcase our store and we truly enjoyed our time with her.” “As a two time small business owner, I value people who support small business,” said Denny Polito, Chairman of the Dundee Downtown Development Authority. “I am very happy to see Senator Stabenow’s standing up for small businesses.”
08.10.2017	Stabenow, Collins, Capito, Markey Announce TRICARE Will Cover New Care Plans for Families of Alzheimer’s Patients Thursday, August 10, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Susan Collins (R-ME), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), and Ed Markey (D-MA) today announced that the Department of Defense would cover new care plans to support Alzheimer’s patients covered through TRICARE and their families. More than five million Americans are living with Alzheimer’s, and more than 15 million people serve as their caregivers. The Senators had strongly urged the Department of Defense to make sure that anyone who receives TRICARE could also have access to these new care plans. “This announcement is important to those living with Alzheimer's disease and the loved ones who help care for them every day,” said Senator Stabenow. “My HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act called for new care plans for Alzheimer’s patients and their families. I’m pleased that the Department of Defense has responded to our request to cover these vital services for service members, veterans, and their families.” “Alzheimer’s is a devastating disease that takes a tremendous personal and economic toll on millions of individuals as well as their family caregivers,” said Senator Collins. “As the Co-Chair of the Senate Alzheimer’s Task Force, I know the importance of ensuring that newly-diagnosed individuals and their families obtain essential support through care planning, which was one of the provisions of our HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act. I am delighted that the Department of Defense has recognized the importance of this benefit and will begin covering these services. I will continue to work to help Alzheimer’s patients and their caregivers receive the support they need.” “Millions of individuals across the country are affected by Alzheimer’s, including many who have bravely served our country,” Senator Capito said. “This announcement is great news for our servicemen and women, as well as their families, and I’m very proud of the role my colleagues and I played in encouraging the department’s decision.” “Our veterans, servicemembers, and their families have given so much to our nation, it’s only right that we fully support them when faced with the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s,” said Senator Markey. “I commend the Department of Defense for recognizing the toll this disease takes on patients accessing TRICARE, and I thank my colleagues for their bipartisan work on securing this agreement to provide coverage.” Senators Stabenow, Collins, Capito, and Markey authored the Health Outcomes Planning and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act, which requires Medicare to pay for an individual care plan for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients. This new benefit would encourage doctors to give a clear diagnosis to patients with Alzheimer’s disease, including information about treatment options and what medical and community services are available. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid effectively implemented the HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act starting on January 1, 2017. TRICARE serves 9.5 million active duty service members, National Guard and Reserve members, retirees, family members, and survivors. With today’s announcement, anyone on TRICARE or Medicare now has access to this new benefit.
08.08.2017	Sen. Stabenow Highlights Great Lakes Restoration Success Stories Across Michigan, Importance of Federal Funding Tuesday, August 08, 2017 This month, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow is highlighting Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) success stories throughout Michigan and the importance of federal funding to protect our lakes and waterways. Stabenow today joined Bill Rose, the President and CEO of the Kalamazoo Nature Center, Jamie McCarthy, the Watershed Coordinator for the Kalamazoo River Watershed Council, and Tim Suprise, the founder and CEO of Arcadia Ales, to highlight the completion of the Kalamazoo Fen Restoration. Stabenow authored the GLRI in 2010 and is leading the bipartisan effort to stop proposals to eliminate funding for the Initiative next year. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative provided $196,000 in federal funding to the Kalamazoo Nature Center to restore wetlands and prevent erosion and runoff into the Kalamazoo River. The GLRI funding has led to increased economic activity in the area, giving more people the opportunity to enjoy paddle boarding, kayaking, canoeing, and boating on the river. Arcadia Ales, a locally owned brewery, opened a new location on the Kalamazoo River, allowing patrons to take advantage of the riverfront. “One in five Michigan jobs are tied to water. It is more important than ever to continue investing in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This successful project is an excellent example of how Great Lakes funding is helping more Michigan families and visitors enjoy boating, kayaking, and canoeing.” "The Kalamazoo Nature Center, with its partners, are proud to be part of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative,” said Bill Rose, President and CEO of the Kalamazoo Nature Center. “With GLRI funding, we are able to protect and restore wetlands of the Great Lakes which benefit all of us through maintaining good water quality, reducing impacts from flooding, controlling invasive species and enhancing habitat for many rare plants and animals. These benefits spill over to grow our economy by increasing tourism and recreation." “Work to clean up contaminated sediments from the Kalamazoo River and restore fish and wildlife habitat has been on-going for more than two decades,” said Jamie McCarthy, Watershed Coordinator for the Kalamazoo River Watershed Council. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative has been a powerful accelerator for that work. We have seen a tremendous amount of progress in the last five years, and an equally impressive amount of private investment and development in Kalamazoo as the river is cleaned up. The GLRI has been able to provide funding for important studies and other resources that helped bring projects to fruition that might have otherwise languished.” "A clean and sustainable system for maintaining a healthy fresh water supply is critical not only for economic vitality in the Great Lakes, but for a the continued wellness of our communities,” said Tim Suprise, founder and CEO of Arcadia Ales. According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. GLRI is critical to cleaning up our Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways for swimming, boating, and fishing; fighting invasive species like Asian carp, and protecting our Michigan way of life. Michigan projects have received more than $400 million in funding from the GLRI since its establishment. Michigan has an estimated 2,850 miles of coastal water trails as well as an estimated 1,280 miles of inland water trails. Our canoe and kayak industry annually contributes $140 million to our state’s economy. Kalamazoo Fen Restoration Background Fens are a special type of wetland that filter and slow water before it enters the Kalamazoo River, helping keep an important Lake Michigan tributary healthy. Over the past few years, the fens that line the Kalamazoo River have largely been destroyed by invasive species. The Kalamazoo Nature Center used the funding it received from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to remove invasive plants, which has allowed native plants to return to the wetlands on their own.
08.08.2017	Stabenow Statement on Release of Brandon Road Study Tuesday, August 08, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement after the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers released the Brandon Road Study, a draft plan for keeping Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes: “After news that a live silver carp was found only nine miles from Lake Michigan, the Administration has finally released this critical study. It is encouraging that the Army Corps is considering concrete actions to stop the carp from entering our Great Lakes. Its urgent that we move as quickly as possible to get permanent solutions in place.
08.07.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces More Than $3.5 Million to Expand Double Up Food Bucks throughout Michigan Monday, August 07, 2017 Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry, today announced more than $3.5 million in new federal funding to expand the successful Double Up Food Bucks program in Michigan. The funds come from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive grant program, which Stabenow authored in the 2014 Farm Bill. The grant will be matched by private funding, totaling to $7 million in new investments. “The Double Up Food Bucks initiative has been a success for both farmers and families,” said Stabenow. “In the 2014 Farm Bill, I fought to include innovative opportunities like this to improve access to healthy, local food in communities and create new ways for Michigan farmers to sell their products locally.” Modeled after the Michigan’s successful Double Up Food Bucks program – a project created by Fair Food Network – Stabenow fought to include $100 million in the 2014 Farm Bill to establish the innovative Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive grant program to improve access to locally grown fruits and vegetables at farmers markets and grocery stores. Double Up Food Bucks makes it easier for low-income families in Michigan to eat healthy by doubling the value of food assistance dollars spent on fresh, regionally grown produce. This has helped families stretch their food budget while supporting Michigan farmers and rural communities. “Support for produce incentives has energized the field with direct benefits for low-income families and American farmers,” said Dr. Oran Hesterman, President and CEO of Fair Food Network. “Senator Stabenow has been a steadfast champion of this work, which today is garnering support from across the political spectrum. New funding is helping to expand and continue innovating the Double Up Food Bucks produce incentive programs in Michigan, Colorado, and Western New York.” Fair Food Network will utilize the new funds to expand the Double Up Food Bucks program to more farmers market and grocery stores throughout Michigan. Additionally, funding will be used to expand new technology to make purchases easier for families and farmers, and expand year-round rather than seasonal programming at farmers markets and groceries.
08.04.2017	Senator Stabenow Returns Blue Slip for Nomination of Justice Joan Larsen to Serve on Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals Friday, August 04, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that she has returned the blue slip for Justice Joan Larsen’s nomination to serve on the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. “Federal judgeships are lifetime appointments,” said Senator Stabenow. “As part of my constitutional duty, I have consulted with Michigan’s legal community, reviewed Justice Larson’s background and qualifications and most recently, personally met with her. My meeting with Justice Larson was productive. I have returned the Senate’s procedural “blue slip” which will allow the nomination process to move forward with the Senate Judiciary Committee. I look forward to hearing more from Justice Larsen during her confirmation hearing in the Judiciary Committee and will continue to evaluate her nomination.” It is part of the "blue slip" process -- a tradition of the Senate -- that home state Senators consent with moving forward before the Senate Judiciary Committee conducts a hearing and votes on the nominee. Nominations approved by the Committee are then considered by the full Senate. President Trump nominated Justice Joan Larsen to serve on the United States State Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. She currently serves as a Justice on the Michigan Supreme Court.
08.04.2017	Senator Stabenow Highlights Great Lakes Restoration Success Stories Across Michigan, Importance of Federal Funding Friday, August 04, 2017 This month, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow is highlighting Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) success stories throughout Michigan and the importance of federal funding to protect our lakes and waterways. Stabenow today joined the Alliance of Rouge Communities, the City of Wayne, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) on the Rouge River to see the completed Wayne Road Dam Removal and Habitat Improvement Project. Stabenow authored the GLRI in 2010 and is leading the bipartisan effort to stop proposals to eliminate funding for the Initiative next year. The Wayne Road Dam Removal and Habitat Improvement Project was completed in 2013 and received over $1 million in GLRI funding through NOAA. The project reconnected approximately 121 miles of river and tributaries to the Great Lakes system for the first time in over a century. The dam removal opened up new opportunities for canoeing and kayaking and restored passage for a variety of fish including trout, smallmouth bass, northern pike, and walleye. “One in five Michigan jobs are tied to water. It is more important than ever to continue investing in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This successful project is an excellent example of how Great Lakes funding is helping more Michigan families and visitors enjoy fishing, kayaking, and canoeing in the Rouge River.” “The Alliance for Rouge Communities and its 41 members truly appreciate the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and Senator Stabenow’s continued support. GLRI funding provided through EPA and NOAA allowed us to restore the habitat in six areas within the Rouge River,” said John O’Meara, Principal Engineer, Alliance of Rouge Communities. “The Wayne Road Dam Removal and Habitat Improvement project is an excellent example of river restoration when federal, state, and local communities work together. ARC communities have worked together for over 20 years to restore the Rouge River. Senator Stabenow, EPA, NOAA, and the GLRI allow us to build upon our successes and improve the quality of life throughout Southeast Michigan.” “Habitat restoration creates a big return on investment,” said Julie Sims, Great Lakes Regional Coordinator, NOAA Restoration Center. “It’s more than just better fishing—restoration projects can improve local property values, aid in flood control, improve access for recreation and add jobs to the economy.” According to the University Research Corridor, more than 700,000 Michigan jobs, one in five in the state, are tied to water. GLRI is critical to cleaning up our Great Lakes, beaches, and waterways for swimming, boating, and fishing; fighting invasive species like Asian carp, and protecting our Michigan way of life. Michigan projects have received more than $400 million in funding from the GLRI since its establishment. Michigan has an estimated 2,850 miles of coastal water trails as well as an estimated 1,280 miles of inland water trails. Our canoe and kayak industry annually contributes $140 million to our state’s economy. Wayne Road Dam Project Background The Wayne Road Dam was built in the early 1900s along the Lower Branch of the Rouge River in the City of Wayne to provide water for firefighting. The 3-foot-high Wayne Road Dam no longer served a public purpose and acted as a barrier to fish and promoted the accumulation of sediment and debris behind the dam. Removal of the Wayne Road Dam was a priority project for the Rouge River Advisory Council, which is committed to restoring the Rouge River. The Rouge River is one of 14 “Areas of Concern” in Michigan that were identified in the 1980s by the United States and Canadian governments as having severe, long-term environmental problems. Since the establishment of the GLRI, two Areas of Concern in Michigan have been given a clean bill of health or “de-listed” – Deer Lake and White Lake. The design was completed under a $57,500 Wayne County Rouge Program Office grant and construction and monitoring of the project was completed under GLRI funding through a NOAA grant of $1,033,536. The project also restored the river’s natural channel and river banks. Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program In addition to leading the effort in the Senate on fully funding the GLRI, Senator Stabenow is also championing legislation to protect and restore our recreational fisheries. In June, she introduced the Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program Act (S. 1332) to improve Great Lakes fisheries and encourage habitat restoration by repairing and replacing aging dams, culverts, and roads. There are thousands of these structures across the Great Lakes Basin that currently inhibit the movement of fish populations. Great Lakes states and tribal governments will be able to recommend grant projects to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to expand fish access to waterways and work to prevent the spread of invasive species when addressing aging infrastructure.
08.03.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces Medicare at 55 Act Thursday, August 03, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced the Medicare at 55 Act, which provides an option for people between the ages of 55 and 64 to buy into Medicare. There are 1.4 million people in Michigan between the ages of 55 and 64, and many of them are burdened by high insurance premiums, unaffordable deductibles and limited options. “People between the ages of 55 and 64 often have more health problems and face higher health care costs but aren’t yet eligible for Medicare," said Senator Stabenow. "If you live in Michigan, are 58 years old, and are having a hard time finding coverage that works for you, this bill will let you buy into Medicare before you turn 65. Our legislation is one way we can work together on a bipartisan basis to lower health care and prescription drug costs." People in the 55-64 age group face unique health challenges and especially high health care costs. The average person in this age group pays more than $1,200 in annual out-of-pocket costs and is at a greater risk of suffering from chronic conditions such as diabetes or arthritis and medical emergencies such as heart attack and stroke. Under the Medicare at 55 Act, an individual between the ages of 55 and 64 who buys into Medicare would receive the same benefits and protections as an individual enrolled under Medicare parts A, B, and D. U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jack Reed (D-RI), and Al Franken (D-MN) co-sponsored the legislation.
08.03.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $2.4 Million for Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport Thursday, August 03, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that Kalamazoo County will receive $2,458,304 to rehabilitate runways at Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. “This investment will make traveling to and from Southwest Michigan safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “This airport provides vital opportunities for businesses and residents in West Michigan by boosting tourism and economic development in the region,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. “This funding will support the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek Airport in its efforts to improve runways and continue providing safe and reliable air travel for residents and visitors.” The Runway Incursion Management program helps airports reduce the risk of runway incursions. Incursions occur when an aircraft, vehicle, or person enters the protected area of an airport designated for aircraft landings and take offs. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/. ###
08.03.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce an Additional $2.5 Million for Ford Airport Thursday, August 03, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that Ford Airport in Iron Mountain/Kingsford will receive an additional $2,597,745 grant from the Department of Transportation to complete the rehabilitation of the runway and the reconstruction of its lighting. Last week, Stabenow and Peters announced that Ford Airport would receive a $2,246,044 grant to address these improvements. In total, the airport will receive $4,843,789 in funding. “This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel also promotes tourism and helps encourage businesses to invest in the UP and create jobs.” “Safe and reliable air travel is a critical component of economic growth in the Upper Peninsula,” said Senator Peters. “This support will help the airport complete important infrastructure updates to ensure they can continue connecting UP residents with economic opportunities across the country and around the world.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant Program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants. ###
08.02.2017	Stabenow, Peters Commend Federal Action on Flood Assistance for Michigan Families Wednesday, August 02, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today commended the approval of a major disaster declaration for the State of Michigan providing assistance to families following severe flooding that affected Bay, Gladwin, Isabella, and Midland Counties. The four counties have declared states of emergency, and the damage from the flooding is estimated to be over $100 million. “Michigan families are resilient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today’s declaration will provide critical federal support to help families whose homes were damaged get back on their feet.” “This is an important step to set the affected counties on a path to recovery,” said Senator Peters. “This much-needed assistance will help ensure that mid-Michigan families who have been hurt by the recent flooding will be able to able to rebuild.” Earlier this month, Senators Stabenow and Peters and a bipartisan group of Michigan House members urged President Trump to approve Governor Snyder’s request for a disaster declaration. This request came after federal, state, and local officials conducted a Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment in the counties affected and determined that federal assistance was needed. Senators Stabenow and Peters have also urged Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to expedite the process for assessing crop loss and damage for Michigan farmers impacted by the flood. Residents and businesses can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by visiting www.DisasterAssistance.gov or calling 1-800-621-3362. The number will be in operation from 7:00am to 9:00pm seven days a week until further notice.
08.01.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Coldwater and Kalamazoo Tuesday, August 01, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Coldwater and Kalamazoo as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Jeannie’s Diner, Lilah’s Bridal, and Tilted Tulip Florist in Coldwater before traveling to Kalamazoo to visit Bell’s Brewery. Stabenow’s tour has included over 100 stops in communities across the state including Traverse City, Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Coldwater and Kalamazoo who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses that are getting started or planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. “As a small brewery owner I am grateful to Sen. Stabenow for her support of our industry,” said Larry Bell, Owner of Bell’s Brewery. “As a co-sponsor of The Craft Beer Modernization Act, and as a strong voice for barley issues on the Senate Agriculture Committee, she has shown an understanding of the issues that affect my business.” ###
08.01.2017	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Over $640,000 in Support of Southeastern Michigan Fire Departments Tuesday, August 01, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded the announcement that two fire departments in Southeastern Michigan will receive $643,105 in funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The Brandon Fire Department will receive $11,286, which will fund an air unit to support their self-contained breathing apparatus. The St. Clair Shores Fire Department will receive $631,819, which will be used to purchase a new hybrid ladder/pumper fire truck. “Our firefighters in Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new vehicles and resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Communities in Southeastern Michigan rely on firefighters and first responders to safeguard families and business when emergency strikes,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will ensure that Brandon Fire Department and St. Clair Shores Fire Department will have the right equipment to protect themselves and public during emergencies.” “This grant will provide our department with the funds to purchase a vital new air unit used when firefighters are trapped and need additional air while awaiting help from rescue workers,” Chief David Kwapis, Brandon Fire Department. “Thank you to Senators Peters and Stabenow for supporting this critical funding program that helps our department purchase equipment our firefighters and first responders use to safely do their jobs.” “We are very happy that the hard working people of St. Clair Shores are being rewarded for the ongoing support of their fire department,” Ryan Koepp, Interim Fire Chief, St. Clair Shores Fire Department. “We understand that this award comes with a great amount of responsibility, and we are continually committed to good stewardship of the people’s money. We thank leaders like Senators Peters and Stabenow for their support of this very important funding program.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
08.01.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Nomination of Former Representative Pete Hoekstra to be U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands Tuesday, August 01, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced their support for former Representative Pete Hoekstra to be United States Ambassador to the Netherlands. “Former Michigan Senator Arthur Vandenberg famously said: ‘Politics stop at the water’s edge,’” said Senator Stabenow. “While Pete and I have often been on opposite sides of issues, I know he is well suited to serve our country in this new role as Ambassador. I look forward to supporting his nomination and introducing him to my colleagues in the Senate throughout the confirmation process.” “I was proud to serve with Pete in the House of Representatives, and this nomination is a great opportunity for Pete to continue his service on foreign policy issues,” said Senator Peters. “I know that Michiganders will take pride in seeing Pete serve as our nation’s Ambassador to the Netherlands, and I look forward to supporting his nomination.” President Trump nominated Hoekstra, who was born in the Netherlands, to be the next U.S. Ambassador on July 24, 2017. His nomination will be considered by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
08.01.2017	Peters and Stabenow Applaud $14.4 Million for Flint Lead Registry Tuesday, August 01, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded Michigan State University (MSU) with $14.4 million over four years to establish a Flint Lead Registry to monitor the health outcomes of children and adults exposed to lead and provide long-term treatment to mitigate the effects of lead exposure. This funding was included in the Flint agreement that Senators Peters and Stabenow and Congressman Kildee passed to provide long-awaited federal assistance for Flint and other communities affected by lead. “Lead exposure can have serious and long-term consequences for Flint families, but with wrap-around health and community support services, we can mitigate these negative outcomes and ensure the City of Flint comes back even stronger than before,” said Senator Peters. “I was proud to help pass these funds through Congress last year, and I’m pleased the City of Flint and MSU will be able to continue their efforts to better understand the impact of lead exposure and help ensure a brighter future for Flint families.” “This important funding that we secured in last year’s Flint agreement will help health providers monitor the health of children and adults who were exposed to lead in Flint,” said Senator Stabenow. “The lead registry Michigan State University will create with this money represents our long term commitment to the residents of Flint, who have endured so much during the water crisis.” MSU will use the funding in partnership with the City of Flint leadership and other community organizations and stakeholders to address health concerns related to lead exposures, recruit and collect lead exposure information, monitor health outcomes among registrants, and expand efforts to reduce and eliminate lead in the community. The registry will be part of the Pediatric Public Health Initiative, formed jointly by MSU and Hurley Children’s Hospital, to comprehensively address Flint’s lead exposure. The registry will also track future significant lead exposure situations across the country and serve as national center of excellence for mitigating the impacts of lead exposure. The Flint agreement authored by Peters, Stabenow and Congressman Dan Kildee was signed into law in 2016. This agreement provided $30 million to two different federal programs that fund efforts to address the short and long-term effects of lead poisoning, particularly to pregnant women and new mothers. This funding also provides resources to educate the public on the dangers of lead exposure and helps states identify and address environmental health and public safety issues associated with lead. The Flint agreement also provided $100 million in funding to help fix Flint’s drinking water infrastructure.
07.28.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $140,000 in Support of Inland Township Fire Department Friday, July 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Inland Township Fire Department will receive $147,740 in funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to purchase 10 SCBA Air packs as well as a clean air compressor to provide air to first responders during a fire. “Our firefighters in Inland Township put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Firefighters and first responders of Inland Township play a critical role in keeping their communities safe during emergencies,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will provide Inland Township Fire Department with critical breathing devices that will allow them to safely do their jobs and protect our families, homes and local business.” “The grant will provide our department the with ability to purchase 10 SCBA Air packs as well as a clean air compressor and tools to facilitate extrication when needed, said Chief Dave Cutway, Inland Township Fire Department. “This equipment will allow Inland Township Fire Department to better serve our community and keep residents safe.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
07.28.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $66,000 in Support for Freeport Area Volunteer Fire Department Friday, July 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Freeport Area Volunteer Fire Department will receive $66,999 in funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program for 17 new headsets and a new VHF800 MHz radio. “Our volunteer firefighters in Freeport put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “It’s essential that firefighters in Freeport have the resources they need to keep their communities safe and secure,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased to announce this funding that will ensure the Freeport Area Volunteer Fire Department has up-to-date communications equipment to help firefighters stay safe and coordinate with other first responders in emergency situations.” “We are thrilled to have been awarded the AFG Grant for 2017,” said Chief Jim Yarger, Freeport Area Volunteer Fire Department. “This grant will enable us to purchase communications equipment for our vehicles and handhelds that span both VHF and the 800mghz systems and continue communications with our neighboring counties as they migrate to the State 800 radio system. We will be the first department in Barry County with this capability.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
07.28.2017	Ahead of White House Medal of Honor Ceremony, Stabenow, Peters, Upton Congratulate Vietnam Veteran James McCloughan on Receiving Our Nation’s Highest Military Honor Lawmakers passed legislation last year to make then-Private First Class McCloughan eligible for the Medal of Honor Friday, July 28, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ahead of Monday’s Medal of Honor Ceremony at the White House, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) congratulated Vietnam Veteran James McCloughan for receiving our nation’s highest military honor. Then-Private First Class McCloughan, a native and current resident of South Haven, served as a medic and saved the lives of 10 members of his platoon who were wounded during the Battle of Nui Yon Hill on May 13-15, 1969. This follows legislation passed by Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Upton to make then-Private First Class McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor. Their legislation passed the Senate as part of the National Defense Authorization Act and was signed into law by President Obama in December of 2016. President Trump announced he would award the Medal of Honor to McCloughan on July 31, 2017. “Specialist James McCloughan served our country honorably and courageously, saving the lives of 10 members of his platoon in Vietnam,” said Senator Stabenow. “We are proud to have played a part in ensuring this American hero finally receives the recognition he deserves.” “Then-Private First Class McCloughan put his life on the line to rescue his fellow servicemembers, and later went on to inspire future generations of leaders as an educator in Michigan,” said Senator Peters, a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “We as a nation are eternally grateful for his service, his valor and his courage. With today’s Medal of Honor ceremony, James McCloughan has finally received the recognition he earned for his service to our country." “I am deeply humbled and honored to be joining American hero James McCloughan, the president, and other distinguished guests at the Medal of Honor ceremony Monday at the White House,” said Congressman Upton. “Those who give their all in service of their country and fellow man deserve just praise and due credit. For decades, that never came for James McCloughan. On Monday he will finally receive the public gratitude and recognition he duly earned all those years ago on the battlefield when he went above-and-beyond to risk his life for his country.” Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The legislation passed by Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Upton waived the five-year requirement and made it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to McCloughan. Then-Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated, receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, The National Defense Medal, The Good Conduct Medal, The Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, The Vietnam Campaign Medal, The Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge. McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5).
07.28.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $2 Million for Ford Airport Friday, July 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Ford Airport in Kingsford will receive a $2,246,044 grant from the Department of Transportation to support infrastructure projects including rehabilitation of the runway and the reconstruction of its lighting. “This funding will make traveling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create more jobs.” “Ford Airport provides a critical connection for residents of the Upper Peninsula, boosting tourism and bolstering economic development in the region,” said Senator Peters. “This federal funding will enable the airport to invest in important runway and lighting improvements that will help support continued safe and reliable transportation.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant Program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants. ###
07.28.2017	Following Peters & Stabenow Efforts, Trump Administration Extends Public Comment Period on Marine Sanctuary and Monument Expansions Friday, July 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today applauded a decision by the U.S. Department of Commerce to extend the public comment period on an executive order that could lead to the rollback or elimination of 11 marine sanctuaries and monuments created or expanded over the past decade, including the expansion of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary in Alpena. The public comment period, which was scheduled to close on Wednesday, July 26th, has been extended to Monday, August 14th. “Strong public support and engagement from Northern Michigan residents was key to Thunder Bay’s designation and expansion, and today the sanctuary is a critical tourism destination and an integral part of Michigan’s cultural landscape,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard. “We called for an extended public comment period because the public needs sufficient time to provide input and make sure their comments are registered. This extension provides a brief but important opportunity for Michigan residents to highlight the role Thunder Bay plays as an economic lifeline to coastal communities in Michigan.” “The Thunder Bay Marine Sanctuary is critical to Michigan’s economy and is part of our rich maritime heritage,” said Senator Stabenow. “This extension is an opportunity for Michigan residents to continue voicing their strong opposition to putting the Sanctuary at risk.” Peters and Stabenow have expressed concern over the status of Thunder Bay’s expansion and urged U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to extend the public comment period on Executive Order 13795, which included language to instruct the Department of Commerce to conduct a review of all designations and expansions of National Marine Sanctuaries and Marine National Monuments since April 28, 2007. Eleven monuments and sanctuaries were designated or expanded in the past decade including the Thunder Bay Marine Sanctuary in Michigan, Papah?naumoku?kea Marine National Monument in Hawaii, Rose Atoll Marine National Monument in American Samoa, and the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary in California. The Department of Commerce’s notice to extend the comment period can be found by clicking here. Complete instructions for submitting comments can be found in the Federal Register. Comments must be submitted by the August 14th deadline to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) electronically through the Federal eRulemaking Portal or by mail to the following address: E.O. 13795 Review, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Silver Spring Metro Campus Building 4 (SSMC4), Eleventh Floor, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. ###
07.28.2017	Stabenow Statement on Senate Vote on Health Care Friday, July 28, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement after the Republican attempts to repeal health care failed in the Senate: “Over the past few months, so many people in Michigan and across the country shared their stories, made phone calls, and spoke out against the Republican health care bill. Because of these actions, the Republican attempts to take away health care from millions of Americans failed tonight. It's now important that we work on a bipartisan basis to find solutions that lower health care costs and improve care.”
07.27.2017	Bipartisan Michigan Delegation Members Urge President Trump to Issue Federal Disaster Declaration Following Severe Flash Flooding in Four Counties Thursday, July 27, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Representatives John Moolenaar (R-MI), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Fred Upton (R-MI), John Conyers (D-MI), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Mike Bishop (R-MI), Jack Bergman (R-MI), Paul Mitchell (R-MI), Tim Walberg (R-MI), Dave Trott (R-MI), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Debbie Dingell (D-MI) today urged President Trump to approve Governor Snyder’s request for a major disaster declaration following severe flash flooding that affected Bay, Gladwin, Isabella, and Midland counties. The four counties declared states of emergency, and the damage from the flooding is estimated to be over $100 million. “The people of the State of Michigan are resilient, and we commend the work of federal, state, and local officials to promptly assess the damage resulted by the flooding and determine the paths for recovery,” wrote the lawmakers. “We urge you to issue a federal major disaster declaration and to provide the requested assistance so the residents and business owners of these communities can begin to rebuild from this emergency. Thank you for your consideration of our request.” The text of the letter may be found below, and a PDF is attached. July 27, 2017 The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing in support of Governor Rick Snyder’s request on July 21, 2017 for a major disaster declaration for the State of Michigan as a result of severe flash flooding that affected Bay, Gladwin, Isabella, and Midland counties. This request comes after federal, state, and local officials conducted a Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment in the counties affected and determined that federal assistance was needed. In late June, heavy rainfall in mid-Michigan resulted in some of the worst flooding the State has seen in recent years. This flooding has had devastating impacts on homes, businesses, agricultural crops, and public infrastructure. Notably, thousands of homes and businesses were flooded, which caused significant damage to foundational structures and electrical and mechanical systems. Unfortunately, many residents were displaced from their homes. Widespread road closures were also reported across the counties due to washed out thoroughfares and other public infrastructure damage. The four counties affected declared states of emergency and began quickly assessing the damage, which is estimated to be over $100 million. Federal, state, and local officials working on the ground conducted assessments from July 6-9, and determined the level of damage required federal assistance. As described in the Governor’s request, the recovery efforts will extend beyond the capacity of the state and local governments. The Governor is requesting Individual Assistance from the federal government in an effort to support eligible residents with home repairs and uninsured property losses and assistance to help businesses recover from this disaster. Additionally, the Governor has requested Hazard Mitigation Assistance statewide to prevent long-term risk to life and property from natural disasters in the future. The people of the State of Michigan are resilient, and we commend the work of federal, state, and local officials to promptly assess the damage resulted by the flooding and determine the paths for recovery. We urge you to issue a federal major disaster declaration and to provide the requested assistance so the residents and business owners of these communities can begin to rebuild from this emergency. Thank you for your consideration of our request.
07.26.2017	Stabenow, Peters, Bergman, Kildee Lead Bipartisan Push to Protect Thunder Bay Sanctuary The lawmakers warn Trump Administration against shrinking sanctuary and circumventing ban on drilling in Great Lakes Wednesday, July 26, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Representatives Jack Bergman (R-MI) and Dan Kildee (D-MI) today led a bipartisan call on the Trump Administration to maintain the existing boundaries of the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and warned against any attempt by the Administration to circumvent the ban on Great Lakes oil and gas drilling. The Trump Administration recently ordered a review of National Marine Sanctuaries and National Marine Monuments, such as the Thunder Bay Sanctuary, that have been designated or expanded since 2007. The Thunder Bay Sanctuary is critical to tourism, the regional economy, and Michigan’s maritime heritage and has been protected from offshore oil and gas drilling since Stabenow authored a federal ban in 2005. “We strongly urge you to maintain the expanded boundaries of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary,” wrote the lawmakers. “The decision to expand the Sanctuary in 2014 came after an extensive process that ensured thorough and transparent input from our constituents and all stakeholders. Michigan depends on its marine sanctuary to support the rural and coastal communities of northeast Michigan and preserve this unique area and cultural artifacts for future generations.” The full text of the letter is below and a PDF is attached. Representatives Fred Upton (R-MI), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), and David Trott (R-MI) also signed the letter. July 26, 2017 The Honorable Wilbur Ross Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Secretary Ross, We write to express our strong opposition to reducing the boundaries of the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary as part of the Commerce Department’s review of National Marine Sanctuaries and Marine National Monuments designated or expanded since April 28, 2007 in accordance with Executive Order 13795. The expansion of this sanctuary in Lake Huron in 2014, which was the result of a rigorous approval process with extensive public input, is critical to Michigan’s economy and heritage. The Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary has helped revitalize local economies in our state. The tourism and recreational opportunities supported by the Sanctuary have generated over 1,700 jobs, $100 million in sales, and $39.1 million in personal income to residents, according to a 2005 study. In 2008, the mayor of Alpena, Carol Shafto, testified before the United States House of Representatives that “Alpena, a very rural area 100 miles from the nearest freeway, is today a different place, a better place, since NOAA designated the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary…It is truly difficult to imagine Alpena not being part of a system that protects some of the most spectacular resources in the country.” Modifying the expanded boundaries of the Thunder Bay Sanctuary will only reduce the area benefiting from the amazing resources and history that draw thousands of visitors to the region every year. In addition to the economic benefits, Thunder Bay serves as an educational and historical underwater park that preserves 110 known shipwrecks and documents over 200 years of maritime history. The cold, clear freshwater preserves shipwrecks dating back to the nineteenth century. This trove of artifacts formed the basis for developing world-class historical and archaeological research programs focused around the Thunder Bay Sanctuary. Stakeholder engagement and public feedback were integral to the process that resulted in the expansion of Thunder Bay. Local communities, not outside entities, initiate proposed expansions. Only after several local government and non-governmental organizations expressed interest in expansion did a Sanctuary Advisory Council working group recommend increasing the boundaries of Thunder Bay to include more historic shipwrecks and other maritime heritage sites. Local communities, state and federal agencies, and tribes all had multiple opportunities to make their voices heard throughout the process from the initial review to formal approval. Numerous public meetings and public comment periods were held during Thunder Bay’s seven-year expansion process, which clearly demonstrates the ample effort made to consult with federal, state, and tribal groups and other stakeholders prior to expansion as required in the Federal Register Notice. We would also highlight that Section 4(b)(i)(C) of the Federal Register Notice, which stipulates that the potential for oil and mineral production should be considered when reviewing marine sanctuaries, is not relevant to Thunder Bay. First, Congress enacted legislation in 2005 that permanently prohibits the issuance of any federal or state permits for new directional, slant, or offshore drilling in or under the Great Lakes. Second, Michigan state law has banned oil and gas drilling in the Great Lakes since 2002. Finally, Thunder Bay is not on the Outer Continental Shelf, raising additional concerns about its inclusion in the review. We strongly urge you to maintain the expanded boundaries of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary. The decision to expand the Sanctuary in 2014 came after an extensive process that ensured thorough and transparent input from our constituents and all stakeholders. Michigan depends on its marine sanctuary to support the rural and coastal communities of northeast Michigan and preserve this unique area and cultural artifacts for future generations.
07.26.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $6 Million for Cherry Capital Airport Wednesday, July 26, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that Cherry Capital Airport in Traverse City will receive a $6,130,114 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support infrastructure projects including the extension, construction, and rehabilitation of multiple runways. “Cherry Capital Airport connects the rest of the world to the beautiful sights and attractions of Northern Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased to announce this funding which will help the airport update and improve their runways so they can continue to offer quality service to visitors and residents of Northern Michigan.” “Traverse City is a wonderful area for Michigan families to live and work,” said Senator Stabenow. “This investment will make traveling to and from the area more efficient which will help local businesses grow and create jobs.” “Cherry Capital Airport would like to thank Senators Peters and Stabenow for their support for Northern Michigan aviation,” said Kevin Klein, Cherry Capital Airport Director. “This grant will allow us to make important upgrades to our runway pavement, runway lighting and existing navigational aids, all while creating construction jobs and contributing back to the community.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
07.25.2017	Stabenow Announces Bipartisan Bill to Improve Post-9/11 G.I. Bill for Veterans Tuesday, July 25, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced bipartisan legislation to improve veterans’ education benefits and enhance the post 9/11 G.I. Bill. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 (S.1598), named for the architect of the original G.I. Bill, eliminates an arbitrary 15-year period within which veterans are required to use the benefits they have earned. This bill would allow service-members who enlist after January 1, 2018 to use their benefits at any point after their military service. “After bravely serving our country, no veteran should have to worry about whether his or her G.I. benefits will expire,” said Senator Stabenow. “So many veterans in Michigan have used the G.I. Bill to continue their education and this bill ensures that even more will have that opportunity.” The bill expands G.I. Bill eligibility for certain active-duty reservists and Purple Heart recipients who have not completed the full term of their military contract. The bill also restores tuition costs and housing stipends for student veterans whose schools have closed – such as those impacted by the recent closure of for-profit schools like ITT Technical Institute. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 has broad bipartisan support in the Senate and was introduced by U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Jon Tester (D-Mont.), the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Senators Stabenow and Peters cosponsored the legislation, along with U.S. Sens. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., John Boozman, R-Ark., Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, Shelley Moore-Capito, R-W.V., Ben Cardin, D-Md., Susan Collins, R-Maine, John Cornyn, R-Texas, Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, Steve Daines, R-Mont., Joe Donnelly, D-Ind., Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill., Deb Fischer, R-Neb., Al Franken, D-Minn., Maggie Hassan, D-N.H., Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D., Dean Heller, R-Nev., Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., Tim Kaine, D-Va., Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., Jerry Moran, R-Kan., Bill Nelson, D-Fla., Pat Roberts, R-Kan., Mike Rounds, R-S.D., Marco Rubio, R-Fla., Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska, Thom Tillis, R-N.C., and Tom Udall, D-N.M.
07.24.2017	Senator Stabenow’s Visit to Traverse City Marks Over 100 Stops on Small Business Tour Monday, July 24, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners in Traverse City, marking over 100 stops on her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with owners and employees at Grand Traverse Pie Company, Cherry Republic, Golden Shoes, and The Workshop Brewing Company. Stabenow’s tour has included over 100 stops in communities across the state including Plymouth, Ann Arbor, East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “Over the past year, I have had the pleasure of meeting with so many hardworking and innovative business owners in Michigan who help keep our economy growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to talk with small business owners in Traverse City who have invested their own time, money and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” Recently, Senator Stabenow introduced the Growing Small Businesses Act to provide a 25 percent tax credit for small businesses planning to grow and expand. Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. “It was very gratifying that Senator Stabenow took the time to stop by and hear our story,” said Pete Kirkwood, Owner of The Workshop Brewing Company. "We talked about how The Workshop's commitment to craft intersects with her commitment to education, and how teaching trade skills can benefit small business – and the entire State's economy." “I appreciate Senator Stabenow and the entire Michigan delegation for their efforts with the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative because fresh water is so important to Michigan’s economy,” said Bill Golden, Owner of Golden Shoes. “Because her time is so precious, I appreciate the Senator stopping by and spending time talking to me and other businesses in downtown Traverse City.” “We had a great time speaking with Senator Stabenow while she was in Traverse City,” said Mike Busley Co-Owner of Traverse City Pie Company. “Whether it is infrastructure, education, or healthcare, it is important to have a Senator in Congress who understands and is working on solutions for the issues most important to me and my business.” ###
07.21.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for 20 West Michigan Fire Departments Friday, July 21, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced a $497,160 regional award for 20 fire departments in West Michigan to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters and first responders in West Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “West Michigan communities depend on firefighters to protect their families, businesses and homes,” said Senator Peters. “This critical funding will provide the region with upgraded equipment so firefighters can more effectively and efficiently do their jobs.” The regional award will provide funding for the following departments to purchase mechanical chest compression units to assist in CPR: The Albion Department of Public Safety will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Athens Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Battle Creek Fire Department will receive an $110,480 grant to purchase eight units. The Bedford Charter Township Fire Department will receive a $41,430 grant to purchase three units. The Burlington Township Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Emmett Charter Township Department of Public Safety will receive a $27,620 grant to purchase two units. The Fredonia Township Fire Department will receive a $27,620 grant to purchase two units. The Homer Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Leroy Township Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Marengo Township Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Marshall Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Marshall Township Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Newton Township Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Sheridan Township Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Springfield Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Tekonsha Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Climax Township Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Galesburg Charleston Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Springport/Clarence Township Fire Department will receive a $13,810 grant to purchase one unit. The Marshall Area Fire Fighters Ambulance Authority will receive an $82,860 grant to purchase six units. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
07.21.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $910,000 in Support of Delta Township Fire Department Friday, July 21, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Delta Township Fire Department will receive $916,115 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program to help hire six new full-time firefighters. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help Delta Township Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Fire departments protect families, homes and businesses and it’s essential that they receive sufficient support,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased to announce this funding that will help the Delta Township Fire Department hire six new firefighters and first responders so they have adequate staffing to safely and efficiently serve their community.” “The Delta Township Fire Department’s three stations cover a large region responding to over 7,000 calls last year,” said John Clark, Delta Township Fire Chief. “This award will allow us to hire six more firefighters, put two more firefighters on duty for each shift, and most importantly increases our capacity to respond to emergencies. We appreciate Senators Peters and Stabenow’s support of the SAFER grants program.” “We are excited to receive support to add six new paramedic/firefighters from the SAFER grant," said Kenneth R. Fletcher Delta Township Supervisor. “Our run volume has grown at a fast rate and we feel it is important that our service delivery remains top notch for our residents!” The SAFER Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The purpose of the program is to ensure that fire departments nationwide are fully staffed and equipped to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. ###
07.20.2017	Stabenow, Peters Request Meeting with President Trump to Discuss Ways to Promote American Jobs and Manufacturing Thursday, July 20, 2017 As the White House continues its “Made in America” activities this week, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today requested a meeting with President Donald Trump to discuss ways to promote American jobs and manufacturing and end outsourcing. The Senators reminded President Trump of his promise to put forward a comprehensive plan to end outsourcing and create jobs, and they called on him to work with Congress to ensure that American jobs are not shipped overseas. “Your administration declared this week to be “Made In America” week to showcase American manufacturers and American-made products,” wrote the lawmakers. “In Michigan, manufacturing is a key component of our economy. As Senators who have long supported domestic manufacturing, we share a common goal in rewarding manufacturers that make products domestically and create good-paying jobs. Thus, we respectfully request a meeting with you to discuss an economic agenda that promotes American manufacturing by preventing outsourcing and implementing strong Buy American laws.” Earlier this year, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced her American Jobs Agenda, which will ensure we are making products in America, closing loopholes that send jobs overseas, and holding countries like China accountable for unfair trade practices. In February, U.S. Senator Gary Peters introduced the Outsourcing Accountability Act to help consumers identify which companies are sending jobs overseas by requiring publicly traded companies to disclose their total numbers of employees by location, including by state and by country. Currently, publicly traded companies are required to disclose total number of employees, but not where they are based, making it very difficult to accurately track the number of jobs they are eliminating in the United States and moving overseas. The full text of the letter is below and a signed PDF is attached. July 20, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, Your administration declared this week to be “Made In America” week to showcase American manufacturers and American-made products. In Michigan, manufacturing is a key component of our economy. As Senators who have long supported domestic manufacturing, we share a common goal in rewarding manufacturers that make products domestically and create good-paying jobs. Thus, we respectfully request a meeting with you to discuss an economic agenda that promotes American manufacturing by preventing outsourcing and implementing strong Buy American laws. As you know, outsourcing has devastated communities and workers in the American heartland. For decades, the federal government has enabled outsourcing through loopholes in the federal tax code and waivers to Buy American laws. These policies have put American industry and workers at a significant disadvantage. We strongly believe that in order to reverse the long-standing effects of outsourcing, we must eliminate tax incentives that essentially force hardworking Americans to help pay for the costs of outsourcing their own jobs and policies that keep federal contracts flowing to companies that are not invested in creating jobs and products domestically. We recognize that you have promised to take a comprehensive approach to preventing outsourcing and enforcing Buy American provisions, but congressional action is still needed to ensure that U.S. jobs and billions in taxpayer dollars are not sent abroad. Given our shared interest, we request a meeting to discuss a broad range of legislative proposals that will promote U.S. jobs and lead to economic growth. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to hearing from you on this important matter.
07.20.2017	Stabenow Applauds Action Requiring Release of Study to Stop Asian Carp Thursday, July 20, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded news that the Senate Appropriations Committee included language in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill requiring the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to release a critical study to stop Asian carp within thirty days of the bill’s enactment. The study, which will provide important guidance on how best to prevent Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes, was supposed to be released in February but has been delayed indefinitely by the Trump Administration. “Today’s news is an important step toward getting the Army Corps to release this report so we can stop invasive species like Asian carp from entering our Great Lakes,” said Senator Stabenow. “This report is especially urgent given that a live silver carp was recently discovered just nine miles from Lake Michigan. There is no time to waste and I will work with my colleagues to make sure this language becomes law.” Earlier this year, Stabenow introduced the Stop Asian Carp Act with Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, the Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force. The Energy and Water Appropriations language included in the Senate Appropriations bill is very similar to the language in Stabenow’s legislation. The bill also requires the Army Corps to institute mandatory navigation protocols recommended by the Fish and Wildlife Service that would reduce the chances of vessels in the Illinois River inadvertently transporting invasive species like Asian carp safely through the electric barrier.
07.18.2017	Senators Peters, Stabenow Announce Over $2.7 Million for Delta County Airport Tuesday, July 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that Delta County Airport in Escanaba will receive a $2,729,672 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support infrastructure rehabilitation projects, including runway refurbishing and providing new signage and LED lighting for portions of the runway and taxiways. “The Delta County Airport plays a critical role in connecting Escanaba and Delta County residents with business and travel opportunities around the world,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help improve critical safety infrastructure to ensure the airport can continue providing dependable, efficient service for Escanaba and the entire Upper Peninsula.” “This investment will make traveling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel also promotes tourism and helps encourage businesses to invest in the UP and create jobs.” “This funding will be used to rebuild and refurbish portions of Delta County Airport taxiways and runways to make us more efficient and ensure that we are complying with important safety regulations,” said Kelly Smith, Delta County Airport Manager. “Ultimately, this funding enables us to continue offering safe and reliable commercial air service in the Upper Peninsula.” More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
07.13.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $3.4 Million for Detroit Metropolitan Airport Thursday, July 13, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Wayne County Airport Authority will receive $3,411,782 to construct a service road and rehabilitate runways at Detroit Metropolitan Airport (DTW). The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. “This investment will make travelling to and from Metro Detroit safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “The Detroit Metropolitan Airport connects southeast Michigan residents with travel and economic opportunities across the country and around the world,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. “I am pleased to announce this grant that will fund construction of new infrastructure projects to help improve the safety of airport personnel and travelers and make operations more efficient.” The Runway Incursion Management program helps airports reduce the risk of runway incursions. Incursions occur when an aircraft, vehicle, or person enters the protected area of an airport designated for aircraft landings and take offs. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/. ###
07.12.2017	Senator Stabenow Introduces Legislation to Help Small Businesses Grow Wednesday, July 12, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced legislation, the Growing Small Businesses Act, which would provide a tax cut to a small business planning to grow and expand. The bill provides a 25 percent tax credit for the cost of buildings and equipment for a business’s first commercial production facility. “During my small business tour, I have met so many talented entrepreneurs who are working hard every day to grow their businesses and create jobs,” said Senator Stabenow. “My bill provides a tax cut that will make it easier for bakers, brewers, software companies, and other small businesses across Michigan to take that next step to expand their business.” “This is a brand-new business for my husband Brad and me. We’ve been open for about six weeks, and we have loved making our products in Kitchen 242 (Muskegon’s incubator.) Being able to sell our baked goods and confections in our chalet at the Western Market downtown Muskegon has been a wonderful opportunity,” said Amy Major, owner of Donna Jeanne’s Sweet Dreams. “Our goal is to one day be able to open our own brick and mortar facility downtown, and this bill could help make our dreams come true." Since the 1970s, small businesses have created 55 percent of all new jobs but scaling up is one of the most expensive hurdles for a business. Stabenow’s legislation supports businesses that are in the process of getting off the ground, as well as businesses that have started small and want to expand from an incubator or home into their first facility. Some examples of businesses that would qualify for the tax credit in the Growing Small Businesses Act include food and beverage companies, software companies, film and sound production studios, and manufacturers. If the business does not owe income taxes, the tax credit would be refundable against a business’s payroll taxes up to $250,000. Amy and Brad Major are the owners of Donna Jeanne’s Sweet Dreams, a bakery and sweets shop in Muskegon. They are currently occupying space at Kitchen 242, an incubator in Muskegon, and selling their goods out of a temporary storefront that they leased for the summer. Amy and Brad hope to open their own brick and mortar store in downtown Muskegon.
07.07.2017	Stabenow, Peters Accepting Applications from Candidates Interested in Nomination for Federal Judgeship and U.S. Attorney in Eastern and Western Districts of Michigan Friday, July 07, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced they are accepting applications from qualified persons interested in nomination for federal judge or United States Attorney. There is currently one vacancy on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan and one vacancy on the United States District Court for the Western District. Both U.S. Attorney positions are also vacant. Interested candidates should request an application by emailing judicialnominations@stabenow.senate.gov. Applications are due no later than July 31, 2017. “As Senators representing the State of Michigan, it is our constitutional responsibility to evaluate a nominee’s qualifications, experience and judicial philosophy to ensure their nomination is in the best interest of the people of Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “I am confident that there are many qualified people in our state that are ready to serve as federal judge or U.S Attorney. I encourage those interested in serving to apply for these important positions.” “There is a long standing tradition of Senators evaluating and recommending highly qualified home state candidates for federal judgeship and U.S. Attorney roles,” said Senator Peters. “Federal judges and U.S. Attorneys make decisions that directly impact the people of Michigan as they work to administer justice fairly and compassionately, and I encourage qualified applicants who are interested in public service to apply.” It is the Senate’s tradition for both home state Senators to recommend judicial nominees to the President for consideration. After someone is nominated, it is Senate procedure for the home state senators to agree to consideration of a nominee before the Senate Judiciary Committee conducts hearings and votes. This is commonly called the “blue slip” process. Nominations approved by the Committee are then considered by the full Senate. President Trump has already nominated Justice Joan Larsen to the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals. Both Senators received her completed application and background materials last week, which includes hundreds of pages of documents. They are in the process of thoroughly reviewing her record. Senators Stabenow and Peters will continue to listen to public input and consult with Michigan’s legal community to ensure that our state is served by highly qualified, fair and impartial judges that put the people of Michigan first.
07.05.2017	Senator Stabenow Participates in Clawson’s Annual Fourth of July Parade Wednesday, July 05, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow celebrated the Clawson Fourth of July Festival with Southeast Michigan families on Tuesday, July 4. She participated in the Independence Day Parade which walked through the heart of downtown Clawson.
07.05.2017	Senator Stabenow Gives Remarks During Independence Day Celebration Honoring Veterans in Clarkston Wednesday, July 05, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow joined community members, families and veterans at the 7th Annual Clintonwood Park Independence Day Celebration on Tuesday, July 4. She gave brief remarks during the ceremony celebrating Michigan veterans and honoring the late Bart Clark, a Navy veteran. This year’s theme was “Celebrate Independence” and included a meet and greet as well as a 21 gun salute to honor those who have served.
07.05.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce More Than $4.6 Million in PILT Funding for Michigan Wednesday, July 05, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced $4,644,847 in funding for 29 Michigan counties through the Department of the Interior’s Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. Michigan is home to more than two million acres of federal lands, meaning that county governments throughout Michigan miss out on important property tax revenue every year. PILT program funds help to make up for the lost property tax revenue to fund essential services in these Michigan counties. “The PILT program helps many Michigan counties cover the costs of vital services that local residents rely on, from education to law enforcement to infrastructure maintenance,” said Senator Peters. “Without the support of PILT resources, many rural communities would otherwise struggle to fund these critical services. I’m pleased to join Senator Stabenow in announcing these funds that will ensure Michigan’s rural counties and their residents continue to thrive.” “As a former County Commissioner, I know the important role that local counties play in providing critical services like roads, police and fire protection,” said Senator Stabenow. “This funding will ensure the continuing partnership between our local communities, national forests, and other federal lands that contribute so much to our Michigan way of life.” The Department of the Interior’s PILT program helps local governments carry out such critical services as construction of public schools and roads, search-and-rescue operations as well firefighter and police services. The PILT program’s 2017 national payments will total $464.6 million made to approximately 1,900 local governments across the United States. Below are the Michigan counties that received PILT funding for 2017: County Payment Total Acres Alcona County $98,942 51,521 Alger County $266,392 137,348 Baraga County $79,397 36,771 Benzie County $31,157 8,435 Chippewa County $270,019 142,481 Crawford County $58,083 32,819 Delta County $337,606 172,567 Gogebic County $560,479 248,410 Houghton County $306,690 127,237 Iosco County $124,885 60,634 Iron County $362,191 150,049 Keweenaw County $350,108 131,997 Lake County $180,350 74,113 Leelanau County $133,435 39,870 Mackinac County $19,418 52,632 Manistee County $111,025 59,412 Marquette County $41,579 17,719 Mason County $111,181 45,222 Mecosta County $2,678 1,622 Montcalm County $3,827 1,773 Muskegon County $29,108 11,656 Newaygo County $107,533 67,776 Oceana County $79,603 32,915 Ogemaw County $2,180 5,909 Ontonagon County $525,947 230,414 Oscoda County $124,752 76,161 Schoolcraft County $211,235 93,209 Wayne County $3,164 1,193 Wexford County $111,883 55,927 Total $4,644,847 2,167,920
07.03.2017	In Grand Haven, Senator Stabenow Joins “All Hands on Deck” Event on Lake Michigan to Highlight Importance of Protecting Our Great Lakes Monday, July 03, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today joined community members at the Grand Haven State Park for the “All Hands on Deck” Great Lakes event. The event was one of 64 local events happening in communities and at public beaches in six different states to raise awareness about the importance of protecting our Great Lakes and funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. “All Hands on Deck” was started by Kimberly Simon of Charlevoix in March, 2017 to raise awareness and bring people together in a nonpartisan way to advocate for our Great Lakes. Kimberly launched the idea after the Trump Administration proposed eliminating funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. For a complete list of the more than 30 events happening in Michigan, visit https://allhandsondeckgreatlakes.org/communities-participating/ and for more information, visit https://allhandsondeckgreatlakes.org/. “Our Great Lakes are crucial to the health of both Michigan’s economy and our people and we have a special responsibility to protect them,” said Senator Stabenow. “I’d like to thank All Hands on Deck for raising awareness and bringing people together to stand up for the critical resources we need to protect our precious Great Lakes.” “Interest just keeps growing day by day—the momentum is amazing!” said Kimberly Simon. “The idea resonates with people across a very broad region because they all realize the Great Lakes are precious resources that are essential for our environment, our economies, and our way of life.” Senator Stabenow championed the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in 2010. GLRI is critical to supporting more than 1.5 million Great Lakes jobs, fighting invasive species like Asian carp, and protecting our Michigan way of life. In May, Stabenow led the bipartisan effort to successfully pass full funding for the Great Lakes for the remainder of fiscal year 2017. She has been asking Michigan families to join her in saving Great Lakes funding for next year by sharing stories and memories at https://www.stabenow.senate.gov/greatlakes. Senator Stabenow is also leading the effort to stop Asian carp from invading our Great Lakes. Recently, an eight-pound adult silver carp was captured only nine miles from Lake Michigan by a commercial fishing vessel whose activities are funded by GLRI. Stabenow’s Stop Asian Carp Now Act requires the Army Corps to release the Brandon Road study within seven days of the bill’s enactment. The Brandon Road study would detail a structural solution to stopping Asian carp at a critical chokepoint in the Illinois River. The study has already been delayed by the Trump Administration from its expected release in February of this year.
06.30.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $141,000 in Support for Graafschap Fire Department Friday, June 30, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $141,715 for the Graafschap Fire Department to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in West Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Graafshap firefighters and first responders protect our communities in the event of an emergency, and it is essential they have the equipment they need to perform their jobs safely,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to announce this funding that will ensure the Graafshap Fire Department can safely and efficiently serve the community.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
06.30.2017	Peters, Stabenow Urge Department of Defense to Explore Efforts to Reduce Prescription Drug Costs in TRICARE Friday, June 30, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis asking him for timely consideration of a pilot program to improve access and reduce the costs of prescription drugs in the TRICARE program, which serves active duty military personnel, National Guard, reservists, retired servicemembers and their families. “We believe the TRICARE Acquisition Cost Parity Pilot Program for Retail Pharmacy is a sensible approach to reducing prescription drug costs in the TRICARE program,” the senators wrote in the letter. “Because the FY2017 NDAA requires the pilot to begin on October 1, 2017, we urge you to act quickly to consider the pilot program. In addition to reducing costs to the TRICARE program, this pilot will help small businesses contribute back to their local economies and will help to sustain the pharmacy benefit upon which our deserving military veterans and families rely.” Currently, all TRICARE beneficiaries must get non-generic medications from a military treatment facility (MTF) or through mail order, but have no option to visit a pharmacy in person. The pilot program, which was established in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017, will allow beneficiaries to get their medications from local pharmacies while preserving access through the existing MTF and mail order systems, and reduce costs by allowing the Department of Defense to purchase non-generic medications at the same lower rate it pays for drugs dispensed through the mail or MTFs. The pilot will also provide additional options for the families of retired servicemembers, National Guard members and reservists who may not live near an MTF to visit a pharmacy in person to purchase their medications. There are more than 97,000 TRICARE beneficiaries living in Michigan, but there are no military treatment facilities in the state. The text of the letter is available here and copied below: The Honorable James Mattis Secretary of Defense Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Mattis: The undersigned members of the Senate urge the timely consideration of a pilot provision of the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that will reduce prescription drug costs for the Department, protect beneficiary health, and improve choice in points of access for beneficiaries. We believe the TRICARE Acquisition Cost Parity Pilot Program for Retail Pharmacy is a sensible approach to reducing prescription drug costs in the TRICARE program. Currently, all TRICARE beneficiaries are required to obtain their non-generic maintenance medications at a military treatment facility (MTF) or through mail order. This pilot will restore access to chain and small business pharmacies for retired beneficiaries who rely on non-generic maintenance medications, maintain access to existing mail order and MTF options and reduce costs. Cost savings would be achieved through the elimination of the acquisition cost disparity among pharmacy service locations by giving the DoD the authority to require that brand medications dispensed in the retail setting be purchased at the much lower rate it currently pays for the same medications dispensed in mail or MTFs. This change will save the DoD money through both lower purchasing costs and reduced administrative costs. Because the FY2017 NDAA requires the pilot to begin on October 1, 2017, we urge you to act quickly to consider the pilot program. In addition to reducing costs to the TRICARE program, this pilot will help small businesses contribute back to their local economies and will help to sustain the pharmacy benefit upon which our deserving military veterans and families rely. We look forward to working with the DoD on this program.
06.30.2017	Stabenow, Peters, Kildee Announce $15 Million to Assist Women, Children, and Families Affected by Lead Exposure This funding was included in the Flint agreement championed by Stabenow, Peters, and Kildee Friday, June 30, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters and Congressman Dan Kildee today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services awarded $15 million to the Genesee County Healthy Start program to assist women, children, and families affected by lead exposure. This funding was included in the Flint agreement that Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Kildee passed to provide long-awaited federal assistance for Flint and other communities affected by lead. “In our bipartisan Flint agreement, we made sure that caring for the children and pregnant moms affected by this crisis was a top priority,” said Senator Stabenow. “We know that pregnant moms and young children are especially vulnerable to the long-term health effects of lead. This funding will go a long way to making sure moms and children have access to important services they need to succeed.” “Lead exposure, particularly for young children and women, can have significant and long-term negative health consequences,” said Senator Peters. “I was proud to help secure approval of these funds through Congress last year. It is critical that Flint families have the wrap-around resources to meet their long-term health needs so they can recover from the water crisis and emerge stronger than ever.” “This significant investment is welcome news for my hometown which is still recovering from the water crisis. Healthy Start funding will go a long way toward helping Flint families and children mitigate the effects of lead poisoning by expanding access to health care and child development services,” said Congressman Kildee. “I am proud to have championed these resources through Congress last year and see this money awarded to Flint. Today’s announcement is an important reminder that the water crisis is not over. While these federal resources are important, it is also incumbent on the state of Michigan to do more to help aid in Flint’s recovery.” Genesee County Healthy Start Program will use this grant to expand access to services to reduce the health effects of lead exposure to pregnant women, infants, and young children affected by the water crisis. The services for impacted families will include medical, behavioral, and developmental screening. The Flint agreement was signed into law in 2016. This agreement provided $30 million to two different federal programs that fund efforts to address the short- and long-term effects of lead poisoning, particularly to pregnant women and new mothers. This funding also provides resources to educate the public on the dangers of lead exposure and helps states identify and address environmental health and public safety issues associated with lead. The Flint agreement also provided $100 million in funding to help fix Flint’s drinking water infrastructure, $20 million to create a national registry to monitor health effects of children exposed to lead, and an advisory committee to review ways to reduce lead exposure.
06.30.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Urge Federal Support of Michigan Communities Affected by Flooding Friday, June 30, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today sent letters to Michigan Governor Rick Snyder and U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue in support of federal disaster assistance for Michigan families, communities and farmers affected by severe flooding this month. The counties of Midland, Isabella, Gladwin, Bay and surrounding areas recently experienced heavy rainfall and flood waters that displaced families from their homes, damaged personal property, destroyed roads and bridges, and caused serious crop loss. As the State of Michigan and local officials assess the damage, the Senators wrote to Governor Snyder in support of federal assistance for the affected communities. “Our offices have been communicating with local officials as they work with you and your team to assess the impacts on individuals and property and tackle the immediate needs of the communities affected by the flooding,” the Senators wrote to Governor Snyder. “Should your assessments on the damages and necessary resources for recovery extend beyond the capacity of the State and local governments, we stand ready to support you and assist in efforts to seek federal assistance.” The Senators also notified Secretary Perdue of the reported agricultural crop loss and requested his support for Michigan farmers. “We are writing to ask for your Department’s support of this assessment and careful consideration should a request for a disaster declaration be made for the impacted counties, the Senators wrote to Secretary Perdue. “Given the seriousness of initial reports of crop damage and loss, we urge you to expedite the decision making process for a declaration.” The full text of the letter to Governor Snyder is available here and the full text of the letter to Secretary Perdue is available here.
06.30.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $773,000 in Support for Dearborn Fire Department Friday, June 30, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $773,637 for the Dearborn Fire Department to help purchase personal protection gear and provide for training and vehicle maintenance. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Dearborn put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Dearborn depends on their local firefighters to protect their homes, their livelihoods and their families,” said Senator Peters. “These new resources will help the Dearborn Fire Departments perform critical vehicle maintenance that will help the department to better serve the community.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
06.30.2017	Peters, Stabenow Introduce Resolutions Recognizing Centennials at Selfridge Air National Guard Base and Fort Custer Training Center Friday, June 30, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) announced they introduced two resolutions in the U.S. Senate to recognize Selfridge Air National Guard Base and the Fort Custer Training Center on their 100th anniversaries. “Since their establishment 100 years ago, Selfridge and Fort Custer have been central to Michigan’s military history and continue to play critical roles in our national defense,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “From defeating tyranny in Nazi-occupied Europe to preparing Guardsmen to combat emerging threats like ISIS, the brave men and women at both of these installations have always stood ready to answer the call to defend our nation. I met some of the most dedicated and patriotic servicemembers when I drilled at Selfridge as a Navy Reservist, and I will never forget their sacrifices. I am proud to honor Selfridge, Fort Custer and Michigan’s National Guard on the last century of achievements, and I look forward to seeing how they will lead our state and our nation into the next 100 years.” “With a century of service tracing back to World War I, Fort Custer and Selfridge continue to play a vital role in our state's and nation’s defense,” said Senator Stabenow. “Both military installations have deep community roots, support thousands of local jobs, and are well-positioned for future missions and new opportunities. This centennial gives us an opportunity to celebrate Michigan’s rich military heritage and thank the men and women in uniform who have put their lives on the line to defend our nation.” “It's a very exciting time for the 127th Wing. Selfridge has a legacy of defending democracy, serving both state and nation, through continuous aviation spanning the past 100 years,” said General John Slocum, Commander of the 127th Wing at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. “As we lean forward into the next 100 years, we continually look for new and innovative ways to remain a solid and sustainable force. Selfridge is a strong contender as one of the top five Air National Guard bases for the new F-35 Lightning II fighter jet mission. This speaks volumes about the caliber of the men and women who support the many missions here at Selfridge. Selfridge stands ready for unparalleled evolution and continued growth over the next 100 years.” “It is very fitting that on July 1st, 100 years to the day of the official groundbreaking of Camp Custer in 1917, we celebrate Fort Custer's century of service to the State and Nation,” Lt. Colonel Steve Wilson, Fort Custer Training Center Post Commander. “As the current custodians of this Garrison, it is a tremendous honor to recognize Fort Custer's contributions to the Nation during two World Wars through present day while setting the conditions for another successful century of service.” The Selfridge Air National Guard Base was first commissioned by the U.S. Army on July 1, 1917 in Harrison Township. Named after Army 1st Lieutenant Thomas E. Selfridge, who saw the potential of powered flight, today it is host to more than 30 tenant units representing every branch of the Armed Forces. In 2015, the 127th Attack Wing based at Selfridge deployed approximately 500 airmen in support of Operation Inherent Resolve, the mission to eliminate ISIS. Currently, Selfridge is a finalist to host the Air National Guard’s new F-35 mission. Fort Custer was constructed as Camp Custer in 1917 in Augusta, near Battle Creek. Fort Custer was formally designated as a permanent military base during World War II, where more than 300,000 servicemembers trained. Fort Custer continues to serve as a state of the art training facility for the Michigan National Guard and other branches of the Armed Forces, including Reserve Officers’ Training Corps students. Currently, Fort Custer is one of three finalists to host a missile defense interceptor site for the East Coast. ###
06.27.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Cherry Grove Fire Department Tuesday, June 27, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $57,519 for the Cherry Grove Fire Department to purchase chest compression systems and upgrade their air packs. The chest compression system will help free up the department’s medical team to treat more patients, which is especially valuable in rural areas where the nearest hospital can be 30 minutes away. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Cherry Grove Township put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Cherry Grove Township firefighters put their lives on the line to protect our homes, our families and our small businesses,” said Senator Peters. “These new resources will provide the department with a chest compression system that will help firefighters and first responders treat more patients and save lives in emergency situations.” “This grant will help us tremendously to better serve our community and provide better quality of service to our residents,” said Randy Miles, Fire Chief of the Cherry Grove Fire Department. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This equipment is critical to ensuring the safety of firefighters as they respond to emergencies and protect our communities. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
06.27.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Macomb County Fire Departments Tuesday, June 27, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $346,364 for the St. Clair Shores, Roseville and Eastpointe Fire Departments to purchase new handheld, vehicle and headset radios to meet the latest standards for emergency communications equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Macomb County put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “The St. Clair Shores, Roseville and Eastpointe Fire Departments work closely together to protect our homes, our families and our businesses,” said Senator Peters. “These new resources will help ensure firefighters and first responders have the equipment necessary to communicate with one another, do their jobs safely, and protect the community during emergency situations.” "This is a great example of regional cooperation and working together to identify and utilize alternative funding opportunities to keep our residents safe,” said Mayor Kip Walby, St. Clair Shores. “We appreciate the AFG program, especially here in Michigan given the reductions in municipal finances through our State. We thank our Senators who support this critical program." The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program has positively affected public safety by providing nearly $7.3 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This equipment is critical to ensuring the safety of firefighters as they respond to emergencies and protect our communities. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
06.26.2017	Stabenow Statement on Congressional Budget Office Score of Senate Republican Health Care Bill Monday, June 26, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement on the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office score of the Senate Republican health care bill that says the bill leaves 22 million people without insurance by 2026: “Once again, the nonpartisan budget report shows that the Republican health care bill is a bad deal for Michigan families and for the country. The Republican bill does nothing to address rising out-of-pocket and prescription drug costs. Instead, it will raise costs for families, take away medical coverage, and use the savings to give a major tax cut to the wealthiest Americans. And, buried in in the fine print, this bill will end the expanded Medicaid coverage that was used to help children and pregnant moms with lead exposure in Flint get comprehensive health care. I urge my Senate Republican colleagues to vote "no" on proceeding to this bill, and instead, work with us to lower costs and improve health care for all Americans.”
06.23.2017	Stabenow Statement on News That Live Silver Carp Discovered Nine Miles from Lake Michigan Friday, June 23, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, released a statement on news that an eight-pound adult Silver carp was captured yesterday morning only nine miles from Lake Michigan: “Today’s news is a wakeup call. It is deeply alarming that a live Silver carp was found only nine miles from Lake Michigan. While I’m glad the emergency protocols I helped create through legislation in 2015 played a role in this detection, the fact remains that we need a permanent solution at Brandon Road. We need to know how the Silver carp came so close to Lake Michigan and whether there are any additional carp in the area.” The eight-pound Silver carp was found by a commercial fishing vessel whose activities to combat Asian carp are funded by the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). GLRI funding is also providing resources for emergency monitoring and response actions that will be taken over the next two weeks by the Fish and Wildlife Service, Army Corps of Engineers, and the State of Illinois to detect and stop any additional Silver carp in these waters near Lake Michigan. Just this week, Senator Stabenow and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) introduced legislation, the Stop Asian Carp Now Act, which would require the Army Corps to release the Brandon Road study within seven days of the bill’s enactment. The Brandon Road study would detail a structural solution to stopping Asian carp at a critical chokepoint in the Illinois River. The study has already been delayed by the Trump Administration from its expected release in February of this year. Senator Stabenow worked with other Great Lakes appropriators to secure language in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus that required the Army Corps to establish formal emergency procedures – including rapid response protocols and monitoring – to prevent Asian Carp from reaching Lake Michigan.
06.21.2017	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Legislation Demanding Administration Release Report on Asian Carp Wednesday, June 21, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today introduced the Stop Asian Carp Now Act, which will require the Trump Administration to release the Brandon Road Study within seven days of the bill’s enactment. The Brandon Road Lock and Dam study will provide important guidance on how best to prevent Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes and is an important hurdle before further action can be taken. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, authored companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. “It’s incredibly irresponsible for the Trump Administration to continue to block the Army Corps from releasing a crucial plan to address the threat of Asian carp to our Great Lakes,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “Our Great Lakes are so essential to our economy and our way of life in Michigan. Our bill would require the Administration to release the report immediately so we can move forward with a permanent solution to protect the Great Lakes from Asian carp.” “We need swift action to protect the Great Lakes from the spread of invasive Asian carp to ensure our waterways remain healthy and can continue to power Michigan’s economy,” said Senator Peters. “I am proud to support this legislation that will require the Army Corps of Engineers to quickly release the Brandon Road Study so that we can immediately take the necessary measures to protect our Great Lakes ecosystem from this harmful invasive species.” Asian carp represent a serious economic and environmental threat to the Great Lakes and this report is a critical next step in finding and implementing a solution. The report has already been delayed by the Trump Administration from its expected release in February of this year. Once the report is released a public comment period can begin, and further action can be decided in an open and transparent way.
06.20.2017	ICYMI: Senator Stabenow Joins Senate Democrats to Hold the Floor, Calls on Republicans to Make Health Care Bill Public (VIDEO) Tuesday, June 20, 2017 Last night, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) joined other Senate Democrats to hold the Senate floor and call on Republicans to make the text of their health care bill public. Video of Senator Stabenow’s speech is available here and a transcript is included below. To watch the full coverage of the Senate floor, click here. “Republicans are hiding their bill because they know it is a bad deal for American families,” said Senator Stabenow. “Costs go up, care goes down, all to cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires. It's time for Republicans to show us the bill so we can move beyond partisanship to get something done for the American people.” Full text of Senator Stabenow’s Remarks: “Mr. President, I’m rising this evening to talk about an issue that affects every single person, every single family in Michigan and all across the nation and that’s health care. “And I feel very confident that I can say that each one of the 48 members of the Democratic Caucus, each and every one of us, would love to be on this floor working with Republican colleagues across the aisle to lower the cost of prescription drugs, to lower the out-of-pocket costs of health care, to create more competition, more insurance choices for people in the insurance pools that are there now, to basically fix the problems. “But we’re here, and I’m proud to be with colleagues tonight, because we are not willing to support anything that unravels the health care system, raises costs and takes away health care for people -- that on top of that gives a tax cut to the wealthiest Americans, insurance executives, pharmaceutical companies with the dollars that are cut. “The House has passed a bill that in fact raises costs, takes away health care, gives the tax cut I talked about. Now, we’re in the Senate. Now, the Republicans have a health care bill but they won’t let us see it. “I’m the ranking Democrat on the Health Subcommittee of the Finance Committee. You would think that someone would have reached out to have conversations with me and the members of our subcommittee and the members of our whole committee. But that has not happened. “So they’re letting the Trump Administration see it. But not the American public. They’re letting K Street lobbyists see it. In fact, that’s probably where I’ll get a copy first -- through lobbyists. But not the American public who will lose their health care and pay more. “If you have cancer and you’re not going to be able to get coverage, if you’re going to potentially be dropped or now a have a preexisting condition or get a cap put on the number of cancer treatments that you can receive, I believe you have a right to receive this bill. “If you have epilepsy and will lose your insurance, you have a right to see this bill. “If you’re a woman who will be charged more for insurance and be considered to have a preexisting condition just because you are a woman, you have a right to see this bill. “And if you’re a senior whose rates are going to go skyrocketing upwards, you have a right to see this bill. But the sad fact is Republicans don’t think the American people have a right to know or to see this bill or to review it, or to comment on it, to have a chance to give their opinion on it. “The difference in process couldn’t be more clear between the way the Affordable Care Act was originally worked on for about 18 months and then passed, and what’s happening right now. “In 2009, Republicans called for a fair, collaborative and deliberative legislative process. And I agree. In fact, we all agreed. From 2009 to 2010, the Senate Finance Committee held more than 53 hearings on health reform. Hearings, open committee meetings, work sessions. “As a new member of Finance at that time, I was involved in every single one of those. Hours and hours and hours of listening, deliberating and people sharing their opinions, debating. Counting the health committee deliberations, there were 100 hearings and committee meetings before the bill was finalized and debated to be reported out of committee. 100. “The Republicans have had no hearings – zero hearings – no public meetings, zero public meetings. During the Finance Committee markup, when we were working through and voting out the bill, we considered 135 amendments often late into the night. The final Senate bill included 147 Republican amendments. “Until the end, we were trying to do everything we could to get bipartisan support when it was clear that politically there was not a desire even with 147 Republican amendments in the bill to have a bipartisan health care bill. But Republicans won’t even allow us to see the bill, let alone amend it. “Now, our position is very clear. If there is no hearing, there is no vote. They need to show us the bill. But there's, I think, a really good reason that they won't show us the bill. They won't let us see it because it's a disaster for the American people. It’s a disaster for people in Michigan that I represent. “From the House bill, we know that 14 million fewer people will be insured after the first year. 23 million fewer people will be insured after ten years. Now this may change somewhat back and forth. We have no idea. But we know the general framework that the Senate is working in is the same general framework as the House. “We know that in 2026, according to the budget office, 51 million people -- 51 million people -- under the age of 65 will be uninsured. No insurance. We’re told that premiums would go up 20% next year and states would be allowed to opt out of key insurance laws that protect consumers. “To really understand what that means, that means all of the decisions about your care go back to the insurance companies. Not your doctor. “You know, laws that protect people with preexisting conditions, gone. Rules that prevent women from being charged more, gone. Laws that prevent seniors from being charged more, gone. “And the way it used to be is if you got sick, the insurance company could decide to drop you. It was the insurance company that said how many cancer treatments that you were able to receive or mental health visits, if any, you would receive. And you always paid more than for physical health. The same with addiction. This all goes away with what's being talked about here. “In other words, costs are going to go up and care is going to go down. And to add insult to injury, all of this is going to go to tax cuts for multimillionaires and billionaires and drug companies and insurance company execs. While somebody is losing their nursing home care, their cancer treatments, maternity care, children unable to go to the doctor and parents forced to go back to using the emergency room. “Mr. President, I want to share what these changes would mean for people in Michigan. There are so many people I’ve talked to, so many stories that I’ve heard. I received a letter from a woman in Michigan named Amy who owns a small retail business, has health insurance through her husband's job. Small business owner. Amy has chronic myeloid leukemia. It is managed with a medication that costs $20,000 a month. Not a year. A month. “After her deductible and 10% copay, she said she quickly reaches the maximum out-of-pocket expense on her insurance each year. Amy wrote, ‘Preexisting conditions, maximum out-of-pocket costs, lifetime caps are important to me. Without them, I could never afford my health care. Without the Affordable Care Act, I could quickly bankrupt my family and still die. Please consider my situation when deciding your vote on any changes to health care. I need your help. I want and need to stay alive and raise my children.’ “Health reform allows Amy to stay on her husband's insurance plan and pay for the cancer treatments that are keeping her alive. The Republican plan would put people with preexisting conditions, like cancer, at the mercy, again, of health insurance companies. “Here’s another way the Republican plan would hurt Michigan families. Thanks to the Medicaid expansion, 650,000 people are newly covered under what we call Healthy Michigan, the Healthy Michigan Plan. And the good news is 97% of Michigan children can now go to the doctor. They don't have to wait and go to the emergency room. If they have a cold, their mom or dad can take them to a doctor. They can get preventive care rather than waiting until something awful happens and go into the emergency room. “And what's the good news for the state of Michigan out of that? Michigan will end up this year going into next year with $432 million more in the Treasury. Taxpayer dollars that aren't going to have to be used on health care, because the right thing was done, creating a way for children to see a doctor. And what has happened? We have a 50% reduction on folks going into the emergency room that don't have insurance, and it saves money when you do that. The number of people treated has gone down 50%. The number of people treated without insurance. “You know, the great thing about health care to understand is that if we ignore it, it doesn't mean people don't get sick, that they don't get cancer, they don't need to have a nursing home or that their child doesn't get sick. “If you just ignore it, the costs go up because people ultimately use the most expensive ways to get treated. If you actually plan it out and do the right thing on the front end and people can see a doctor and they can get the checkups and the care that they need and the treatments they need, you actually save money. That’s the example of the state of Michigan. But the Republican plan would end the Medicaid expansion. Healthy Michigan would go away. “One young man in Michigan, only 19 years old, shared a story of living with his single mom when he was diagnosed with testicular cancer. He was working but his employer didn’t offer health insurance. He didn't have transportation to get to his appointments or treatments. Thanks to Healthy Michigan, he got insurance and treatment at Munson Healthcare in Traverse City. He is now free from cancer, has a job with benefits, and is engaged to be married and we wish him well. Healthy Michigan and the Medicaid expansion saved this young man's life. “The Republican plan would end the Healthy Michigan plan, ripping coverage away from 650,000 people in Michigan, including cancer patients. And for what? For what? To pay for tax breaks for drug companies and the ultra-wealthy one more time. This means Michigan families will be unable to care for their loved ones when they need it most. “In January, I led a forum on Secretary Price’s health care policies and a woman told her story. Ann was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis when she was 40 years old. She has very limited use of her arms and legs. We are so grateful that she made the trip to D.C. to share her story. Medicare and secondary insurance cover most of the costs of her medication, which costs an astonishing $75,000 a year. That’s nearly her entire household income, including social security benefits. Ann had been caring for her aging mom when her mom's dementia worsened and didn't know where she would find the $6,000 a month to pay for nursing home care. How many families are in that situation? “Fortunately, Ann’s mom qualified for Medicaid -- which by the way three out of five seniors in Michigan are able to get their health care, their nursing home care, through Medicaid. Three out of five are getting nursing home care because of Medicaid, including Ann’s mom. And this nursing home care paid for the final three years of her life. Here’s what Ann said, ‘It was only because of Medicaid that she was able to get the help that she needed at the end of her life. I don't know how I could have cared for my mom on top of managing my own care. My family would have lost our home and all of our savings trying to keep up with their bills.’ “Medicaid helped Ann care for her mom at the end of her life. This is a good thing. But again, the Republican plan would cut Medicaid by $834 billion. That’s the House plan coming over. We don't know how much will be cut here, but we know whatever will be cut will be used for tax breaks for drug companies, insurance CEOs, millionaires and billionaires. How does that reflect American values? “In conclusion, Republicans are hiding their bill because they know it is a bad deal for American families. It is a bad deal. The President of the United States called it mean. I agree with him. It is mean, and it's definitely a bad deal for the people I represent in Michigan. “Costs go up, care goes down, all to cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires. We are better than this as a country. Our nation is better than this. It's time for Republicans to show us the bill so we can work on it together give us a chance -- give the American people a chance to have input, to say what they think before it's forced on them in a secret process that's rammed through this floor. And it's time to move beyond partisanship to get something done for the American people. “Again, I know that the 48 Democratic senators in this chamber want to work on lowering the costs of prescription drugs and reducing out-of-pocket costs and helping small businesses that want to provide coverage for their employees and making the health care system better. Let’s stop this bad bill and work together on behalf of the American people.” ###
06.13.2017	Stabenow, Peters, Upton Announce that President Will Award Medal of Honor to Vietnam War Veteran James C. McCloughan Tuesday, June 13, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters and Congressman Fred Upton today announced that President Trump will award the Medal of Honor to Vietnam War Veteran James C. McCloughan on July 31, 2017. This follows legislation passed by Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Upton to make then-Private First Class McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor. Their legislation passed the Senate as part of the National Defense Authorization Act and was signed into law by President Obama in December of 2016. Then-Private First Class McCloughan, a native and current resident of South Haven, served as a medic and saved the lives of 10 members of his platoon who were wounded during the Battle of Nui Yon Hill on May 13-15, 1969. McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5). “We are forever grateful for then-Private First Class James McCloughan’s service to our country,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today, we are proud to announce that he is finally getting the recognition he deserves.” “As a Private First Class, James McCloughan risked his life to stay behind in the heat of battle and aid his fellow servicemembers,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a Former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “He exemplified the values of honor, courage and comradery that makes our military the finest in the world. Awarding James McCloughan the Medal of Honor will finally give him the full recognition he has earned for his bravery and service.” “Then-Private First Class James McCloughan is an American hero – there is no doubt about that. During close-combat, when his fellow soldiers were in dire need, PFC McCloughan stepped up. His selfless actions saved lives,” said Congressman Upton. “When he was done serving our country, PFC McCloughan quietly returned home to South Haven where he dedicated his life to helping others, as a coach and teacher at South Haven High School. The Medal of Honor is our nation’s highest military honor and we are so proud and deeply grateful for PFC McCloughan’s service. It’s time he finally receives the recognition he duly earned on the battlefield all those years ago.” Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The legislation passed by Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Upton waived the five-year requirement and made it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to him. Then-Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated, receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, The National Defense Medal, The Good Conduct Medal, The Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, The Vietnam Campaign Medal, The Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge.
06.13.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Plymouth and Ann Arbor Tuesday, June 13, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in Plymouth and Ann Arbor as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Compari’s on the Park, Dearborn Jewelers, Spa Agio, and Argus Farm Stop. Stabenow’s tour has included over 90 stops in communities across the state including East Tawas, Alpena, Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “It was great to meet the resilient and innovative business owners in Plymouth and Ann Arbor who help keep our economy in Michigan growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It is truly inspiring to talk to those who have invested their own time, capital and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” “I’m happy that our representatives are taking the time to reach out and speak with small business owners about their concerns,” said Kerri Pollard, Co-Owner and Director of Spa Agio. “Senator Stabenow and I had a wonderful and open-ended conversation about health care, which is also a huge concern for me as a small business owner.” “Senator Stabenow’s role in crafting the Farm Bill is important to our small farms who really care about being represented and encouraged to grow their businesses,” said Kathy Sample and Bill Brinkerhoff, Co-Owners of Argus Farm Stop. “Having Senator Stabenow come to visit, and learn out our new model for growing our local food ecosystem, was a good opportunity for our farms! They enjoyed meeting her, as did the Argus Farm Stop staff!” ###
06.13.2017	Senator Stabenow Praises New Investments to Connect Michigan Schools with Locally Grown Food Tuesday, June 13, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) announcement to award new funds to support two innovative initiatives that will bring locally grown food to Michigan school cafeterias. The grant funding was made available through USDA’s Farm to School Program, which helps schools source fresh and healthy local foods. The Farm to School Program also educates students about how food grows through school garden programs and farm visits. “Farm to School projects provide our children with fresh, nutritious food, while also teaching them healthy eating habits that can last a lifetime,” said Stabenow. “Connecting Michigan farms with our classrooms and cafeterias also provides new economic opportunities for local farmers, helping to create jobs and grow our state’s diverse agricultural sector.” Stabenow has led efforts to ensure children have access to healthy Michigan-grown foods like fruits and vegetables in every school meal. She authored the 2014 Farm Bill, which connects Michigan farmers to schools, hospitals and local consumers. She has also championed efforts to expand salad bars and Farm to School initiatives into more schools. USDA’s Farm to School Grants help schools respond to the growing demand for locally sourced foods and increase market opportunities for producers and food businesses, including food processors, manufacturers, and distributors. These grants will also be used to support agriculture and nutrition education efforts such as school gardens, field trips to local farms, and cooking classes across the country. South Haven Public Schools and the Michigan Department of Education will each receive a Farm to School Grant. South Haven Public Schools will receive $98,264 to launch a collaborative effort to increase locally-grown food at school, expand nutrition education, and two mobile greenhouse buses in the school garden. The Michigan Department of Education will receive $70,280 to connect school food service directors with local food suppliers through the creation of a Farm to School Leadership Institute.
06.09.2017	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Legislation to Protect and Restore Recreational Fisheries Friday, June 09, 2017 As Free Fishing Weekend kicks off across Michigan, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters introduced two bills to protect and restore fisheries across the state. Fishing is critical to tourism and our Michigan way of life. Millions of anglers visit the State of Michigan every year, contributing more than $4 billion to our economy. U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) also introduced both bills today. “Our Great Lakes economy depends on tourism, including fishing and boating,” said Senator Stabenow. “We need to invest more to protect and restore our fisheries so that more people in Michigan and across the country can enjoy our amazing lakes and waterways and world-class opportunities for recreational and sport fishing.” “Michigan’s fisheries are a lifeline to communities across the state that rely on the Great Lakes for economic opportunity and are a crucial component of what makes the Great Lakes so unique,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to join Senator Stabenow in supporting our fisheries and making investments that will help the Great Lakes continue to thrive as an economic engine for Michigan’s tourism and boating industries.” “The American Sportfishing Association salutes Senator Stabenow’s leadership in ensuring sound management and stewardship of the Great Lakes,” and Scott Gudes, Vice President for Government Affairs at the American Sportfishing Association. “Her bills to establish mass marking and aquatic connectivity, provide for protection of habitat, infrastructure and wise management of fisheries. This legislation will combat incursion of new invasive species and ensure that anglers have access to healthy game fish, both wild and hatchery stocks.” "Opening up streams for Great Lakes fish is essential to improving species richness and the environment," said David Ullrich, chair of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. "These bills, when enacted, will lead to healthier populations of desired fishes while still protecting streams from harmful invaders like sea lamprey. The Great Lakes Mass Marking Program would help fishery managers make essential decisions about the predator-prey balance in the lakes. The millions of people who enjoy the $7 billion fishery benefit from mass marking, and I urge Congress to pass this important legislation." “The Great Lakes and recreational boating industry need improved infrastructure and access, and modernized systems and services in place that will strengthen public lands and waterways, contributing to lasting outdoor recreation experiences for visitors. We applaud the introduction of these bills, which lead the way in providing a proactive solution,” said Nicole Vasilaros, National Marine Manufacturers Association’s vice president of federal and legal affairs. “The recreational boating industry in the Great Lakes states has a total economic impact of $36.4 billion annually, supporting more than 7,100 businesses, most of which are small to medium-sized. Creating a 21st century infrastructure system in the Great Lakes is the first step in ensuring the region’s long term vitality and maximizing its potential economic impact on the local communities and U.S.” The Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program Act (S. 1332) will improve Great Lakes fisheries and encourage habitat restoration by repairing and replacing aging dams, culverts, and roads. There are thousands of these structures across the Great Lakes Basin that currently inhibit the movement of fish populations. Great Lakes states and tribal governments will be able to recommend grant projects to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to either expand fish access to waterways or prevent the spread of invasive species. The Great Lakes Mass Marking Program Act (S. 1331) will make scientific technology available to track and monitor the health of fisheries in the Great Lakes. They will be used to make decisions to support and rehabilitate sport fish populations in the basin. This program was initiated in the Great Lakes on a limited scale in 2010, and will be fully established in statute under this legislation.
06.08.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $200,000 for Three Land and Water Conservation Projects in Michigan Thursday, June 08, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, and Gary Peters announced $222,800 in federal funding, which will be matched by private investments, to support land and water conservation projects throughout Michigan. The funding is provided by the National Park Service’s Land and Water Conservation Fund State & Local Assistance Program. Livingston County will receive $86,000 to develop trails, sports fields, and recreation facilities at Fillmore County Park. St. Joseph County will receive $62,500 to develop trails, sports fields, and boating facilities at Cade Lake Park and Campground. The City of Ionia will receive $86,000 to develop picnic areas, sports fields and recreation facilities at Robinson Community Park. “Boating, camping, and hiking are a part of who we are and our Michigan way of life,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, families across the state will be able to enjoy these wonderful improvements to our parks and campgrounds.” “Local parks, trails and recreation facilities help create strong communities and better neighborhoods,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help provide the resources needed to maintain and improve our parks and campgrounds, opening up new recreational opportunities for Michigan families.” The Land and Water Conservation Fund State & Local Assistance Program provides matching grants for local and state park projects outside national park boundaries. Over 40,000 grants to states and localities have been approved under the LWCF grants program for acquisition, development, and planning of outdoor recreation opportunities in the United States. More information about the grant can be found at https://www.nps.gov/subjects/lwcf/stateside.htm. ###
06.08.2017	Stabenow, Bergman and Michigan Delegation Members Introduce Bipartisan Soo Locks Modernization Act Thursday, June 08, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Representative Jack Bergman, U.S. Senator Gary Peters, and Representatives Sandy Levin, Fred Upton, Bill Huizenga, Tim Walberg, Dan Kildee, Mike Bishop, Debbie Dingell, Brenda Lawrence, John Moolenaar, Dave Trott, and Paul Mitchell today introduced the bipartisan Soo Locks Modernization Act. The legislation authorizes the necessary level of funding to construct another Poe-sized lock. Introduction of this legislation comes just days after seven Members of Michigan’s Congressional delegation and Governor Snyder toured the Soo Locks, which are critical to both our state’s and our country’s economy and national security. The Soo Locks facility is comprised of four parallel locks – the Poe, the MacArthur, the Sabin, and the Davis. Today, only the Poe and MacArthur Locks are operational. Only the Poe Lock is large enough to handle 70 percent of the cargo that passes through the Locks. There have been no comprehensive improvements to the Soo Locks facility in nearly 50 years. Approximately 80 million tons of iron ore, coal, stone, grain, and other commercial commodities pass through the locks annually. “We are on borrowed time until something happens that shuts down the Poe Lock,” said Senator Stabenow. “Just last week, our delegation toured the Soo Locks and saw pumps that were 100 years old and a Lock built back in World War II. Our whole delegation is working together to secure funding to build a replacement lock. We must ensure this vital gateway for commerce and jobs stays open.” “The First District is the proud home of one of the most important drivers of industry, jobs, and the economy in our country: the Soo Locks,” Rep. Jack Bergman said. “That said, we’ve reached the point where modernization is absolutely critical to prevent unscheduled interruptions in operation and nationwide economic disaster. Right now, we have the leadership we need at every level to push forward and get this project funded. That’s what this legislation is all about—investing in Michigan’s future—and I’m proud to be joined by a bipartisan majority of the Michigan delegation in introducing it.” “The Soo Locks have been called the Achilles’ heel of our American manufacturing industry, and even a short unplanned outage at the Poe Lock would seriously impact Michigan’s manufacturers and our national economy,” said Senator Peters. “I’m proud to join my colleagues to introduce bipartisan legislation that will authorize much-needed upgrades to the aging Soo Locks and ensure American manufacturers can continue to operate without the looming threat of a potential failure or shutdown.” “The Soo Locks play a critical role in our state’s economy by transporting almost 80 million tons of commercial commodities annually—goods that are of great importance to Michigan’s manufacturing and agriculture sectors. Without proper investment in the Locks, we are putting Michigan jobs in jeopardy,” said Rep. Sandy Levin. “During our bipartisan delegation trip to the Soo Locks we discussed the critical need to upgrade and build a replacement lock, ensuring this vibrant commercial gateway remains open and operational,” Rep. Fred Upton said. “Not completing this project could lead to significant economic consequences for both Michigan and the country. By investing in our future, we can ensure Michigan stays on the cutting-edge of job and economic growth. I look forward to continuing working closely with my Michigan colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this bipartisan legislation across the finish line.” “The Soo Locks are vital not only to Michigan manufacturing but to our nation’s economy as a whole,” said Rep. Bill Huizenga. “It is imperative the Army Corps identifies a fiscally sound approach to modernizing the Locks.” “Great Lakes shipping has a significant economic impact on the Port of Monroe in my district, the entire state of Michigan, and the country as a whole,” said Rep. Tim Walberg. “The Soo Locks are a critical gateway in transporting products across the region, and a disruption in operations would be damaging for our economy and harm millions of jobs. Modernizing the Soo Locks has been put off for too long, and I'm delighted to work in a bipartisan way to finally get this project done.” “Sadly, many issues in Congress become politicized and divisive, but our Michigan delegation has worked really hard to overcome conventional partisanship when our state’s economy and interests are at stake. Modernizing and expanding the Soo Locks and protecting our Great Lakes are both issues that Democrats and Republicans agree on and will fight to do. Michigan’s economy and tens of thousands of jobs directly tied to the Soo Locks and our Great Lakes are at stake,” Rep. Dan Kildee said. “The Soo Locks are a pivotal part of Michigan’s economy and the Midwest region as a whole,” said Rep. Mike Bishop. “Our entire delegation must work together to ensure this essential gateway through the Great Lakes can continue operating for years to come.” “The Soo Locks are vital to the economic health and security not only of Michigan, but the entire United States, and making sure they are working and reliable should be an American priority,” said Rep. Debbie Dingell. “If the Poe Lock were to shut down for six months, the consequences for our economy could be devastating, with 11 million jobs lost nationwide. This bipartisan legislation recognizes the urgent need for action, and ensures we take the proactive and necessary steps to safeguard the locks and our economy for decades to come.” “I was glad to join a bipartisan Michigan delegation to visit the Soo Locks recently, and we all could agree on the vital role the Locks play in the state of Michigan and our nation,” said Rep. Brenda Lawrence. “The functioning of the Locks significantly impacts our economy and national security and we must do all that we can to support its function. That is why I support this legislation that would authorize adequate funding to complete the needed repairs to the Locks so that the commerce that is critical to our nation continues to flourish and jobs are secured for the American people.” “The Soo Locks are vital to our country,” Rep. John Moolenaar said. “We need to improve the 50-year old infrastructure and build a new lock to grow the economy and protect good-paying jobs for hardworking Michigan residents.” "Transporting billions of dollars of goods annually, the functionality of the deteriorating Soo Locks is critical to Michigan's economy, our national economy, and our national security,” Rep. Dave Trott said. “We need to ensure this economic lifeline can accommodate 21st Century freighters and support good paying jobs for hardworking Michigan families." “The Soo Locks are a critical piece of American infrastructure that are long overdue for an upgrade,” said Rep. Paul Mitchell. “A failure at the Locks would have disastrous consequences for the U.S. economy, causing businesses to close, and costing jobs. We simply cannot allow that to happen. I am proud to support this legislation to authorize necessary updates to the Soo Locks and protect the future of our economy. The time to update America’s infrastructure is now.” In 2015, the MacArthur Lock experienced a scheduled outage when a faulty gate mechanism forced a rare mid-shipping season shutdown that closed the lock for 20 days while crews performed repairs. The closure of the MacArthur Lock forced all traffic to transit the Poe and delayed the delivery of 1.9 million tons of cargo. A report by the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Cyber and Infrastructure Analysis concluded it was “hard to conceive” of a single piece of infrastructure more consequential than the Lock in terms of impact to the economy from an unexpected and sustained breakdown. A six-month closure of the Poe Lock would bring steel production and manufacturing industries to an effective halt. It also could cause Michigan’s unemployment rate to hit 20%.
06.07.2017	Stabenow Statement on President Trump’s Infrastructure Proposal Wednesday, June 07, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following a speech by President Trump today discussing his infrastructure proposal: “I intend to work with President Trump and his Administration on an infrastructure plan that benefits people in Michigan and across the country. It is so important to Michigan that we upgrade our aging Soo Locks and our Great Lakes harbors. We must also provide our small towns and rural communities with the tools they need to succeed, like improved water and sewer systems, broadband access and telemedicine. Rather than making a commitment to rebuilding America’s roads, bridges, and waterways, the Administration’s proposals would put special interests in control of our roads and bridges and propose new tolls for Michigan drivers. These are not ideas I can support.”
06.07.2017	Senators Peters, Stabenow Call for Robust Funding for National Sea Grant College Program Wednesday, June 07, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow joined a bipartisan group of 25 senators in a letter calling for robust funding for the National Sea Grant College Program, which President Trump proposed to eliminate in his fiscal year 2018 budget. The National Sea Grant College Program provides vital support to local businesses and is a crucial resource for Michigan’s coastal communities. “We urge you to reject the administration’s proposed elimination of the National Sea Grant College Program… [and] continue to support at least the current funding level of $63 million,” wrote the bipartisan group of senators. “As senators from some of the 33 states with Sea Grant Programs, we see firsthand how this federal investment is leveraged locally to bring immense returns to coastal communities, fishermen, universities, and students. Any cuts to this funding would have a devastating impact and we strongly urge you to reject any proposals to reduce this program.” The Sea Grant program conducts critical research and economic development work that helps support coastal communities in Michigan. The $67.3 federal investment in the program from fiscal year 2015 yielded a $575 million economic benefit to communities across the country—an 854% return on the federal investment. In 2013, Sea Grant was funded at $57 million and delivered $485 million in economic development, created or retained 3,400 businesses, and created or retained 15,000 jobs nationally. In Michigan, Sea Grant Extension educators live and work in coastal communities around the state to provide scientific expertise and other services to local government and community leaders. In Michigan alone, the estimated economic benefit of Sea Grant activities in 2011 was $1.3 million. Also signing the letter were U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-CT), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Susan Collins (R-ME), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Tom Carper (D-DE), Ed Markey (D-MA), Angus King (I-ME), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Al Franken (D-MN), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Chris Coons (D-DE), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). Full text of the letter is available online and below: The Honorable Richard Shelby The Honorable Jeanne Shaheen Chairman Ranking Member Commerce, Justice, Science and Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Subcommittee Related Agencies Subcommittee Senate Appropriations Committee Senate Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Shelby and Ranking Member Shaheen: As you work to draft the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, we urge you to reject the administration’s proposed elimination of the National Sea Grant College Program. We continue to support at least the current funding level of $63 million. As senators from some of the 33 states with Sea Grant Programs, we see firsthand how this federal investment is leveraged locally to bring immense returns to coastal communities, fishermen, universities, and students. Any cuts to this funding would have a devastating impact and we strongly urge you to reject any proposals to reduce this program. The National Sea Grant College Program is a federal-local partnership that funds 33 university-based research, extension, and education centers. The federal investment of $67.3 million in FY 2015 in these centers yielded $575 million in economic benefit, an 854 percent return on federal investment. This economic impact includes creating and sustaining nearly 3,000 local businesses and more than 20,000 jobs. Marine businesses and fishermen in coastal communities rely on the knowledge and skills of Sea Grant staff and outreach materials. This is evidenced by the 40,243 fishermen that Sea Grant helped to adopt sustainable harvesting techniques. Sea Grant has also helped train 1,956 professionals working in the seafood processing industry in hazard analysis and critical control points. In addition to supporting businesses and jobs in local communities across the country, Sea Grant programs provide innovative research and technologies to help local communities meet new challenges such as coastal resiliency and address long-term goals like habitat restoration or water quality monitoring. In the past year alone, Sea Grant programs conducted 896 trainings to help communities improve resiliency, restored 127,348 acres of degraded ecosystems, and developed 582 ecosystem-based management tools used by 4,033 resource managers. Finally, Sea Grant programs across the country are helping educate the next generation of marine scientists by supporting 1,108 graduate fellows and 860 undergraduate students. Sea Grant programs also engage the public in science through a volunteer program. As a part of this program, local volunteers completed 265,602 volunteer hours with Sea Grant programs in 2015. Sea Grant Programs are vital to local businesses, a source of good jobs, and an important part of preserving our coastal communities for generations to come. We believe zeroing out or reducing funding for the Sea Grant program would be a mistake and urge you to provide robust support for the program in the Fiscal Year 2018 bill.
06.02.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Green Oak Township Fire Department Friday, June 02, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $206,757 for the Green Oak Township Fire Department to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Green Oak Township put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Families in Green Oak Township rely on firefighters to protect their homes, businesses, families and their personal safety from potential hazards,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help firefighters and first responders improve their capability to respond to fires and other critical emergencies.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
06.02.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Wyoming Fire Department Friday, June 02, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $45,644 for the Wyoming Fire Department to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Wyoming put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “It is important that these brave men and women have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs each and every day.” “Families in Wyoming rely on firefighters to protect their homes, businesses, families and their personal safety from potential hazards,” said Senator Peters. “We must support our firefighters and first responders with the equipment to help them respond to fires and other critical emergencies.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
06.02.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in East Tawas and Alpena Friday, June 02, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in East Tawas and Alpena as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Branham’s Jewelry, Tawas Tools, Stoney Acres Winery, and Employment Services, Inc. (ESI). Stabenow’s tour has included over 80 stops in communities across the state including Three Rivers, Fenton, Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “It was great to meet the resilient and innovative business owners in East Tawas and Alpena who help keep our economy in Michigan growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “It is truly inspiring to talk to those who have invested their own time, capital and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” “It was a pleasure having Senator Stabenow here to see our facility,” said Amy Gagnon, Stoney Acres Winery Manager. “We work closely with the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary to create our ‘Shipwreck Soda’ and what I liked most about her visit here was that we got a chance to talk about how taking funding away from the sanctuary will hurt the local economy and hurt our efforts to bring awareness to the Great Lakes.” "Senator Stabenow had a nice visit to our jewelry store," said Ken Branham, President, and Co-Owner of Branham's Jewelry. "I appreciate her promise to help us navigate the process and fight for small businesses." “We appreciated Senator Stabenow’s visit. We are working hard to partner with local schools to overcome the shortage of qualified candidates for good-paying manufacturing jobs in our area,” said Brian VanWormer, Corporate Representative at Employment Services, Inc. “We had some good discussion regarding promotion of skilled trades education and manufacturing careers among high school students. Solutions to these problems vary from region to region, so it’s important that more control of educational funding be handled at the local level.” “It was a pleasure meeting U.S. Senator Stabenow during her visit to Northeast Michigan,” said Jeffery L. Lawton, President, and COO of Star Cutter Company. “We appreciate her taking the time to stop by and visit our StarSU - Tawas Tool Facility in East Tawas, MI. The timing couldn’t have been better as our parent company, Star Cutter, is celebrating our 90th anniversary as a family owned Michigan based manufacturer of precision cutting tools, carbide preforms, and CNC machine tools. We greatly appreciated her willingness to participate in a roundtable discussion based on challenges we are faced with that are related to developing skilled trades and workforce development. We specifically addressed concerns about the proposed Section 232 protectionist measures effecting our steel supply as well as the ongoing challenges of escalating healthcare costs and the future of the Affordable Care Act. As we continue to compete domestically and globally, all US manufacturing companies need to engage in finding solutions to remain competitive and work in unison with local and federal governments to be viable employers to the people and communities that we serve in the great state of Michigan.” ###
06.02.2017	Michigan Congressional Delegation Tour Highlights Importance of Soo Locks to Economy, National Security Friday, June 02, 2017 Seven Members of Michigan’s Congressional Delegation were joined by Governor Rick Snyder on a bipartisan tour of the Soo Locks. The tour highlighted the importance of the Locks to our state and country’s economy and national security. Members also discussed the critical need to upgrade and build a replacement lock, ensuring this vital gateway for commerce and jobs remains open. The Soo Locks facility is comprised of four parallel locks – the Poe, the MacArthur, the Sabin, and the Davis. Today, only the Poe and MacArthur Locks are operational. Only the Poe Lock is large enough to handle 70 percent of the cargo that passes through the Locks. There have been no comprehensive improvements to the Soo Locks facility in nearly 50 years. Approximately 80 million tons of iron ore, coal, stone, grain, and other commercial commodities pass through the locks annually. “Our delegation continues to work together on areas of common interest to benefit Michigan, like supporting important upgrades to the aging Soo Locks,” said Senator Stabenow. “The Locks are the gateway for Great Lakes freighters carrying materials our manufacturers and military depend on and important agriculture products. We know that even a temporary failure of the Locks would have a devastating effect on our economy. It’s time we pass my bipartisan legislation authorizing Congress to fund a new replacement Lock.” "The Soo Locks are critical to economic growth here in Michigan and across the country,” said Congressman Upton. “Great Lakes freighters carry goods that fuel our manufacturing and agricultural sectors every single day. A failure of the Locks would be unacceptable. I look forward to working closely with my Michigan colleagues on both sides of the aisle as we work together to provide vital infrastructure updates and needed resources for a new lock." "I have been emphasizing the importance of building a new lock for the last several years, conveying the need for this funding to Congress and the White House as often as I can," said Governor Snyder. "I appreciate having seven members of Congress here today. It demonstrates a strong bipartisan commitment to making this a priority for federal funding." “Our country depends on the Soo Locks to transport nearly 80 million tons of goods and raw materials every year, and even a temporary shutdown can have devastating consequences to Michigan and the country,” said Senator Peters. “We cannot build our future on the investments our grandparents made in the past. I’m proud to work with my colleagues in the Michigan congressional delegation to authorize the funding needed to make necessary upgrades to the Soo Locks.” “Great Lakes shipping has a significant economic impact on the Port of Monroe in my district, the entire state of Michigan, and the country as a whole,” said Congressman Walberg. “The Soo Locks are a critical gateway in transporting products across the region, and a disruption in operations would be damaging for our economy and harm millions of jobs. Modernizing the Soo Locks has been put off for too long, and I'm delighted to work in a bipartisan way to finally get this project done.” "Transporting billions of dollars of goods annually, the functionality of the deteriorating Soo Locks is critical to Michigan's economy, our national economy, and our national security," said Congressman Trott. "My Michigan colleagues and I, along with the Governor, aren't sitting on the sidelines. We're taking a hands-on approach to ensuring this economic lifeline can accommodate 21st Century freighters and support good paying jobs for hardworking Michigan families." "Soo Locks modernization is a national priority. The project has been gaining momentum for years, and now--finally--we have the leadership we need at every level to push forward and get this done,” said Congressman Bergman. “I'm proud to join Senator Stabenow and a bipartisan majority of the Michigan delegation in introducing legislation that will boost our economy and protect our national security. We can't wait any longer to invest in Michigan's future. The time is now." In 2015, the MacArthur Lock experienced a scheduled outage when a faulty gate mechanism forced a rare mid-shipping season shutdown that closed the lock for 20 days while crews performed repairs. The closure of the MacArthur Lock forced all traffic to transit the Poe and delayed the delivery of 1.9 million tons of cargo. A report by the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Cyber and Infrastructure Analysis concluded it was “hard to conceive” of a single piece of infrastructure more consequential than the Lock in terms of impact to the economy from an unexpected and sustained breakdown. A six-month closure of the Poe Lock would bring steel production and manufacturing industries to an effective halt.
06.01.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Flint Township Fire Department Thursday, June 01, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $275,910 for the Flint Township Fire Department to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Flint Township put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Families in Flint Township rely on firefighters to protect their homes, businesses, families and their personal safety from potential hazards,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help Flint’s firefighters and first responders improve their capability to respond to fires and other critical emergencies.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.26.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $780,000 in Support for Mid-Michigan Fire Departments Friday, May 26, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $786,887 for fire departments in Mid-Michigan to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. The Dewitt Township Fire Department has been awarded a $674,910 regional grant to be used throughout Clinton County. The Somerset Township Fire Department has been awarded a $60,667 grant. The Benton Township Fire Department has been awarded a $13,810 grant. The Jackson Fire Department has been awarded a $37,500 grant. “Our firefighters and first responders in Mid-Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Mid-Michigan’s firefighters put themselves in harm's way to help protect their community, and we should do everything we can to keep them safe in the line of duty,” said Senator Peters. “These grants will help ensure that firefighters and first responders across Mid-Michigan get the tools and training they need to stay safe while on the job.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.26.2017	ICYMI: Senator Stabenow Questions OMB Director Mulvaney on Trump’s Budget Cuts to the Great Lakes (VIDEO) Friday, May 26, 2017 During a hearing in the Senate Budget Committee on the President’s 2018 Budget, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) questioned OMB Director Mick Mulvaney about zeroing out funding for the Great Lakes in Fiscal Year 2018. Video of the exchange is available here and a transcript is included below. To watch the full hearing, click here. Senator Stabenow: “I have tremendous concerns about a wide variety of issues in the budget and how they don’t match up with priorities of Michigan families. But I want to talk about one that has caused terrific concern in Michigan and all around the Great Lakes. And that is the question of completely eliminating the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative which funds the cleanup of our beaches, protecting our fish and wildlife. “We have challenges with Asian carp right now getting into the waters that are funded through the initiative which is a bipartisan effort we started in 2010. We have about 40 million people that get their drinking water from the great lakes. I could go through all of it: boating, fishing, hunting, jobs connected with the economy. “So you eliminate all the funding to protect the Great Lakes and then on top of that have gone into this farm bill to eliminate a voluntary conservation effort to protect watersheds that we are now having great success with partnering with farmers and conservation groups like Ducks Unlimited and other groups to address runoff and water quality issues in the Great Lakes. So on behalf of Michigan families, I would like to know why you think it's not important to protect our water?” Mr. Mulvaney: “Thank you, Senator. I begin by saying we absolutely agree. In fact, they had a chance yesterday in the House to point out that it might be news to people but there are Democrats that care about national defense and Republicans who care about clean air and water. So I think starting from a premise that we don't care about clean air and water is a difficult premise to accept and start the conversation.” Senator Stabenow: “Well then explain why your budget zeros out dollars that allow us to protect our Great Lakes.” Mr. Mulvaney: “Consistent with many other things that we did across the budget Senator, we look at programs that should be local. Programs that are more appropriately local in nature as opposed to national in nature. Again, go back to the original premise. I’m looking at this through the eyes of someone in Arkansas. Can I really look them in the eye and say I need to take some of your tax money to go do something in Michigan or Wisconsin?” Senator Stabenow: “Yes, that is called having a country, with all due respect. 20 percent of the world's freshwater surrounds Michigan and eight other Great Lakes states and this is something that we not only do in the state and by the community but it is a major national resource. The idea that we would not recognize that in this budget is just stunning to me.” ###
05.25.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Support for City of Flint Fire Department Thursday, May 25, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded $267,069 for the City of Flint Fire Department to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Flint put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Flint's firefighters put themselves in harm's way to help protect their community, and we should do everything we can to keep them safe in the line of duty,” said Senator Peters. “This grant will help ensure that firefighters and first responders in Flint get the tools and training they need to stay safe while on the job.” “With the completion of the Fire Training Academy, the timing of this award is perfect,” said Flint Fire Chief Raymond Barton. “This safety equipment is much needed and will help adequately outfit our fire fighters and allow us to open Station 8 on Atherton Rd. fully staffed and equipped. We appreciate Senators Stabenow and Peters, Congressman Kildee as well as our Mayor and State Representative for their support.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.24.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce New Pipeline Safety Legislation Wednesday, May 24, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today introduced a package of bills that would increase pipeline safety in and around the Great Lakes and account for the unique needs of the Great Lakes ecosystem. The bills announced today would raise liability caps for Great Lakes pipeline operators; expand and clarify U.S. Secretary of Transportation’s authority to suspend or shut down unsafe oil pipelines; strengthen federal review of oil spill response plans; increase transparency surrounding oil spill response and clean up plans; and create a Center for Expertise in the Great Lakes region to study freshwater oil spills. “The Great Lakes ecosystem is unlike any other in the world, and many existing pipeline safety rules and regulations do not adequately protect this precious resource from a disastrous oil spill,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. “Senator Stabenow and I are working together to hold Great Lakes pipeline operators to the highest standards and help protect against the catastrophic consequences of a worst-case spill that would endanger our environment and the multi-billion shipping, tourism and fishing industries supported by the Great Lakes.” “We cannot allow another devastating pipeline break like the one that dumped a million gallons of oil in to the Kalamazoo River in 2010,” said Senator Stabenow. “The bills we are announcing today will help protect the Great Lakes and other areas in Michigan from future spills by requiring stronger safeguards and oversight of oil pipelines.” The provisions Peters and Stabenow introduced today include: Increasing liabilities for oil spill clean-up and damages: Pipelines crossing the Great Lakes, including Enbridge’s Line 5 underneath the Straits of Mackinac, are currently classified as “onshore” despite crossing through miles of open water and are thus held to less stringent regulatory standards than offshore pipelines. The Peters-Stabenow bill would create a special classification for Great Lakes pipelines so they are held to the same stringent liability standards as offshore pipelines, meaning operators would be responsible for covering all oil spill clean up costs, up to $133.65 million in economic damages and providing proof of financial ability. Last year, Senators Peters and Stabenow sent a letter to former Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx urging him to classify pipelines crossing the Great Lakes as offshore. Expanding DOT emergency authority to shut down pipelines: This legislation will build on legislation signed into law last year expanding the Secretary of Transportation’s emergency authority to shutdown pipelines in the case of an unsafe conditions. This would include a violation of established operating conditions; inadequate capabilities to respond to a potential incident; or inadequate financial resources to cover costs associated with clean-up and damages for a potential incident. U.S. Coast Guard and EPA review of oil spill response plans: This Stabenow-Peters bill would require both the U.S. Coast Guard and EPA - the two primary federal agencies responsible for oil spill response and clean up - to review oil pipeline operator response plans that are submitted to the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA). Currently, both agencies have the option to review these plans but are not required to by law. Increasing transparency: Currently, the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA) is responsible for collecting, reviewing, and storing pieces of information from pipeline operators – such as facility response plans – that are available through cumbersome and costly Freedom of Information Act requests. Under the new legislation, PHMSA would be required to make facility response plans available online, where they can be more easily reviewed, while still protecting propriety and sensitive security information through exclusion at the Secretary of Transportation’s discretion. U.S. Coast Guard Center for Expertise for Great Lakes: Last week, the Commerce Committee passed Peters-led amendment to create a U.S. Coast Guard Center of Expertise in the Great Lakes focused on studying the impacts of oil spills in freshwater environments. Most current oil spill response technologies were developed for saltwater environments and are less effective in freshwater. The Coast Guard has previously established several Centers of Expertise (COEs) on topics ranging from liquefied gas shipping to towing vessel issues to offshore safety. These actions build on previous efforts by Senators Peters and Stabenow to increase pipeline safety in the Great Lakes. In 2015, Peters and Stabenow introduced legislation to strengthen pipeline oversight and improve response plans for oil spills under ice-covered waters. These provisions were included in the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act, or PIPES Act, which was signed into law by President Obama last year.
05.24.2017	Stabenow Statement on CBO Score of Trumpcare Wednesday, May 24, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement on the Congressional Budget Office’s score of Trumpcare that shows 23 million people would lose health insurance: “Today’s non-partisan report confirms once again that Trumpcare is a bad deal for Michigan families. It raises costs and takes us back to the days when insurance companies were in charge of your health care. If you or your family member has a “preexisting condition” like cancer, pregnancy, or diabetes, you could lose coverage or be forced to pay a lot more. I’m ready to work across the aisle to lower costs and improve care for Michigan families, but this plan makes people pay more for less.
05.23.2017	Stabenow Statement on Trump Budget Request that Eliminates Great Lakes Funding Tuesday, May 23, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following news that President Trump’s full budget request for the 2018 fiscal year still completely eliminates funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: “It’s official—President Trump’s 2018 budget zeros out funding for our Great Lakes. Thanks to thousands of people across Michigan speaking out, we already stopped cuts for this year. This is a moment for Michigan when we all need to stand together to protect our Great Lakes.” The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which Senator Stabenow authored in 2010, is critical to supporting jobs, fighting invasive species, and protecting the Michigan way of life. Earlier this month, Senator Stabenow led the bipartisan effort to successfully pass full funding for the Great Lakes for the remainder of fiscal year 2017.
05.23.2017	Stabenow Statement Following DeVos Speech Outlining Massive Cuts to Public Education Tuesday, May 23, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following a speech by Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos outlining a proposal to make massive cuts to public education: “Parents’ worst fears were realized today when Secretary Betsy DeVos outlined the Trump Administration’s plan to shift billions of dollars away from our nation’s public schools. These policies have already failed children and families in Michigan and now Secretary DeVos wants to implement them nationwide. Instead of working cooperatively to improve our schools, this administration is playing politics with the future of our children.”
05.19.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Saugatuck Township Fire District Friday, May 19, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $41,885 for the Saugatuck Township Fire District to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Saugatuck put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “We rely on our firefighters to protect our communities in the event of an emergency, and we must provide them with the right equipment to stay safe while on the job,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to announce this grant for Saugatuck Township that will help to keep our brave firefighters and Michiganders safe.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.19.2017	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Friday, May 19, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $458,666 for two fire departments in Southeast Michigan to help purchase equipment. The grants come from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. The Ypsilanti City Fire Department has been awarded $451,237, and the Armada Township Fire Department has been awarded $7,429. “Our firefighters in Southeast Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “We rely on our firefighters to protect our communities in the event of an emergency, and we must provide them with the right equipment to stay safe while on the job,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to announce these awards for Ypsilanti and Armada Township that will help to keep our brave firefighters and Michiganders safe.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.18.2017	Stabenow Statement on Trump Administration’s NAFTA Renegotiation Notice Thursday, May 18, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s NAFTA renegotiation notice: “In the 23 years since NAFTA was signed, our country has lost too many good-paying manufacturing jobs to other countries. No other state has felt the pain of those losses more than Michigan. Given NAFTA’s importance to our workers, our farmers, and our economy, a modernization is long overdue. As we move forward, we need to make sure that any changes to NAFTA lead to an improvement in our quality of life and higher incomes, not a race to the bottom.”
05.18.2017	Stabenow, Peters & Alexander Reintroduce Vehicle Innovation Act Thursday, May 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today announced they are reintroducing the bipartisan Vehicle Innovation Act to encourage investments in research and development of clean vehicle and advanced safety technologies to increase fuel efficiency and reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil. In the 114th Congress, Senators Peters, Stabenow and Alexander introduced similar legislation, which was approved by the U.S. Senate as part of the Energy Policy Modernization Act. “Michigan manufacturers are some of the best in the world. This bill will help our manufacturers innovate and develop new products, which will create jobs and give consumers more choices,” said Senator Stabenow. “Michigan and the United States are leading the way in developing innovative technologies that will make the next generation of cars and trucks safer and more efficient than ever before,” said Senator Peters. “This bipartisan bill will help ensure that American manufacturers remain internationally competitive by encouraging the development of cutting-edge clean vehicle technologies that improve fuel efficiency, save consumers money and help support American jobs.” “The Department of Energy’s research to make cars and trucks more fuel efficient, to improve electric vehicles and batteries and to develop alternative fuels will benefit Tennessee’s auto industry which supports jobs in 86 of our 95 counties,” said Senator Alexander. “More than one-third of Tennessee manufacturing jobs are auto-related and investment in new vehicle technologies will continue to attract good-paying jobs to Tennessee.” The Vehicle Innovation Act strengthens and streamlines the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Vehicle Technologies Office, which promotes public-private partnerships to conduct technology-neutral research and development on a diverse range of new technologies to improve fuel efficiency in light, medium and heavy duty vehicles. The bill will support domestic research and development, grow our advanced manufacturing industry in the United States, and reduce our dependence on imported oil. Examples of potential fuel-saving technologies include vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2X) communications, mild hybrid, engine down speeding, power pack modeling and testing, advanced boosting systems, new vehicle sensing and communication, hydrogen and natural gas refueling and electric vehicle charging technology. The legislation also authorizes critical resources for the Vehicle Technologies Office to encourage research, including $313.6 million in funding for the FY2018, and a four percent increase to each year after that through 2022, to ensure steady funding is available to help manufacturers keep pace with emerging advanced technologies that have the potential to reduce fuel costs in the national vehicle fleet. The legislation is supported by the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association, the Auto Alliance, UAW, the BlueGreen Alliance, and NTEA—The Association for the Work Truck Industry. “Hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs across America depend on continuing to strengthen US leadership in inventing, commercializing and manufacturing advanced transportation technology,” said Kim Glas, Executive Director of the BlueGreen Alliance. “Cutting-edge vehicle technology and manufacturing programs at the Department of Energy enhance American competitiveness and help ensure that the next generation of technology and jobs are built in the US. We thank Senator Peters and his co-sponsors for introducing this bill to bolster American innovation, competitiveness and growth.” “The Auto Alliance applauds Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Alexander for the reintroduction of the Vehicle Innovation Act,” said Mitch Bainwol, Auto Alliance president and CEO. “Automakers are focused on the deployment of advanced technology and alternative fuel vehicles to help address our nation’s energy security and environmental concerns. The next generation of fuel-efficient technologies requires significant investments in research, design, development, testing and certification as they are developed and refined for use on the various types of vehicles needed by American consumers. This legislation will help ensure that our industry partners throughout the vast automotive supply chain are supported in the research on and development of these advanced technologies.” “NTEA commends Senators Stabenow, Peters and Alexander’s commitment to the motor vehicle industry. Vocational truck users are at the forefront of integrating advanced technologies and alternative fuels but the future will require greater advances,” said Steve Carey, executive director with NTEA - The Association for the Work Truck Industry. “This legislation will help industry partner with government to accomplish the goals of a cleaner and more efficient work truck industry.” “The Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) applauds Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Alexander for the introduction of the Vehicle Innovation Act. The important research and development called for in this legislation supports the necessary activities for more fuel efficient advanced technology components. These domestic research and manufacturing activities will improve vehicle fuel efficiency and reduce emissions. They will also help consumers by increasing choices in vehicle technologies and fuels,” said Steve Handschuh, President and Chief Executive Officer of MEMA.
05.17.2017	Stabenow Statement on Appointment of Robert Mueller as Special Counsel in Russia Investigation Wednesday, May 17, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following news that the Justice Department has named former FBI Director Robert Mueller to serve as special counsel in the Russia investigation: “I welcome the news that the Justice Department has appointed a special counsel to look into ties between President Trump’s campaign and Russia. Former FBI Director Robert Mueller is a highly qualified and well-respected law enforcement official who served both Presidents Bush and Obama. I encourage him to move quickly to examine the facts and conduct a thorough investigation. The American people deserve answers so we can move forward and focus on jobs and the other critical challenges facing our families and communities.”
05.16.2017	Senator Stabenow Receives Praise and Recognition from Small Business Council of America Tuesday, May 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow was presented with the Small Business Council of America’s Special Congressional Achievement award during the 34th Annual Congressional Awards Reception. Stabenow was recognized for her tireless work as a member of the Senate Budget and Finance Committees and her continued role as a champion of small businesses. She is only the 6th member of Congress to ever receive this award. Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for small businesses, cutting taxes and increasing access to capital for entrepreneurs to help them expand and create jobs. Over the past year, she has visited over 80 small businesses during her Small Business Tour across the state. “Small businesses owners invest their own time, capital and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful,” said Senator Stabenow. “I appreciate this recognition and will continue to do everything I can to empower these entrepreneurs and ensure they have the resources they need to be successful.” “Senator Stabenow has always been a great friend of the small business community,” said SBCA President, Gary Kushner of Kalamazoo, Michigan. “From the time I started working with her in the Michigan Legislature, to the US House of Representatives, and now in the US Senate, Senator Stabenow has always had an open door and an open ear to hearing the issues of highest concern to small businesses in manufacturing, retailing, 'Mom and Pops', and professional service firms.” As a senior member of the Finance Committee, Senator Stabenow led the effort to extend important tax cuts for manufacturers, startups, and other small businesses. Stabenow successfully worked to create the State Small Business Credit Initiative to promote lending to small businesses. She has also introduced legislation to provide additional funding for this program that would help small businesses to access the capital they need to grow and create jobs. ###
05.16.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Support for Four West Michigan Fire Departments Tuesday, May 16, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded $479,055 for four West Michigan fire departments to help purchase self-contained breathing apparatuses. The regional award will be shared by Algoma Township Fire Department, Sparta Fire Department, Rockford Fire Department, and Courtland Township Fire Department. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in West Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Our brave firefighters need access to the right training and equipment to stay safe on the job,” said Senator Peters. “This assistance will help fire departments in West Michigan ensure that firefighters and first responders are prepared to handle dangerous situations and keep our communities safe.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.11.2017	Stabenow, Peters Call on Trump Administration to Protect Worker and Retiree Pensions Thursday, May 11, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today led a group of 14 Senators outlining the importance of protecting pensions for workers and retirees. The Senators requested information from the Administration on its plan to address critical issues in the multiemployer pension system. “As you may know, millions of American workers and retirees - through no fault of their own - are at risk of losing a substantial portion of their pensions because their plans are at imminent risk of becoming insolvent and being unable to pay earned benefits on time and in full,” wrote the Senators. “Some multiemployer pension plans across the country, including Central States with its more than 400,000 participants, are in dire financial situations.” “Accordingly, we write to request clarity regarding the Administration’s plans to address critical issues in the pension system: Does the Administration intend to release a plan to protect American workers and retirees and improve the security of our multiemployer pension system? If so, what is the timeline for the release of this plan? Do you commit to making your participation on the PBGC’s Board of Directors a priority? Does the Trump Administration intend to work with pension plans to improve their funding before the plans approach insolvency?” The letter was sent to Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin, Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta, and Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and signed by the following Senators, in addition to Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters: Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), , Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Bob Casey (D-Penn.), and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.). The full text of the letter may be found below and a PDF is attached. May 11, 2017 Hon. Steven Mnuchin Hon. Alexander Acosta Secretary of Treasury Secretary of Labor 15th Street, NW 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 Washington, DC 20210 Hon. Wilbur Ross Secretary of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Secretaries Mnuchin, Acosta, and Ross: We write today to seek information regarding your plans to improve the security of our multiemployer pension system for American workers and retirees. As you may know, millions of American workers and retirees - through no fault of their own - are at risk of losing a substantial portion of their pensions because their plans are at imminent risk of becoming insolvent and being unable to pay earned benefits on time and in full. Some multiemployer pension plans across the country, including Central States with its more than 400,000 participants, are in dire financial situations. Even worse, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), the federal agency that insures the retirement incomes of the millions of American workers who participate in multiemployer pension plans, projects that its insurance program for these types of plans could itself become insolvent as early as 2025. Absent action by the Trump Administration and Congress, the financial stability of the PBGC will be compromised and the retirement benefits American workers and retirees were promised will face deep—and in some cases catastrophic—cuts. The Secretaries of the Treasury, Commerce, and Labor serve on the Board of Directors for PBGC, which requires strong and stable leadership to ensure that it can meet its future financial challenges. Through your role on this Board, you have the important responsibility of addressing the security of our pension system and developing a long-term strategy to fund and stabilize the PBGC. As the head of your agency, you also control resources that can be devoted to ensuring that workers receive the benefits they have earned through their lifetime of hard work, and are in a position to put forth proposals to ensure that these benefits are protected. Cuts in promised retirement income that leave retirees unable to afford to pay for their homes, let alone pay for their prescriptions or put food on their tables, are not the answer. Accordingly, we write to request clarity regarding the Administration’s plans to address critical issues in the pension system: Does the Administration intend to release a plan to protect American workers and retirees and improve the security of our multiemployer pension system? If so, what is the timeline for the release of this plan? Do you commit to making your participation on the PBGC’s Board of Directors a priority? Does the Trump Administration intend to work with pension plans to improve their funding before the plans approach insolvency? Thank you for your prompt attention to these important issues for American workers and retirees.
05.11.2017	Senator Stabenow Votes to Confirm Robert Lighthizer as U.S. Trade Representative Thursday, May 11, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released the following statement after voting to confirm Robert Lighthizer as the next United States Trade Representative: “Robert Lighthizer has decades of international trade experience that I expect him to use to hold countries like China accountable when they violate our trade laws and hurt our Michigan workers and businesses. I look forward to working with him on a trade agenda that levels the playing field for our workers and manufacturers and creates new opportunities for our farmers to export their products.”
05.11.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $500,000 in Support for Five Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, May 11, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $505,964 for five fire departments in Southeast Michigan to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. Lincoln Park Fire Department has been awarded an $85,455 grant. Waterford Regional Fire Department has been awarded a $250,091 grant. Dearborn Heights Fire Department has been awarded a $63,637 grant. Kenockee Township Fire Department has been awarded a $20,953 grant. Bloomfield Township Fire Department has been awarded an $85,828 grant. “Our firefighters in Southeast Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Our brave firefighters need access to the right training and equipment to stay safe on the job,” said Senator Peters. “This assistance will help fire departments across Southeast Michigan ensure that firefighters and first responders are prepared to handle dangerous situations and keep our communities safe.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.06.2017	Ranking Member Stabenow Hosts Farm Bill Field Hearing in Michigan Saturday, May 06, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry, today released the following opening statement – as prepared for delivery – at the Farm Bill field hearing in Frankenmuth, Mich. entitled: Growing Jobs and Economic Opportunity: Perspectives on the 2018 Farm Bill from Michigan. Stabenow’s statement, as prepared for delivery, follows: First, I’d like to thank our witnesses for taking time out of their weekend to be with us for this important hearing. And I want to say thank you to Chairman Roberts for once again making the trip to our beautiful state and spending time with some of Michigan’s amazing agricultural, conservation and local food leaders. Mr. Chairman, I know that Kansas farmers have had a rough start to the year with both wildfires and more recently a late season blizzard that decimated your wheat crop. And I'm so pleased that I was able to introduce you to some of our very generous Michigan farmers who donated their time and resources to deliver hay to Kansas ranchers after the devastating wildfire earlier this spring. Please know that Kansas farmers have the support of everyone here today. Whether it’s a wildfire or late frost in Kansas, or a warm winter or hail storm in Michigan, farmers more than anyone else know the danger that weather changes pose. In fact, as I always say, agriculture is the riskiest business there is. No other business is so dependent on the weather report for their success But farmers also have grit, determination, and passion for what they do and for that we are all very grateful. Mr. Chairman, I know that you and I and our Senate Committee will follow the example of these farmers and keep all of agriculture working together so that we can continue building our Farm Bill coalition and pass a 2018 Farm Bill. Everyone who came here today understands how important the Farm Bill is in Michigan. But many people outside of agriculture don’t know just how critical the Farm Bill is to our economy. I’ve always said that we don’t have an economy unless we make things and grow things – and the Farm Bill plays an important role in that. The food and agriculture economy supports 16 million jobs across the country. Here in Michigan, agriculture is our state’s second largest industry, supporting 1 out of every 4 jobs. We last passed a Farm Bill in 2014—signed by President Obama right here in Michigan. And I made sure that Michigan was reflected on every page. The bill made responsible, bipartisan reforms to streamline more than 100 programs and save taxpayers billions more than expected. The Bill goes a long way to support Michigan families who have been growing food for many generations through expanded crop insurance. But it also creates new opportunities for beginning farmers to enter the field, including our veterans. It helps our $720 million specialty crop industry access stronger risk management tools to protect their crops from future disasters. It connects our producers to new markets to sell locally to their neighbors, and also around the world. It invigorates the economies of small towns and rural communities through bio-based manufacturing and upgraded infrastructure. It helps to put food on the table for families who have fallen on hard times. It brings tourism dollars to our state through significant investments in conservation that protect our Great Lakes and waterways. It supports cutting-edge research to advance and safeguard our food and agriculture economy, like the groundbreaking work that’s happening right here at MSU’s extension. Congress considers the Farm Bill only once every five years – and the 2014 Farm Bill that has done so much for our state is set to expire next fall. Just as in the last bill, Michigan will continue to have a voice in the Farm Bill process from start to finish. Going into the 2018 Farm Bill, we know things have changed over the past few years. Low prices have pinched margins and made it tough for many producers to make ends meet. Right off the bat, we know we need to strengthen our farm safety net – particularly for our dairy farmers. Throughout the process, I will again be focused on the needs of Michigan producers and our state’s small towns and rural communities, like my hometown of Clare. The CBO estimates that the Farm Bill will save $80 billion more than we expected, primarily because the economy is getting better and fewer people need food assistance. We know the Farm Bill has done more than its fair share to reduce the deficit. Any further cuts would be detrimental to farmers and families. That's why over 500 groups, including some of the groups represented here today, agree that we should not make new cuts to the Farm Bill. Writing a Farm Bill is no simple task. And we certainly can’t do it alone, which is why we are all here today. Throughout the hearing, we’ll hear from a wide variety of witnesses who reflect our state’s unique food and farm economy. Believe it or not -- many people outside of Michigan don’t think of us as a farm state. But we in Michigan take great pride in our agricultural diversity. If you grew up eating chocolate covered cherries at the Cherry Festival, and picking from the wide variety of fruits and vegetables our farmers markets have to offer, or driving along highways flanked by sugar beet, corn, dry beans and soybean fields – you know what our state is capable of growing. Michigan is the second most diverse state in the country in terms of what we grow. And the strength of our agricultural economy is rooted in that diversity. We were able to make sure Michigan agriculture was strongly represented in the last Farm Bill thanks to the support and input we received and the broad coalition that came together to support our comprehensive, bipartisan bill. In order to ensure Michigan continues to have a strong voice in the process, we will need to continue the tradition of working together to support our jobs, farmers and families. I'm confident we can achieve that goal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
05.04.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement on House Passage of American Health Care Act Thursday, May 04, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to advance the American Health Care Act: “I’m committed to working across the aisle to lower health care costs for Michigan families and small businesses, make prescription drugs more affordable, and improve care for middle-class families. House Republicans instead passed a plan today that would raise costs for Michigan families, eliminate protections if you or a family member has a preexisting condition like cancer or a heart condition, and take us back to the days when insurance companies were in charge of your health care. I will strongly oppose this plan in the Senate.”
05.03.2017	Peters, Stabenow Announce Funding for Economic Development in West Michigan Wednesday, May 03, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission will receive a $210,000 grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to help spur economic development in West Michigan. “Strong regional coordination helps attract new businesses and new jobs to West Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to announce this funding, which will help ensure the West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission can continue investing in the communities they serve to boost economic development and growth in West Michigan.” “I applaud the efforts of these West Michigan communities in working together to create jobs and a stronger economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “This investment will help strengthen this cooperation and build on the region’s success in fostering economic growth.” “We are pleased to have been awarded the EDA Partnership Planning grant,” said Erin Kuhn, Executive Director of the West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission. “Over the past 45 years, much of the economic infrastructure in West Michigan has been developed through this collaborative process. We look forward to continuing our economic development efforts in West Michigan.” The award supports the development and implementation of a Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS), which is designed to bring together the public and private sectors to create an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen regional economies. The West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission will use the funding to work with local communities within the five-county region they serve, including Lake, Mason, Muskegon, Newaygo and Oceana Counties. The award will help support the creation of a collaborative economic development strategy that identifies regional goals and objectives, and regionally significant economic development projects. The West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission will also provide technical assistance to help implement selected projects.
05.03.2017	Federal Funding Bill Includes Stabenow’s Legislation to Reinstate Year-Round Pell Grants Wednesday, May 03, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that the fiscal year 2017 federal appropriations bill includes her legislation to reinstate Year-Round Pell Grants for college students in Michigan and across the country. Stabenow’s bill includes provisions that will allow low and moderate income students to use Pell Grants for three semesters each academic year, rather than the current law’s limit of two semesters. “I am committed to supporting the 257,000 students in Michigan who rely on Pell Grants to afford a college education,” said Senator Stabenow. “This bill will provide more students with a fair shot to go to college and get ahead, regardless of their financial situation.” Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow joined Senator Hirono (D-Hawaii) in sponsoring the Year-Round Pell Grant Restoration Act with Senators Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), and Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.). Before Congress cut Year-Round Pell Grants in 2011, over one million students across the country, including close to 35,000 in Michigan, used Pell Grants to pay for college for three semesters in an academic year. Research shows that students who take courses continuously over the summer were three times more likely to complete a degree.
05.02.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Small Business Tour in Three Rivers Tuesday, May 02, 2017 Last weekend, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow continued her Michigan small business tour in Three Rivers. Senator Stabenow toured MVB Improvements, Parker Jewelers and PinUp Salon. After last weekend’s stops Senator Stabenow’s tour has visited over 80 small businesses in Michigan. “The community in Three Rivers truly knows the definition of hard work and it is clear the focus here is on empowering small business,” said Senator Stabenow. “It is truly inspiring to talk to those who have invested their own time, capital and ideas into making their businesses and their community successful.” “It was a great honor to have Senator Stabenow visit our local businesses, especially Historic Downtown Three Rivers,” said Darrell Parker, Owner of Parker Jewelers. “Three Rivers has a lot to offer and it means a great deal to me for her to offer her time and recognize the hard work that I and my associates are putting into the store and my community.” “It’s so great that Senator Stabenow is taking an interest in small businesses like mine,” said Danielle Hinman, Owner of PinUp Salon. “It was a pleasure having her at PinUp!’” Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for small businesses, cutting taxes and increasing access to capital for entrepreneurs to help them expand and create jobs. As a senior member of the Finance Committee, Senator Stabenow led the effort last year to extend important tax cuts for manufacturers, startups, and other small businesses. She introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs. ###
05.01.2017	Stabenow Statement on Bipartisan Effort to Protect Great Lakes Funding in Fiscal Year 2017 Funding Bill Monday, May 01, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, released the following statement on her bipartisan efforts to stop President Trump’s proposed $50 million cut in Great Lakes funding in the Fiscal Year 2017 funding bill: “I am pleased to have successfully led the bipartisan effort to stop President Trump from cutting $50 million in Great Lakes funding this year. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative has always received bipartisan support and is absolutely critical to supporting Michigan jobs and protecting our Great Lakes, including fishing, boating, hunting and stopping invasive species. As Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, I will continue working with my colleagues across the aisle to make sure President Trump’s plan to completely eliminate Great Lakes funding next year is stopped.”
04.27.2017	Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Medicare Ambulance Access, Fraud Prevention, and Reform Act to Protect Michigan Seniors’ Access to Ambulance Services Thursday, April 27, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced the Medicare Ambulance Access, Fraud Prevention, and Reform Act, which would make permanent key Medicare reimbursements to ambulance service providers and would ensure seniors and other people in Michigan continue to have access to life-saving services. “Families and seniors in Michigan need to know that they can depend on reliable ambulance service in case of an emergency,” said Senator Stabenow. “That’s why I introduced legislation today to make sure that ambulance providers get the reimbursements they need to continue their vital services for people living in big cities as well as small towns.” "The American Ambulance Association is deeply appreciative of the support of Senator Debbie Stabenow as we work to secure the future of ambulance services in Michigan and across our nation,” said Mark Postma, President of the American Ambulance Association. “We thank Senator Stabenow for her sponsorship of this legislation and look forward to her continued leadership as we move toward fair, sustainable, and future-oriented revenue models for EMS." "On behalf of the ambulance providers of Michigan, I would like to thank Senator Debbie Stabenow for her sponsorship of this new legislation,” said Dale Berry, President of the Michigan Association of Ambulance Services. “We appreciate her dedication to ensuring that ambulance services receive fair reimbursement for the vital health care they provide to our communities." Ambulance service providers are an essential part of our local and national health care and emergency response systems, and are often the only provider of emergency medical services for their communities. There more than 200 ambulance service providers in Michigan, including small businesses, fire departments, hospitals, cities, and counties, that rely on Medicare reimbursements to provide emergency care and support jobs in local communities. Senator Stabenow’s bill makes permanent the 2% urban and 3% rural reimbursement as well as a 25.6% reimbursement for areas that are classified as “super-rural,” meaning they represent the lowest measure of population density. If the Medicare reimbursements are not extended before they expire at the end of 2017, Michigan ambulance providers could lose up to $4 million per year Stabenow’s legislation requires a study on how the reimbursement formula should be adjusted to more appropriately take into account the cost of provider services in urban, rural, and super-rural areas. Her legislation also requires authorization for certain non-emergency ambulance trips in order to combat fraud and waste. U.S. Senators Pat Roberts (R-KS), Susan Collins (R-ME), Pat Leahy (D-VT), and Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) are original sponsors of the legislation. Stabenow’s bill is supported by the American Ambulance Association, National Volunteer Fire Council, the American Hospital Association, the National Rural Health Association, the National Association of EMS Physicians, and The Association of Critical Care Transport.
04.26.2017	Stabenow Joins Group of 19 Senators Calling on Republican Leaders to Focus on Funding for Opioid Crisis and Medical Research Wednesday, April 26, 2017 Today, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) joined a group of 19 senators calling on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to include a substantial increase in funds for the fight against the nation's opioid epidemic and additional investments in the National Institutes of Health (NIH), as part of the Continuing Resolution currently being negotiated in Congress to avert a government shutdown. Last year in Michigan, research funding for the NIH supported 10,817 jobs and $1.7 billion in economic activity. "While past Congresses have made promises about providing states with additional funding to address the ongoing opioid crisis, appropriations legislation like the pending budget deal is where the bill comes due. Americans are counting on Congress to live up to its commitments by supporting funding for the priorities that matter most in their lives", wrote the senators. "Funding to fight the opioid epidemic and support research into lifesaving cures through the NIH rank at the top of this list, and we urge you to include substantial additional funding for these areas in the appropriations legislation now being negotiated." The senators asked for additional resources to address the nation's opioid crisis, particularly those communities which have been hit hardest by the epidemic, noting that only ten percent of people with substance abuse disorder receive specialty treatment due in large part to lack of funding for services. According to the Centers for Disease Control, Michigan had the 7th most drug overdose deaths of any state in 2015, a 13 percent increase from the year before. The senators also called for increased investment in the NIH to support continued biomedical research, citing the institute's critical role in discovering cures for life-threatening diseases and its numerous, valuable contributions to science. The letter was led by Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and signed by Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Tom Udall (D-NM), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Al Franken (D-MN), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), and Maggie Hassan (D-NH). Full text of the letter is available below. April 26, 2017 The Honorable Mitch McConnell Majority Leader U.S. Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Leader McConnell and Speaker Ryan, As negotiations over the latest stopgap government funding measure continue, we urge you to focus on securing substantial funding in the appropriations legislation currently being negotiated for two of our most essential national priorities: fighting the opioid epidemic and investing in our nation's biomedical research programs. Every day, 91 Americans die from an opioid overdose, and despite the tireless work of many in our communities, this public health epidemic is only getting worse. Currently, only 10 percent of individuals who need specialty treatment for substance use disorder actually get it - not because we don't know how to help, but in large part because there aren't enough funds to provide these services. We need substantial additional resources to fight this epidemic and fund prevention, treatment, and recovery activities. It is also essential that we increase our investment in the National Institutes of Health (NIH), our nation's premier research institution. NIH funding supports innovative, cutting-edge research that plays a critical role in the development of lifesaving cures for diseases. Our ability to fight Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and many other diseases depends on our willingness to invest in science. While investments in the NIH have consistently produced tremendous value, funding for the NIH has failed to keep pace with inflation over the last several decades. It is essential to provide new funding to fight the opioid epidemic and support biomedical research at the NIH. This new funding should not fill in for cuts made elsewhere to opioid and NIH funding. It is also essential that opioid funding be distributed to the communities that need it most and that have been hardest hit by this terrible public health epidemic. While past Congresses have made promises about providing states with additional funding to address the ongoing opioid crisis, appropriations legislation like the pending budget deal is where the bill comes due. Americans are counting on Congress to live up to its commitments by supporting funding for the priorities that matter most in their lives. Funding to fight the opioid epidemic and support research into lifesaving cures through the NIH rank at the top of this list, and we urge you to include substantial additional funding for these areas in the appropriations legislation now being negotiated.
04.25.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement Following Great Lakes Task Force Meeting on Asian Carp Tuesday, April 25, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force, released the following statement after a bicameral meeting on near- and long-term measures to prevent Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes, including the status on the Tentatively Selected Plan for the Brandon Road Study: “It’s deeply irresponsible for the Trump Administration to continue to block the Army Corp from releasing a critical plan to permanently address the threat of Asian carp to our Great Lakes. There is no reason to gamble with the future of our Great Lakes because a narrow group of special interests do not recognize that Asian carp is a problem. In our bipartisan, bicameral meeting today, we sent a clear message that it's past time to take action to create a permanent solution to the threat of Asian carp.” Senator Stabenow led the Great Lakes Task Force meeting today, which was attended by officials from the White House, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and U.S. Geological Service. In February, the Trump Administration prevented the Army Corps from releasing the draft plan for stopping further movement of Asian carp in the Illinois River.
04.25.2017	Michigan Delegation Members Join Bipartisan Push to Keep EPA Region 5 Office Open Tuesday, April 25, 2017 Following reports that the Trump Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – which serves Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio – as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters and Representatives John Conyers Jr., Sander Levin, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, and Brenda Lawrence joined a bipartisan push calling for the Region 5 office to remain intact and fully supported. In a bicameral letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, members of Congress from the Great Lakes region stressed the importance of the Great Lakes, which provide 90 percent of the nation’s fresh water supply and are a source of drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. “We write to express our grave concerns regarding reports that the Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment. Accordingly, we request that you commit to preserving EPA Region 5,” the members wrote. The letter was led in the Senate by Senator Dick Durbin and also signed by Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Al Franken (D-MN), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) is leading the House coalition, along with Mike Quigley (D-IL), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Brad Schneider (D-IL), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Bill Foster (D-IL), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Andre Carson (D-IN),), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Danny Davis (D-IL), and Ron Kind (D-WI). Full text of the letter below: April 25, 2017 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We write to express our grave concerns regarding reports that the Administration plans to abolishRegion 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment. Accordingly, we request that you commit to preserving EPA Region 5. EPA’s Chicago office regularly works closely with state and local governments to effectively address the unique challenges and needs of the region, including protecting 90 percent of the nation’s fresh water supply and a significant portion of the Mississippi River watershed from invasive species, harmful algal blooms, and industrial pollution—preserving the source of drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. Region 5 experts were among the first scientists to alert officials to the elevated lead levels in Flint, Michigan’s drinking water. Following the 2014 drinking water ban in Toledo, Ohio due to microcystin contamination from harmful algal blooms, Region 5 assisted Ohio and Michigan in upgrading drinking water treatment facilities to protect citizens in the region. Additionally, as manager of the Great Lakes National Program Office, the EPA Region 5 Administrator plays a key role in ensuring the U.S. meets its international commitments under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. The Office also works with Canada to ensure that the Great Lakes continue to support a $5 trillion economy with more than 51 million jobs. The day-to-day responsibilities of carrying out the Agreement and our promises to Canada would be jeopardized if EPA Region 5 was eliminated. Region 5 is also responsible for more Superfund sites than any other region and EPA Region 5 experts play a vital role in legacy waste clean-up and environmental justice initiatives. You witnessed this firsthand when you toured the USS Lead site in East Chicago, Indiana. EPA Region 5 also maintains staff in each state so that it can quickly respond to chemical spills and other emergencies, like last week’s hexavalent chromium spill at a U.S. Steel Corporation site in Indiana and the 2010 Enbridge oil spill in the Kalamazoo River. Without EPA Region 5’s presence in the area, timely action would have been significantly less likely and these spills could have done more damage to the environment and surrounding communities. While shutting down EPA’s Region 5 Chicago office would make it more difficult and less efficient for the federal government to work in partnership with state and local communities in our region, it is unclear that it would reduce costs to EPA as a whole. Region 5 does not duplicate enforcement or regulatory actions, rather Region 5 allows the EPA to better coordinate federal efforts with state and local governments. In fact, state environmental agencies often rely on EPA Region 5 experts for technical assistance and financial support. More than half of EPA’s budget is sent directly to states to aid in clean-up and other environmental programs. Closing EPA’s Region 5 office would have a devastating effect on those that call Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio home. Therefore, we urge you to protect the environmental health and well-being of our states by keeping Region 5 intact and fully supporting its critical mission.
04.24.2017	Senator Stabenow Attends 46th ACCESS Annual Dinner Monday, April 24, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended the 46th ACCESS Annual Dinner in Detroit on April 22nd. The theme of this year’s dinner was “From the Neighborhood to the Nation” and brought together nearly 2,000 community members as well as local, state and national officials and leaders.
04.24.2017	Senator Stabenow Attends 62nd Annual Fight For Freedom Fund Dinner Monday, April 24, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended the 62nd Annual Fight For Freedom Fund Dinner in Detroit on April 23rd. Senator Elizabeth Warren delivered the keynote address and awardees included Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) as well as Former U.S. Attorney General Sally Yates.
04.18.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Cheboygan Life Support Systems Inc. Tuesday, April 18, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $159,773 for the Cheboygan Life Support Systems Inc. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program and will equip ambulances with a power-load cot system to further assist first responders in the line of duty. “Our first responders in Cheboygan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” "Our first responders work hard to keep us safe every day, we owe it to them to make sure they are kept safe on the job as well" said Senator Peters. "I'm pleased to announce this grant that will help provide Cheboygan first responders with the equipment and supplies they need to continue protecting and serving our communities every day." Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.17.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Michigan Bureau of Fire Services Monday, April 17, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $434,783 for the Michigan Bureau of Fire Services Fire Fighter Training Academy. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Firefighters across Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, more brave men and women will have the training they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” "We rely on our firefighters to protect our communities every day, and we must provide them with the right training so they can do their jobs safely and effectively,” said Senator Peters. "I'm pleased to announce this award that will help the Michigan Bureau of Fire Services train more brave men and women to help safeguard our homes and families, and promote safety in our communities for years to come." Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.11.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces American Jobs Agenda at Press Conferences in Detroit, Flint, and Lansing Tuesday, April 11, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced her American Jobs Agenda at press conferences in Detroit, Flint, and Lansing. In Detroit, she announced her agenda at Detroit Denim Company, a manufacturer of jeans handmade by Detroit workers and created with materials made by American companies. In Flint, she announced her agenda at Rogers Foam, which produces over 90 crucial foam components to protect car batteries that are used in vehicles like the Chevy Volt, Chevy Bolt, and Cadillac ELR. And in Lansing, she spoke about her agenda at Lansing Community College West Campus, which houses the college’s Michigan Technical Education Center. “We need to be laser focused on creating jobs right here in Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “My American Jobs Agenda ensures we are making products in this country, closing loopholes that hurt workers and businesses, and holding countries like China accountable for unfair trade practices. I appreciate businesses like Detroit Denim and Rogers Foam who are committed to investing in our workers and creating jobs in Michigan.” “I’m really happy to have the Senator at our company today,” said Eric Yelsma, founder of Detroit Denim. “Hiring and training workers here in Detroit is one of our top priorities. To see that Senator Stabenow is supporting that by creating bills and initiatives to support our goal is a really important thing.” “Rogers Foam Automotive is very grateful for Senator Stabenow’s commitment to the State of Michigan businesses,” said Tim Nyman, Plant Manager for Rogers Foam Automotive Corporation in Flint. “Her continuous work has helped Rogers Foam Automotive grow in the city of Flint creating jobs and making a presence in the city. We thank her for all her efforts.” “LEAP is very supportive of Senator Stabenow’s American Jobs Agenda and the many benefits it will bring to our country’s economy," said Bob Trezise, President & CEO of the Lansing Economic Area Partnership (LEAP). “Through fair trade practices and incentives for investing at home in the U.S., this important bill will help LEAP fulfill our core mission – which is to attract more business to Metro Lansing, help our local companies grow, and to create more and better jobs for families in our region.” Stabenow’s American Jobs Agenda has three parts: her Bring Jobs Home Act, her Make It In America Act, and her efforts to strengthen enforcement against countries that violate our trade laws. For more information on Senator Stabenow’s American Jobs Agenda, click here. During her small business tour across Michigan, Senator Stabenow visited Grand Haven in August 2016 and met with the CEO of R.A. Miller Industries (RAMI), a manufacturer of high-tech products for our military. RAMI’s CEO expressed concern that our Buy American policies, meant to give priority to American companies when the federal government purchases goods, weren’t working. In response, Senator Stabenow got to work and went back to RAMI to announce her Make It In America Act (S.908), which would create stricter guidelines to make it harder for federal agencies to use waivers to get around Buy American requirements. This will level the playing field for American companies, and especially help our small businesses and start-ups compete for federal contracts. Her Bring Jobs Home Act (S.247) closes a tax loophole that currently rewards companies for moving jobs abroad. This bill would change the law so that companies moving jobs overseas cannot deduct their expenses for doing so. The bill would also provide a tax credit for companies that move jobs and business activities from another country back to America. Senator Stabenow has also led the effort to strengthen enforcement against countries that manipulate their currency, which hurts businesses and workers. She worked successfully to make permanent a new trade enforcement center to monitor and enforce our trade laws. The center is responsible for cracking down on countries that are breaking the rules so our businesses and workers can fairly compete.
04.11.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Small Business Tour in Chelsea and Dexter Tuesday, April 11, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow continued her Michigan small business tour in Chelsea and Dexter yesterday. Senator Stabenow toured Gigi’s Flowers and Gifts and Seitz’s Tavern in Chelsea. She then proceeded to Dexter where she stopped at The Dexter Bakery. After yesterday’s stops in Chelsea and Dexter, Senator Stabenow’s tour has visited over 80 small businesses in Michigan. “I always tell people the best way to support small businesses is to shop and buy local,” said Senator Stabenow. “If we want a strong downtown we need to shop downtown and nowhere is that more true than in Chelsea and Dexter.” “It was an honor to have Senator Stabenow think about us and stop at my store to say hi to my family,” said Gigi Batsakis, Owner of Gigi’s Flowers and Gifts. “I want to thank her so much for all of her support for small businesses and agriculture.” “It was really cool to have Senator Stabenow stop by my tavern,” said Randy Seitz, Owner of Seitz’s Tavern. “Taking the time to talk to me about our family business that we have had for over 100 years in downtown Chelsea means a lot to us.” “I want to thank the Senator for stopping by to hear our concerns as small business owners,” said Karen Dudek, Owner of The Dexter Bakery. “I appreciate her willingness to work with Republicans and Democrats on ways to lower health care costs for families.” Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for small businesses, cutting taxes and increasing access to capital for entrepreneurs to help them expand and create jobs. As a senior member of the Finance committee, Senator Stabenow led the effort last year to extend important tax cuts for manufacturers, startups, and other small businesses. She introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs.
04.11.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Small Business Tour in Kalamazoo Tuesday, April 11, 2017 Yesterday, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow continued her Michigan small business tour in Kalamazoo. Senator Stabenow toured Invitations by Design and Petals & Postings before heading to Gazelle Sports. After yesterday’s stops Senator Stabenow’s tour has visited over 80 small businesses in Michigan. “If you want to be inspired, talk to someone who has their own business and is putting their own time, capital and ideas into it,” said Senator Stabenow. “Everyone I talked to in Kalamazoo is optimistic and hardworking which you have to be as a small business owner.” “It was such a great opportunity for Senator Stabenow to visit our stores and have meaningful, positive discussions about some of the difficulties in being a small business owner,” said Pat Hirsch, owner of Invitations by Design and Petals & Postings. “We need health care for employees at an affordable cost and we need to be placing the right people in the right jobs in Michigan. I know Senator Stabenow is working very hard to help solve these problems.” “It was a pleasure to have Senator Stabenow visit our Downtown Kalamazoo location. We were excited to hear that she bikes to stay healthy,” said Chris Lampen-Crowell, Co-Founder of Gazelle Sports. “We want to be a healthy state, and we want Senator Stabenow to ‘Keep Moving!’” Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for small businesses, cutting taxes and increasing access to capital for entrepreneurs to help them expand and create jobs. As a senior member of the Finance committee, Senator Stabenow led the effort last year to extend important tax cuts for manufacturers, startups, and other small businesses. She introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs.
04.10.2017	Stabenow, Peters Urge Trump Administration to Release Army Corps Brandon Road Study to Stop Spread of Asian Carp Monday, April 10, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) together with 10 other Great Lakes Senators called on the Trump Administration to release a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study that recommends specific measures to prevent Asian Carp from getting beyond the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, a crucial chokepoint in the Chicago waterway system. The study, which is critical to stopping the flow of Asian Carp and other invasive species, was supposed to be released at the end of February but was delayed by the Trump Administration. “We request the Administration release the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ draft proposal to prevent Asian carp from reaching and severely harming the Great Lakes,” wrote the lawmakers. “We are concerned by what we understand to be a White House decision to delay and potentially modify this report that has been under development for years. When taken together with the proposal to eliminate all funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in the fiscal year 2018 budget, delaying the release of this plan to address Asian carp only raises further questions about the Administration’s commitment to protecting our Great Lakes.” The letter was signed by Senate Great Lakes Task Force Members Dick Durbin (D-IL), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Al Franken (D-MN), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Bob Casey (D-PA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), and Chuck Schumer (D-NY). The full text of the letter may be found below. April 10, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director, Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear President Trump and Director Mulvaney, We request the Administration release the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ draft proposal to prevent Asian carp from reaching and severely harming the Great Lakes. We are concerned by what we understand to be a White House decision to delay and potentially modify this report that has been under development for years. When taken together with the proposal to eliminate all funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in the fiscal year 2018 budget, delaying the release of this plan to address Asian carp only raises further questions about the Administration’s commitment to protecting our Great Lakes. The U.S. Army Corps has been working on the Brandon Road Project Tentatively Selected Plan (TSP) for years at the full expense of federal taxpayers. The Army Corps publically confirmed a February 28 release date for the TSP before we understand the Administration delayed its posting to the Federal Register. The only details we have received on the rationale for this decision is that “further coordination” with government and non-government stakeholders was necessary. This explanation is hard to comprehend when the draft plan is the very mechanism for providing all stakeholders the opportunity to review and consider its merits. Halting the release of the TSP not only prevents stakeholder review, it also complicates efforts to develop necessary financial commitments for the project from non-federal entities and further delays the already long process to develop solutions to stop Asian Carp. Given the lack of clarity that now exists on the path forward for and substance of the TSP, we request that answers be provided to the following questions: What further coordination has occurred since the release of the TSP was halted in February? Who has the Administration designated with the responsibility for facilitating further coordination with stakeholders? Are changes to the proposed TSP under consideration and will any stakeholder be given the opportunity to review the plan before its release? What is the timeline for releasing the TSP for public comment? It is of vital importance that the TSP intended for release earlier this year be published to the Federal Register without further delay. Thank you for your consideration of this request and we look forward to your prompt reply.
04.06.2017	Peters, Stabenow Urge President Trump to Address Chinese Steel Dumping and Overcapacity During Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping Thursday, April 06, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow joined a group of steel state Senators in urging President Trump to address Chinese steel dumping and overcapacity during his meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping this week. The impact of Chinese steel produced with unfair methods of completion and other illegal practices has a harmful impact on our national security interests. Due to the recent downturn in steel production, more than 13,600 hardworking Americans have been laid-off and the steel industry is facing billions in losses. “You have consistently reaffirmed your commitment to supporting steelworker jobs, and Chinese steel dumping is a major contributor to American manufacturing job loss. As senators from leading steel and iron ore producing states, we have seen firsthand how this steel dumping has displaced American steelworkers,” wrote the Senators “We hope that you will continue to strongly enforce our trade laws. In addition to building on the progress that has been made thus far, we respectfully urge you to make it clear to President Xi that Chinese steel dumping and illegal trade practices are unacceptable.” In a letter, Peters and Stabenow along with Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Al Franken (D-MN), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Joe Manchin (D-WV), and Bob Casey (D-PA) called on the President to continue strong enforcement of U.S. trade laws and to work with President Xi to stop China from unfairly subsidizing their domestic industries and reduce their overcapacity. The full text of the senators’ letter is below. Dear President Trump, We are writing to urge you to address Chinese steel dumping and overcapacity during your meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping next week. You have consistently reaffirmed your commitment to supporting steelworker jobs, and Chinese steel dumping is a major contributor to American manufacturing job loss. As senators from leading steel and iron ore producing states, we have seen firsthand how this steel dumping has displaced American steelworkers. China produces half of the world’s steel supply and their production is heavily subsidized. A recent lawsuit filed against Chinese steel producers also raises more disturbing allegations such as illegal conspiracy to fix prices and control output and export volumes; the theft of trade secrets by industrial espionage; and the circumvention of hard won duties ordered by the International Trade Commission (ITC) and Department of Commerce by false labeling and transshipment. The impact of Chinese steel produced with these unfair methods of competition and other illegal practices has profoundly harmful impacts on our national economic health and our nation’s national security interests. The cheap steel China produces is unfairly dumped on our shores, hurting U.S. producers. Due to the recent downturn in steel production, more than 13,600 hardworking Americans have been laid-off and the steel industry is facing billions in losses. We desperately need stronger enforcement against foreign competitors who cheat by dumping subsidized goods into the U.S. market. Congress has worked to provide the executive branch with expanded authority and additional resources necessary to increase enforcement of our trade laws. In 2016 we increased funding for trade enforcement by 10 percent and passed legislation like the ENFORCE Act that gives the executive branch additional tools to ensure that orders against those who dump cheap steel into the U.S. are fully enforced. In order to help prevent further layoffs and better assess how unfair trading practices harm American companies, Congress passed the Leveling the Playing Field Act and established a $15 million Trade Enforcement Trust Fund. Domestic industries have filed a series of antidumping and countervailing duty cases with the United States International Trade Commission, resulting in tariffs as high as 522 percent against foreign steel companies. The Department of Commerce has significantly increased enforcement action against companies who break our trade laws. Currently, the Departments of Commerce and Homeland Security are enforcing 149 antidumping and countervailing duty orders against foreign steel companies. We hope that you will continue to strongly enforce our trade laws. In addition to building on the progress that has been made thus far, we respectfully urge you to make it clear to President Xi that Chinese steel dumping and illegal trade practices are unacceptable. Our steelworkers and iron ore miners can compete with anyone in the world, but when foreign producers dump cheap steel in our country, it undercuts our domestic industry and puts American jobs at risk. We encourage you to build on the progress that has been made to address unprecedented global steel overcapacity and unfair trade practices.
04.05.2017	VIDEO: Ahead of Meeting with Chinese President, Senator Stabenow Urges Trump to Hold Countries Like China Accountable for Unfair Trade Practices Wednesday, April 05, 2017 Ahead of President Trump’s meeting with Chinese President Xi, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today spoke at a press conference urging President Trump to hold countries like China accountable for unfair trade practices that hurt Michigan workers and businesses. Stabenow joined 11 Senators today and sent a letter to President Trump urging him to address China’s failed compliance of trade obligations including overcapacity, currency manipulation and industrial espionage in his meeting with Xi. Click here to watch video of Senator Stabenow’s remarks. The full transcript of her remarks maybe found below: “President Trump made a promise to workers and businesses in Michigan that he would crack down on foreign companies that violate our trade laws so that we can protect and expand American jobs. “I repeatedly called on President Trump and his Administration to hold countries like China accountable when they manipulate their currencies and I also called on the Obama Administration to call out China as a currency manipulator and hold them accountable. “This is not a partisan issue; it’s about American jobs. “Five million jobs have been lost by currency manipulation alone and I am very concerned that Donald Trump is more focused now on expanding his own businesses in China rather than our businesses at home. “Just recently, China approved 38 new Trump trademarks for businesses. Our President will have his name on businesses in China including spas, massage parlors, finance and construction companies and real estate companies. “This comes after President Trump fought in Chinese courts for years to get his trademarks with his name on it in China. “I am concerned that Donald Trump is turning his back on people in Michigan and across the country who care deeply about combating unfair trade practices. “So this week, President Trump has an opportunity to show us whose side he is on. “He is meeting with the Chinese President, President Xi; he has the opportunity to keep his promises to Michigan workers and workers and businesses across the country. “As he hosts President Xi at his golf course in Mar-A-Lago, not in the White House, I urge him to make firm commitments to crack down on unfair trade practices that hurt our workers and cost us jobs. “We need to take meaningful steps so that countries like China stop dumping aluminum and steel in our markets, hurting American manufacturers. “We need to make sure that countries don’t artificially undervalue the currency, undermining American companies and workers. “We have to make sure that we are strongly enforcing our intellectual property laws and making sure other countries, China specifically, are not stealing our trade secrets and attacking our companies. “With a level playing field, Michigan companies and workers can compete with anybody in the world and win. “It’s time for President Trump to keep his promise to stand up to China on behalf of American workers and businesses. “And we need to know who he is looking out for in these meetings. “Is he looking out for American people and American jobs or his own private business interests in China? “The American people will be watching.”
04.05.2017	Stabenow, Peters Urge President Trump to Keep Promise to Michigan Workers in Meeting with Chinese President Xi Wednesday, April 05, 2017 In advance of his meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI), joined by Senators Robert Casey Jr. (D-PA), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Al Franken (D-MN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Joe Manchin (D-WV) wrote to President Trump asking him to keep his promise to American workers by calling on China to stop its harmful trade practices including overcapacity, currency manipulation and industrial espionage. “Since joining the World Trade Organization in 2001, China has consistently failed to comply with its international trade obligations. And workers across the U.S., including workers in our home states, have paid the price,” wrote the lawmakers. “We urge you hold firm on your promises to workers in our states and across the country and advance our mutual goal of holding cheaters accountable, bringing home better paying jobs, and fairer markets in which U.S. businesses and workers can compete.” The full text of the letter may be found below. April 5, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: We write in advance of your meeting with Chinese President Xi to encourage you raise several trade issues of regional and national importance, including overcapacity, China market economy status, currency manipulation and industrial espionage. Since joining the World Trade Organization in 2001, China has consistently failed to comply with its international trade obligations. And workers across the U.S., including workers in our home states, have paid the price. You pledged to support American workers and go after trade cheaters, and we hope you take this opportunity with your first one-on-one meeting with Chinese President Xi to keep this promise to American workers and strongly affirm these priorities. Overcapacity China’s excess aluminum and steel production capacity is causing global market distortions and has forced the idling of numerous steel facilities and the layoffs of thousands of U.S. workers. Chinese steel production is up 530 percent from 2000, while American steel mills operated at an average of only 71 percent of capacity in 2016. As a result, U.S. imports of steel increased by 36 percent in 2014, capturing 28 percent of the finished steel market, and a record 29 percent of the total U.S. steel market in 2015. Between January 2015 and December 2016, over 14,000 U.S. steelworkers lost their jobs. Similar trends have been seen in the aluminum sector. We ask you to urge President Xi to live up to China’s previous commitments to reduce its net aluminum and steel production capacity or face strong trade enforcement action by the U.S. against Chinese imports in those industries. China Market Economy Despite agreeing to commitments in its WTO accession protocol to transition to a market economy, China remains a nonmarket economy. For example, the government provides trade-distorting subsidies to its industries, causing uncompetitive market conditions, and market concentration. China also exercises significant control over their factors of production through state owned enterprises and other measures. Reclassification of China as a market economy before it has fully transitioned to one will have significant adverse consequences for American companies, workers and communities, and encumber efforts to receive adequate and timely trade relief. We urge you to reaffirm the position of the United States that China is a nonmarket economy. We also urge you to express your commitment to aggressively defend U.S. treatment of China as a nonmarket economy before the WTO. Currency Manipulation Currency manipulation continues to be a significant concern to manufacturers across the country. The Chinese government has a long history of undervaluing its currency to boost exports. When this occurs, American manufacturers pay the price. China continues to intervene in its exchange rate. Data published on March 7, 2017 by the People's Bank of China, show foreign exchange reserves rose by $6.92 billion, during February, this is counter to expectations that reserves would fall by almost $3 billion. We urge you to make clear to President Xi that the U.S. will hold China accountable when they are found to manipulate currency to the detriment of American manufactures. Industrial Espionage In 2015, President Obama and President Xi reached an agreement that neither government would “conduct or knowingly support” cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property. Following that agreement, instances declined, however, we must remain vigilant that China is adhering to their past agreements, and work to expand these obligations. Industrial espionage is not a new concern, but new avenues to employ old tactics significantly increased the modes of access to and the vulnerabilities of intellectual property and trade secrets. These risks go hand in hand with the widespread piracy we continue to see in China, which inhibits innovation and harms distributors and copyright holders. Theft and violations of intellectual property rights affect all forms of industry, from producers of raw inputs to finished goods. Sales of counterfeit, low-quality merchandise hurt companies across the nation as well as the value of the Made in America brand. We urge you to build on the commitments agreed to between President Obama and Xi and in the future, should it become necessary, use all available resources to protect American companies and interests from theft by nation-states of intellectual property and trade secrets. When you meet with President Xi, we urge you hold firm on your promises to workers in our states and across the country and advance our mutual goal of holding cheaters accountable, bringing home better paying jobs, and fairer markets in which U.S. businesses and workers can compete.
04.03.2017	Stabenow, Peters Lead Bipartisan Delegation Letter to Trump Administration Urging Funding for Dredging of Recreational Harbors in Michigan The letter was also signed by Representatives John Conyers, Sander Levin, Fred Upton, Bill Huizenga, Dan Kildee, Dave Trott, Debbie Dingell, Brenda Lawrence, John Moolenaar, Jack Bergman, and Paul Mitchell Monday, April 03, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today led a bipartisan delegation letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney requesting that funding for dredging of recreational and commercial harbors in Michigan be included in the fiscal year 2018 budget. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has not included operation and maintenance funding to dredge Michigan harbors over the last several fiscal years. “These harbors are critical to commercial and recreational navigation, public safety, and the economies of our state and local communities” wrote the lawmakers. “We hope to see funds set aside for this long overdue and much needed work in the FY2018 U.S. Army Corp of Engineers budget proposal.” The letter was also signed by Representatives John Conyers, Sander Levin, Fred Upton, Bill Huizenga, Dan Kildee, Dave Trott, Debbie Dingell, Brenda Lawrence, John Moolenaar, Jack Bergman, and Paul Mitchell. The full text of the letter may be found below. April 3, 2017 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director, Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney, We write to request that the FY2018 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers budget include Operation and Maintenance funding for much needed dredging of federally authorized shallow draft harbors in Michigan. These harbors are critical to commercial and recreational navigation, public safety, and the economies of our state and local communities. It is our understanding that none of Michigan’s federally authorized Low Use Shallow Draft harbors received Operation and Maintenance funding in the FY2016 work plan nor are currently budgeted for funding in FY2017. This is also the case for multiple Low Use Deep Draft harbors that are of great importance to our state and local municipalities. The following are examples of shallow harbors and navigation channels that are emblematic of the funding shortfalls across Michigan: Arcadia Harbor requires annual maintenance dredging of 5,000 cubic yards. The harbor was last dredged in 2010 using state funding, and limited dredging was completed by the local community in 2012. While the depth of the harbor is authorized to be maintained at 10 feet, recent surveys show depths of 4 feet. This Harbor of Refuge supports charter fishing and recreational navigation interests, and is critical to the local economy. Leland Harbor, last dredged in 2014, requires annual maintenance dredging of approximately 17,000 cubic yards. We understand the depth of navigation channel at the mouth of the harbor is now 1 foot, 90% shallower than the authorized depth. Leland is the only Harbor of Refuge for a 30-mile stretch of Lake Michigan; it supports commercial, tribal and charter fishing; provides fueling and mooring for commercial and recreational vessels; and is the site for a local ferry and National Park Service vessels that transport park personnel, materials and the public to North and South Manitou Islands. Grand Traverse Bay of Lake Superior, last dredged in 2009, requires dredging of up to 20,000 yards of material every three to five years. The depths of the harbor and channel are authorized at 12 feet, but we understand that shoaling has become so severe that material has accumulated at or above surface water levels. This Harbor of Refuge supports important charter fishing and navigation interests. Clinton River, last dredged in 2009, requires maintenance dredging of 20,000 cubic yards every three to five years. Recent surveys show the current depths of the project to be 3 feet shallower than the authorized depth of 9 feet. This important Harbor of Refuge supports significant charter fishing and recreational boating; is the highest use public access site/boat launch in the State of Michigan; and is home to the Macomb County Sheriff Marine Division headquarters. New Buffalo, last dredged in 2013, requires 10,000 cubic yards of material to be dredged annually or every other year. Recent surveys found the depth of the harbor to be 5 feet, 50% shallower than the authorized depth. This Harbor of Refuge supports charter fishing and recreational navigation interests (including more than 1,000 recreational boat slips). Saugatuck Harbor, last dredged in 2013, requires 42,000 cubic yards to be dredged every three to four years. This Harbor of Refuge is critical to local jobs tied to recreational and charter fishing as well as cruise vessels. Pentwater Harbor requires near annual dredging of roughly 12,500 cubic yards. However, it was last dredged in 2010 using Michigan regional dredging provision funding, and the local community performed limited dredging in 2012. This Harbor of Refuge is critical to recreational and charter boating and fishing, and the revenues these activities generate for local businesses. Little Lake Harbor requires annual dredging of roughly 19,000 cubic yards. It was last dredged in 2013 using funds provided by the State of Michigan as part of a contributed funds agreement with the USACE. The depths of the harbor and channel are authorized at 12 feet, but we understand that shoaling has become so severe that material has currently accumulated at or above surface water levels. This Harbor of Refuge supports important charter fishing and recreational navigation interests. Inland Route, last dredged in 1999, requires dredging of approximately 10,000 cubic yards every seven to twelve years. It is our understanding that shoaling has become so severe that it is impacting the ability of water control structures to properly function. Lexington Harbor, last dredged in 2014 with funds provided by the State of Michigan, requires 20,000 to 30,000 cubic yards to be dredged every three to five years. The harbor, which is currently in need of dredging, is an important Harbor of Refuge that is also critical to charter fishing and recreational navigation interests. The harbor also supports a public and private marina with 190 seasonal and transient slips and the local community generates significant income from users and visitors to the area. Thank you for your consideration, and we hope to see funds set aside for this long overdue and much needed work in the FY2018 U.S. Army Corp of Engineers budget proposal. Addressing the needs facing many of our small harbors is critical to recreational and commercial navigation, public safety, and our state and local communities’ economies.
04.03.2017	Senator Stabenow Continues Small Business Tour Across Upper Peninsula Monday, April 03, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow continued her Michigan small business tour in the Upper Peninsula last weekend. At a breakfast hosted by the Marquette Economic Club and Marquette-Lake Superior Community Partnership, Senator Stabenow gave the keynote address and then continued her tour by meeting with local small businesses. Senator Stabenow toured L’Anse Manufacturing, The Hilltop Restaurant, NECi Superior Enzymes in Lake Linden and Vollwerth & Company in Hancock. Senator Stabenow kicked off her Michigan small business tour in the Upper Peninsula last summer. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, Michigan’s small businesses employed over half, or 1.8 million, of the state’s private workforce in 2012. “Hearing and seeing first-hand the wonderful work ethic in the UP truly inspires me,” said Senator Stabenow. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and create the majority of new jobs. You cannot visit the UP without seeing its vital role in Michigan's economy.” “It’s not about Republican or Democrat. It’s about the job to represent everyone in the state. L’Anse is not Detroit or Lansing, our county has 8,000 people. But today my crew got an audience with her just like the others,” said Mark Massicotte, President of L’Anse Manufacturing. “We were able to share some of the great happenings in our company and community with the Senator, and that speaks volumes.” “NECi Superior Enzymes is honored and thrilled to host Senator Stabenow on her Small Business Tour of the Keweenaw. NECi focuses on clean water, fertile soil and serious science. The Senator's record shows her to be a strong supporter of all three,” said Ellen Campbell, CEO of NECi Superior Enzymes. “When funds for our Small Business Innovation Research program were in jeopardy, Senator Stabenow helped to release our funds. We appreciate her help, that she cares and her support for small businesses and the USDA SBIR program.” “It’s great that Senator Stabenow makes time to visit U.P. businesses. It really shows that she is out there working for us,” said Adam Manderfield, President and General Manager of Vollwerth & Company. “We really enjoyed discussing our 102 years of history and business with her.” Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for small businesses, cutting taxes and increasing access to capital for entrepreneurs to help them expand and create jobs. As a senior member of the Finance committee, Senator Stabenow led the effort last year to extend important tax cuts for manufacturers, startups, and other small businesses. She introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs. As Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, she has strongly advocated for small business support through USDA’s Rural Development program. She recently introduced the Timber Innovation Act that helps accelerate research and development to drive a new market for forest products. ###
03.31.2017	Stabenow Announces Legislation to Toughen Up Buy American Act and Create More Jobs at Home Friday, March 31, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced the Make It In America Act, which closes loopholes in the current Buy American law so the federal government is spending American tax dollars to buy products made in America. This Act also holds federal agencies accountable for how they spend taxpayer dollars. The Buy American Act, which was passed in 1933, gives priority to American companies when the federal government purchases goods. However, the current law has numerous exemptions. The Senator announced her legislation during an appearance with Michael Voevodsky, CEO of R.A. Miller Industries, Inc. (RAMI), a leading designer and manufacturer of advanced antenna systems for global military communications. U.S. Senator Gary Peters is a co-sponsor of the legislation. “It’s common sense that American tax dollars be used to purchase products made in America, not overseas,” said Senator Stabenow. “My Make It In America Act will create more opportunities for American jobs by strengthening our current Buy American law and holding federal agencies accountable. The products needed by our federal agencies, including critical defense systems, are being designed and made by talented Michigan workers and workers across the country. American jobs and American businesses need to be our highest priority." “Spending American tax dollars on products made by American workers not only helps create jobs, it’s a critical component of protecting our national security, especially when it comes to equipment for our servicemembers,” said Senator Peters. “I’m proud to join Senator Stabenow in introducing this commonsense legislation that will improve the enforcement of Buy American rules to help boost Michigan’s manufacturing industry and grow our economy.” “America’s national security requires a robust, reliable and secure communications infrastructure. With our highly trained engineering and manufacturing workforce, RAMI is unmatched in our technical excellence and quality to connect America’s military leadership with our men and women on the front lines,” said RAMI CEO Michael Voevodsky. “The Make It In America Act would increase accountability and ensure the mission-critical systems connecting America’s defense networks are designed, manufactured and supported by Americans.” Recently, the federal government has awarded over $70 billion in contracts to foreign companies that do not manufacture products here in the United States. In fact, a recent Department of Defense Inspector General report found that the Air Force inconsistently enforced Buy American requirements and purchased foreign-made goods. RAMI is one of many U.S. companies that have felt the impact of improper enforcement of Buy American standards. In certain instances, the Buy American Act can be waived, such as if the product is not available domestically in sufficient quantity or quality, if doing so is in the public interest, or if the product will be used overseas. The Make It In America Act would make it harder to use these waivers and require agencies to submit an annual report to Congress on the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on foreign made goods. RAMI has more than 60 years of experience, designing, engineering and manufacturing communications equipment that have connected America’s global military in mission critical applications in the harshest environments around the world. For more information on R.A. Miller Industries, Inc. visit their website at www.rami.com.
03.28.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces She Will Oppose Judge Neil Gorsuch’s Nomination to Supreme Court Tuesday, March 28, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that she will vote “no” on Judge Neil Gorsuch’s nomination to the Supreme Court of the United States. She released the following statement laying out the reasons for her opposition: “The Senate has a Constitutional duty to provide advice and consent on Judge Neil Gorsuch’s nomination through a fair and thorough confirmation process. It is essential that the next Supreme Court Justice not only be qualified in the law but also balanced and impartial in his views. “After reviewing Judge Gorsuch's rulings, it is clear that he has a long record of siding with special interests and institutions instead of hard-working Americans. And, therefore, in my judgment, he does not meet this standard of balance and impartiality. “While serving on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Gorsuch ruled against Alphonse Maddin, a truck driver from Michigan who was fired for leaving his trailer on the side of the road after breaking down on a cold night and fearing he would freeze to death. When Mr. Maddin sued, Judge Gorsuch disagreed with six other judges' rulings and reached the conclusion that Mr. Maddin should have risked his life to follow company orders even though Mr. Maddin protected his cargo from loss and completed his assignment. “Additionally, in 2008, Judge Gorsuch ruled against the parent of a severely autistic boy, Luke, who sought an education that would meet his special needs. Yet during Judge Gorsuch's confirmation hearing, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that disabled students are entitled to more protections than Judge Gorsuch had found to be necessary for a quality education. And in another important case, Judge Gorsuch ruled in favor of the rights of corporations over the rights of women to have access to health care. “After carefully reviewing his record and listening to his testimony last week in the Senate Judiciary Committee, I have concluded that supporting the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court is not in the best interests of the people of Michigan whom I am proud to represent.”
03.27.2017	Senator Stabenow Delivered Keynote Speech at Southern Wayne Regional Chamber of Commerce Legislative Forum in Southgate Monday, March 27, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow delivered the keynote address at the Southern Wayne Regional Chamber Legislative Forum in Southgate on MONDAY, March 27. Senator Stabenow discussed efforts she is leading in the Senate to support small businesses and manufacturers, protect our Great Lakes and clean up the Rouge River Area of Concern, and help make Michigan the hub for autonomous and connected vehicles. She also thanked the Chamber for the critical work they do for businesses in the Downriver community.
03.24.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement on Failure of American Health Care Act Friday, March 24, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement after a vote on the American Health Care Act was cancelled in the House of Representatives: “After today, Republicans have a new opportunity to work with us to bring down the cost of premiums and copays for insurance, lower the cost of prescription drugs, and make it easier and less expensive for our small businesses to provide health care to their employees. It's time to come together in a bipartisan way to improve health care for middle-class families in Michigan and across the country, instead of this irresponsible rush to pass a bill that would have raised costs and reduced medical care for most Michigan families.”
03.24.2017	Senator Stabenow Releases Video Urging People in Michigan to Stand up for the Great Lakes Friday, March 24, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today released a video message urging people in Michigan to join her and stand up to protect critical funding for the Great Lakes. The bipartisan Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which Senator Stabenow helped launch in 2010, provides vital resources to protect and restore the Great Lakes. The program faces elimination in President Trump’s budget proposal. Senator Stabenow made the following statement in her video: “I was born and raised in Michigan and love our Great Lakes. If you are in Michigan, I know you feel the same way and that’s why I’m asking for your help today. “In 2010, I authored a bipartisan initiative called the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to make sure we have funds to tackle Asian Carp, algae blooms in the Great Lakes, challenges to our beaches and fishing, and so on. “But now, the Trump Administration has zeroed out all of that funding in its budget. It’s critical that we have resources to protect our precious Great Lakes. “So, I need your help in telling the story about boating and fishing and hunting and all the other ways in which you enjoy the Great Lakes. Or, maybe your job comes from something related to our wonderful waters. “Please go to stabenow.senate.gov and get involved. I would love to hear your favorite Great Lake memory and your favorite Great Lake. “Please get involved. Michigan’s future, and all of the Great Lakes, depend on it.” To watch Senator Stabenow’s video and submit a story, visit her website at www.stabenow.senate.gov/GreatLakes.
03.21.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces Bipartisan Legislation to Support U.S. Manufacturers, Create More American Jobs Tuesday, March 21, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced legislation amending our tax laws to support American manufacturers and to create jobs here at home. The bill makes it clear that both companies using contract manufacturers and the contract manufacturers themselves are eligible to claim tax deductions that reward domestic manufacturing activities in the United States. U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) also introduced the legislation. “We don’t have an economy or a middle class unless we make things and grow things,” said Senator Stabenow. “This bill makes a commonsense change to our tax policies that will encourage manufacturers to create more jobs here at home.” Section 199 is one of the largest tax incentives that benefits domestic manufacturing. It provides companies with a 9% deduction on their income from domestic manufacturing activities, giving those activities a lower effective tax rate and making U.S. manufacturing a more attractive investment. Under current tax law, it is unclear whether a company using a contract manufacturer or the contract manufacturer itself is eligible to claim the deduction. Senator Stabenow’s legislation would clarify tax law to allow both entities to claim the Section 199 tax incentive for domestic manufacturing.
03.20.2017	Peters, Stabenow, Announce $4.6 Million to Expand Head Start Programs for West Michigan Children Monday, March 20, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded $1.95 million to the Grand Rapids Early Learning Neighborhood Collaborative to support their Early Head Start Child Care Partnership program, and $2.7 million to the Muskegon Area Intermediate School District to support Early Head Start and Head Start programs for children. “Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide vital educational and support services to families and children that put them on the path to success,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to help announce this funding that will help expand access to critical medical, nutritional and educational support services for children in West Michigan so they can lead healthy and happy lives.” “Today’s announcement is good news and will help children in West Michigan get the long-term support they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “Good nutrition, medical care and early childhood education can make all the difference in helping our children succeed.” Head Start and Early Head Start prepare children and their families for school by offering a variety of services including early learning experiences, family support services and health services. Early Head Start Child Care Partnership programs offer developmental screenings and referrals to medical, dental, nutrition, vision and mental health services, and provide necessities including diapers and formula. Partnership sites receive additional resources to support training and professional development for staff, and improve facilities and upgrade supplies and equipment.
03.20.2017	Peters, Stabenow, Announce $3.8 Million to Expand Head Start Programs for Pontiac Area Children Monday, March 20, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded $3.8 million to the Oakland Livingston Human Service Agency to support Early Head Start and Head Start programs for children in Oakland County. “Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide vital educational and support services to families and children that put them on the path to success,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to help announce this funding that will help expand access to critical medical, nutritional and educational support services for children in Oakland County so they can lead healthy and happy lives.” “Today’s announcement is good news and will help children in Oakland County get the long-term support they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “Good nutrition, medical care and early childhood education can make all the difference in helping our children succeed.” Head Start and Early Head Start prepare children and their families for school by offering a variety of services including early learning experiences, family support services and childhood developmental screenings and referrals to medical, dental, nutrition, vision and mental health services.
03.20.2017	Peters, Stabenow, Announce $1.2 Million to Expand Head Start Programs for Scottville Area Children Monday, March 20, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded $1.2 million to FiveCAP, Inc. in Scottville, Michigan to support expanded Early Head Start programs for children through their Early Head Start Child Care Partnership program. “Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide vital educational and support services to families and children that put them on the path to success,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to help announce this funding that will help expand access to critical medical, nutritional and educational support services for children in the Scottville area so they can lead healthy and happy lives.” “Today’s announcement is good news and will help children in Scottville get the long-term support they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “Good nutrition, medical care and early childhood education can make all the difference in helping our children succeed.” Early Head Start Child Care Partnership programs offer developmental screenings and referrals to medical, dental, nutrition, vision and mental health services, and provide necessities including diapers and formula. Partnership sites receive additional resources to support training and professional development for staff, and improve facilities and upgrade supplies and equipment.
03.20.2017	Peters, Stabenow, Kildee Announce $5.5 Million to Expand Flint Early Head Start Monday, March 20, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow, and Congressman Dan Kildee today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded $2.3 million to Genesee County and $3.2 million to the Genesee Intermediate School District to support expanded Early Head Start for children in the Flint area through their Early Head Start Child Care Partnership programs. “The children of Flint have been particularly impacted by the water crisis given their vulnerability to the long-term damaging effects of lead exposure,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased to help announce this funding that will expand access to critical medical, nutritional and educational support services for Flint infants and toddlers to ensure they receive the care and resources they need to live happy and healthy lives.” “Today’s announcement is another important step in ensuring that children affected by the water crisis in Flint have the long-term support they need,” said Senator Stabenow. “Good nutrition, medical care and early childhood education can make all the difference in helping Flint’s children succeed.” “Early education like Head Start is one of the most important investments that we can make to help children overcome lead exposure,” Congressman Kildee said. “It is critical that we invest in wrap-around services for Flint families as they recover from this crisis, including educational, nutritional and developmental support. Flint is a strong community and I know that our families and children can overcome lead exposure if they get the resources they need to succeed.” Early Head Start Child Care Partnership programs offer developmental screenings and referrals to medical, dental, nutrition, vision and mental health services, and provide necessities including diapers and formula. Partnership sites receive additional resources to support training and professional development for staff, and improve facilities and upgrade supplies and equipment. Last year, Peters, Stabenow and Kildee introduced legislation to expand Head Start and Early Head Start enrollment for Flint kids exposed to lead. In March of 2016, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded a one-time, $3.6 million grant to expand Head Start and Early Head Start services for preschoolers affected by Flint's lead contaminated water supply. Head Start programming is administered by local public and private nonprofit and for-profit agencies and includes child learning services in reading, math and science; nutritious meals; health and developmental screenings; oral and mental health support; behavioral and special needs services and family services.
03.17.2017	Stabenow, Peters, Kildee Announce Environmental Protection Agency Approval of $100 Million in Federal Funds for City of Flint Friday, March 17, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) today announced that the Environmental Protection Agency approved $100 million in federal emergency funding for the City of Flint. Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Kildee secured the funding in a bipartisan agreement that passed Congress at the end of 2016. “Today we have good news for families in Flint who have already waited far too long for their water system to be fixed,” said Senator Stabenow, Senator Peters, and Congressman Kildee. “After a hard-fought victory to secure $100 million in assistance last year, the City of Flint will finally begin receiving funding to repair and replace the pipes. The people of Flint are strong and resilient, and we will continue to fight for the resources and assistance they need. It’s also past time for the State of Michigan to do everything in its power to meet its responsibilities to help the city recover from this man-made crisis.” The EPA has made $51.5 million immediately available for lead service line replacements, distribution main improvements, and corrosion control. Of that $51.5 million, $20 million will come from the required State match and the other $31.5 million from federal funds. The remaining $68.5 million in federal emergency funding to Flint has also been approved but will be provided after the City and the State complete additional public comment and technical reviews. The Stabenow-Peters-Kildee agreement passed Congress and was signed into law by President Obama in December 2016. It provides access to $100 million in funding to help fix Flint’s drinking water infrastructure; funding to activate at least $200 million in low-interest loans to upgrade water infrastructure in communities in Michigan and across the country; $50 million to address the health care needs of children who have been exposed to lead; authority for the State of Michigan to forgive $20 million in past drinking water loans to Flint; and a requirement that EPA warn the public within 24 hours of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so. The legislation that Congress approved provided $100 million in supplemental emergency federal funding through the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. The State of Michigan, in collaboration with the City of Flint, submitted a comprehensive plan to the EPA to access these funds. This funding was only available to a community like Flint that received a federal emergency declaration by the President due to a public health threat from dangerous amounts of lead in drinking water. ###
03.16.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement on President Trump’s Budget Request that Completely Eliminates Great Lakes Funding Thursday, March 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget request, which completely eliminates funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: “It is outrageous that President Trump’s budget request completely eliminates funding to protect the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative has always received bipartisan support and continues to be absolutely critical to protecting our Great Lakes, including fishing, boating, hunting, and fighting invasive species. Our Great Lakes economy creates 1.5 million jobs and are part of our Michigan way of life. I will continue working across the aisle to not only stop cuts to Great Lakes funding but also to other important initiatives that are important to Michigan families, manufacturers, farmers, and small businesses.”
03.15.2017	Stabenow, Peters, Kildee Introduce Resolution Opposing Nuclear Waste Storage Site in Great Lakes Basin Wednesday, March 15, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) today introduced resolutions, in both the House and Senate, expressing opposition to construction of a nuclear waste repository less than a mile from Lake Huron in Ontario. “Canada is facing a critical decision that will impact generations in both our countries,” said Senator Stabenow. “A nuclear waste spill near the Great Lakes could have a devastating impact on our health and environment and threaten our Michigan way of life. Given what is at stake, I urge our Canadian neighbors to make the right choice and shelve plans for this site once and for all.” “The Canadian proposal to build a permanent nuclear waste repository less than a mile from Lake Huron could cause significant, lasting damage to the Great Lakes and undermine the progress we have made cleaning up the water quality in the Great Lakes Basin,” said Senator Peters. “President Trump and Secretary of State Tillerson should make every effort to prevent the Canadian government from moving forward with this proposal and work to find an alternative solution that does not jeopardize the health of the Great Lakes.” “Permanently storing nuclear waste less than a mile from Lake Huron just doesn’t make sense and poses a great risk to our Great Lakes,” said Congressman Kildee. “From Detroit to Toronto, a growing number of people – in both the U.S. and Canada – have voiced opposition to this dangerous plan. Surely in the vast land mass that comprises Canada, there must be a better place to permanently store nuclear waste than on the shores of Lake Huron.” U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Al Franken (D-MN), and Dick Durbin (D-IL) are also original co-sponsors of the Senate resolution. Mike Bishop (MI-08), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), David Joyce (OH-14), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Mark Pocan (WI-02), David Trott (MI-11), Jackie Walorski (IN-02), Luis Gutiérrez (IL-04), Sander Levin (MI-09), Paul Mitchell (MI-10), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), and John Moolenaar (MI-04) are also original co-sponsors of the House resolution. Over 40 million people in Canada and the United States get their drinking water from the Great Lakes and the highly toxic waste could take tens of thousands of years to decompose to safe levels. Ontario Power Generation is currently seeking approval from the Canadian Ministry of Environment to build a deep geologic repository to permanently store 7 million cubic feet of low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste. The facility would be located less than 1 mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. The resolution urges the President and Secretary of State to work with their counterparts to prevent a permanent nuclear waste repository from being built within the Great Lakes Basin. It further states that the U.S. and Canada should develop a safe and responsible solution for the long-term storage of nuclear waste.
03.10.2017	Stabenow, Portman Lead Bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force Letter Expressing Concern about Trump Administration’s Reported 97 Percent Cut to Great Lakes Funding Friday, March 10, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Rob Portman (R-OH), Co-Chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today led a bipartisan letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt expressing concern about reports that the Trump Administration’s 2018 budget request will include a 97 percent cut to Great Lakes funding. Great Lakes Task Force Vice Chair Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Task Force members Dick Durbin (D-IL), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Al Franken (D-MN), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Bob Casey (D-PA), Gary Peters (D-MI), and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) also signed the letter. “As members of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, we are writing to express our great concern about reports that the Environmental Protection Agency’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 budget might include drastic cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative program, which enjoys bipartisan and bicameral support,” the Senators wrote. “It is our understanding that an initial budget blueprint only included $10 million for the Initiative, which if accurate, would be 97 percent below the $300 million Congress appropriated in FY 2016 and in previous fiscal years.” “As part of your confirmation hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, we were pleased by the clear support you expressed for the program in response to a question submitted for the record,” the Senators went on to say. “As you begin your tenure as EPA Administrator, we hope that you will continue to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative by fully funding this program in the upcoming budget request.” The full text of the letter is available below. Dear Administrator Pruitt, As members of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, we are writing to express our great concern about reports that the Environmental Protection Agency’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 budget might include drastic cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative program, which enjoys bipartisan and bicameral support. It is our understanding that an initial budget blueprint only included $10 million for the Initiative, which if accurate, would be 97 percent below the $300 million Congress appropriated in FY 2016 and in previous fiscal years. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is the largest federal investment in the Great Lakes’ health, ecosystem, and water quality. Since its inception in 2010, $1.6 billion has been used to fund 3,068 projects to combat the greatest threats to the Great Lakes, including invasive species, harmful algal blooms and loss of fish and wildlife habitats. In targeting Areas of Concern, the program has successfully addressed problems that directly impact the public health and safety including beach closings; restrictions on fish and wildlife consumption; dredging restrictions; and problems with drinking water taste, odor and consumption. As the world’s largest freshwater body, the Great Lakes provide drinking water for 40 million people, contribute $10 billion in tourism each year, and support hundreds of thousands of jobs across the region. Due to the importance of this Initiative in protecting our Great Lakes, Congress authorized the program as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nations Act (P.L. 114-322) for five years at $300 million. As part of your confirmation hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, we were pleased by the clear support you expressed for the program in response to a question submitted for the record. As you begin your tenure as EPA Administrator, we hope that you will continue to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative by fully funding this program in the upcoming budget request. Thank you for your consideration of this request. We look forward to working with you on this program of vital importance to the Great Lakes and all of our states. Cc: Mick Mulvaney, Director, Office of Management and Budget
03.09.2017	As China Continues Approving New Trump Trademarks, Stabenow and Cardin Call on President to Keep His Promises Thursday, March 09, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, held a press conference following reports that China has conditionally granted approval of 38 new Trump trademarks. The Senators raised concerns regarding President Trump’s conflicts of interest and ongoing refusal to divest his assets and Senator Stabenow called on President Trump to keep the promises he made to workers across the country to name China a currency manipulator on his first day in office. Audio of the press conference is available here. “It is impossible not to ask questions about the rapid approval of President Trump’s trademarks in China,” said Senator Stabenow. “China has a long history of manipulating its currency, a practice that hurts American workers and manufacturers, and it is shocking that Donald Trump continues to benefit financially from his business ties there. During the campaign, Donald Trump made a promise to workers in Michigan that he would declare China a currency manipulator on his first day in office. He has turned his back on the people of Michigan.” "This is an astonishing development," said Senator Cardin, Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "It’s clear to me that officials in Beijing have come to appreciate the potential return on investments for China in having a positive, personal business relationship with the President of the United States, who has not taken appropriate and transparent steps to completely sever his relationship from the corporation that bears his name. It is imperative that the State Department, the Commerce Department, and the Justice Department brief Congress, immediately, on these matters and on the potential Constitutional dangers that they present.” Senator Stabenow is an original cosponsor of Senator Cardin's resolution calling upon President Trump to follow the precedent established by prior Presidents and convert his assets to simple, conflict-free holdings, adopt blind trusts managed by an independent trustee with no relationship to the President or his businesses, or take other equivalent measures in order to avoid a potential violation of the Constitution of the United States. They re-introduced it with 31 of their colleagues on March 2nd. Article I, Section 9, Clause 8 of the U.S. Constitution provides that “no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under [the United States], shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.” The Senate resolution introduced, “finds the promised actions outlined by President Donald J. Trump at his January 11, 2017, press conference wholly inadequate and insufficient to ensure compliance with the Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution.
03.07.2017	Senator Stabenow Introduces Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act to Help Lower Cost of Medicine Tuesday, March 07, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) joined her colleagues to introduce legislation to lower the cost of prescription drugs by allowing Americans to buy safe, low-cost medicine from Canada. The bill, S.469 the Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act, was introduced by Senators Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Robert Casey (D-PA), along with 16 others. The bill authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services in two years to allow importation from other advanced countries. Senator Stabenow has long championed legislation to allow seniors to buy more affordable prescription drugs from Canada. She has authored bipartisan bills in the Senate that address the high cost of prescription drugs by allowing American consumers to buy lower-priced, FDA-approved prescription drugs from countries with strict safety regulations like our own, including Canada. She also organized bus trips from Michigan to Canada to purchase prescriptions to highlight these major cost differences. “For years, Michigan families have had to pay high costs for prescription drugs they need when the same drugs are available at a lower price just across the border in Canada,” said Senator Stabenow. “Seniors and families should not have to choose between paying for groceries and life-saving medicine. It’s time to make sure that safe prescription medications are accessible to people who rely on them at an affordable price.” In Canada and other major countries, the same medications, manufactured by the same companies, in the same factories are available for a fraction of the price compared to the United States. In 2014, Americans spent $1,112 per person on prescription drugs while Canadians spent $772 and Danes spent $325. For a summary of the bill and background, click here. To read the bill, click here.
03.06.2017	Stabenow Statement on Trump’s Revised Executive Order on Immigration Monday, March 06, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following the release of President Trump’s revised executive order on immigration: “Our country faces serious threats from terrorism and once again, the President's Executive Order doesn’t address these threats or keep us safer. Instead it is ruining America’s reputation in the world, undermining our relationships with our most critical allies, and hurting law-abiding people. In Michigan, those being hurt are our friends, our teachers, our family members, our coworkers, our doctors, and our neighbors. I stand with Muslim Americans and so many other Michigan citizens against this new order.”
03.03.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Fenton Friday, March 03, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in Fenton as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Red Fox Outfitters, CRUST, and The Iron Grate. Stabenow’s tour has included over 60 stops in communities across the state including Marshall, Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, Bangor, South Haven, St. Johns, Lapeer, Imlay City, Portland, Ionia, Battle Creek, Albion, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “It was inspiring to meet the resilient and innovative business owners in Fenton who help keep our economy in Michigan growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we buy local, whether it’s from a neighborhood bakery, boutique, or sporting goods store, it’s a win for our economy.” “We were thrilled to have the opportunity to meet Senator Stabenow in our shop during her visit to Fenton,” said Kirsty Rising, Co-Owner of The Iron Grate. “We have always admired her hard work and dedication in Washington and we especially appreciate her strong support of small businesses like ours, The Iron Grate." “It’s great to see a focus on small business in the federal government,” said Jess Anderson, Co-Owner of Red Fox Outfitters. “There are many challenges to starting and running a small business, and we ourselves at Red Fox have used programs like SBA-backed loans to establish and grow our store. We notice an increasing focus on small businesses, what they bring to an area, and the way communities are being built around them. We’re excited about that and that politicians like Senator Stabenow are taking the time to find out how to help that growth going forward.” “It was great to see Senator Stabenow here with her constituents to listen to what small business owners are struggling with and to offer her support to the business community,” said Mike Green, Co-Owner of CRUST. ###
03.03.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement on Leaked Reports that President Trump’s Budget Requests 97 Percent Cut to Great Lakes Funding Friday, March 03, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, released a statement in response to leaked reports that President Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency will request a 97 percent cut in funding for the bipartisan Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: “It is outrageous that just days after delaying a critical plan to stop Asian carp, it appears that President Trump’s budget is calling for a 97 percent cut in funding for the bipartisan Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This initiative has been critical to cleaning up our Great Lakes and waterways, restoring fish and wildlife habitats, and fighting invasive species, like Asian carp. Our Great Lakes are part of our DNA and an important driver of our economy in Michigan and I call on President Trump to reverse course on these harmful decisions.” The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which Senator Stabenow championed and helped launch in 2010, accelerates efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes by providing grants to clean up contaminated areas, prevent and control invasive species, address harmful algae blooms, and restore habitat to protect native species.
03.01.2017	Stabenow, Wyden, Senators Call for Review of Trump’s Tax Returns in Light of Ongoing Russia-Trump Associates Investigations The Senators sent a letter today to Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch urging him to request a copy of President Trump’s personal and business tax returns Wednesday, March 01, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR), and other Democratic Members of the Senate Finance Committee today sent a letter urging Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT) to allow Committee members to review President Trump’s tax returns, in light of the ongoing investigation into ties between Russia and Trump associates. U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Carper (D-DE), Bob Casey (D-PA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Michael Bennet (D-CO) also signed the letter. “As you are aware, there have been numerous reports in the media of the Trump Administration, the Trump campaign, and other Trump associates’ close ties to the Russian government,” the Senators said. “Given the critical issues raised by the President’s business entanglements, we respectfully request that you use this authority to obtain the tax returns of the President and his business for review by committee members in a closed executive session of the Finance Committee. If Committee members identify ties or relations to foreign governments within these documents, we will respectfully request the Chairman and members of the committee hold a vote to make that information available to the public.” The full text of the letter is available below. Dear Chairman Hatch: We write to urge you to use your authority as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance to request the tax returns of the President and his businesses for review by Committee members in closed executive session. As you are aware, there have been numerous reports in the media of the Trump Administration, the Trump campaign, and other Trump associates’ close ties to the Russian government. These concerns are compounded by reports of the President’s business entanglements, which may reach around the globe, from Russia, to China, Azerbaijan, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Qatar, Indonesia, the Philippines, and many others. Since becoming President, Mr. Trump has obtained a trademark registration for his Donald J. Trump brand from China shortly after providing U.S. policy concessions to the Chinese government, which could raise significant Constitutional concerns. These unprecedented conflicts of interest pose a threat to American national security and the integrity of the government of the United States. The Senate Committee on Finance is charged with oversight of global financial crimes enforcement and international trade relationships, as well as the administration of our nation’s tax laws. As such, tax code section 6103(f)(4) grants the Chairman of the Finance Committee power to obtain tax return information from the Department of the Treasury. We regard the confidentiality of tax return information as a fundamental part of our tax system. Accordingly, the powers under 6103(f)(4) provide a venue for members of the Senate Finance Committee to examine matters of national importance in closed executive session, while maintaining the confidentiality crucial to our tax system. In 2015, Republican chairmen of the Congressional tax writing committees utilized this power to obtain more than 70 million individual items of taxpayer data. Given the critical issues raised by the President’s business entanglements, we respectfully request that you use this authority to obtain the tax returns of the President and his businesses for review by committee members in a closed executive session of the Finance Committee. If Committee members identify ties or relations to foreign governments within these documents, we will respectfully request the Chairman and members of the committee hold a vote to make that information available to the public.
03.01.2017	Ahead of Finance Committee Vote on Trump Nominee to Lead Centers for Medicare and Medicaid, Stabenow, Murray, and Wyden Express Concerns about Her Commitment to Protect Women’s Health Care Wednesday, March 01, 2017 Ahead of today’s confirmation vote in the Finance Committee, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Patty Murray (D-WA), Ron Wyden (D-WA) and 18 others sent a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Nominee Seema Verma expressing concern about her commitment to protecting women’s health care given her recent comments concerning maternity care during her confirmation hearing. “During your confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, you were asked if women should get access to prenatal care and maternity coverage, as afforded under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) or whether insurance companies should get to choose whether to cover this for women,” the Senators said. “Your response indicated that coverage of prenatal and maternity care should be optional – in direct contrast to the law and the care that women and families receive today.” “Not only was your response inadequate, it reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of an individual’s ability to make health care decisions when no options are made available to them, as was the case before the ACA,” the Senators went on to say. “If no plan offers maternity coverage, and if coverage is extraordinarily costly or requires long waiting periods, what kind of choice does that present to women?” U.S. Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Gary Peters (D-MI), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Bob Casey (D-PA) also signed the letter. The full text of the letter is available below. March 1, 2017 Mrs. Seema Verma CMS Administrator Nominee ATTN: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Legislation U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Mrs. Verma: We write to express our deep concern about your commitment to protect quality, affordable health care for women and to address disparities in health care quality and access. In addition to other concerns, your recent comments concerning maternity care during your confirmation hearing raise real questions about whether you would enforce current legal protections for women’s health. During your confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, you were asked if women should get access to prenatal care and maternity coverage, as afforded under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) or whether insurance companies should get to choose whether to cover this for women. Your response indicated that coverage of prenatal and maternity care should be optional – in direct contrast to the law and the care that women and families receive today. Not only was your response inadequate, it reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of an individual’s ability to make health care decisions when no options are made available to them, as was the case before the ACA. If no plan offers maternity coverage, and if coverage is extraordinarily costly or requires long waiting periods, what kind of choice does that present to women? If confirmed as Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), you would be responsible for overseeing programs that serve over 100 million Americans, including women and families, who access health care services through Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP and the Marketplace. When further pressed at your confirmation hearing whether women should pay more for health insurance, you mentioned that you “think that women have to make the decisions that work best for them and their family.” We agree. However, we know that women and their families are better able to make such decisions when they have access to maternity care coverage, which is why we fought hard to make that care accessible for millions of women and families through the ACA. If confirmed as Administrator, it would be your job to enforce and implement the law. For this reason, we think it’s important you do some research and increase your awareness about how life was for women seeking health care before the ACA became the law. Prior to the ACA, women who purchased their own insurance were unlikely to find coverage that included maternity care. According to the National Women’s Law Center, in 2013, just 12% of individual market plans offered maternity benefits. If maternity coverage was offered, it was often as an expensive rider with a waiting period, limiting the options of women to afford pregnancy care and plan families. Even with maternity coverage excluded, before the ACA, 92% of plans charged women more than their male counterparts for coverage, a practice known as “gender rating.” Insurers often treated pregnancy as a pre-existing condition, allowing them to raise premiums for, or deny coverage to, expectant parents. According to a 2013 report by Truven, the average total price charged for pregnancy and newborn care was about $30,000 for a vaginal delivery and $50,000 for a C-section. Today, maternity care is a federally mandated essential health benefit that must be included in all individual and small group plans, as prescribed under statute. Insurers can no longer charge women higher premiums simply because of their gender, and every plan, inside and outside of the exchanges, must offer maternity care. These are huge strides towards ensuring that women and their families, and not their insurers, are able to make important decisions about their reproductive health and family planning. Going back to the time when insurers were in control, and maternity care was an optional benefit, will lead to worse health outcomes for women. We urge you to commit to enforcing current law requiring maternity care to be covered by all insurance plans for all women, and commit to protecting the benefit if confirmed. Our hope is that you will stand with us in ensuring that women have full access to maternity care.
03.01.2017	Michigan Congressional Democrats Introduce Resolution Marking 16th Anniversary of International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument in Detroit Wednesday, March 01, 2017 Michigan Congressional Democrats today introduced a resolution commemorating the 16th anniversary of the Detroit River International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument. The monument, established by the Detroit River Project Initiative, honors Detroit’s pivotal role as a crossing point into Canada for African Americans seeking freedom from slavery through the Underground Railroad. U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters introduced the resolution in the Senate. U.S. Representatives John Conyers, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell and Brenda Lawrence introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives. “The Detroit River has played an integral role in helping passengers of the Underground Railroad on their way to freedom,” said Senator Stabenow. “As we celebrate the 16th Anniversary of the International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument, we recognize that there is still more work to do to ensure our nation’s promise that all are created equal.” “Many African Americans risked their lives to escape slavery via the Underground Railroad, and the Detroit River marked a vital gateway to freedom and safety in Canada,” said Senator Peters. “The Detroit River International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument honors the legacy of both the people searching for their freedom and those who helped them along the way. I am proud to join my colleagues in honoring the City of Detroit’s role as a beacon of hope at a dark time in our nation’s history.” “During Black History Month, we are all reminded of the brave sacrifices of the men and women who fled our nation in order to secure their freedom,” said Congressman Conyers. “It is a painful moment in history, but a powerful example of the drive we all have to be free. Detroit’s International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument is a year-round reminder that we must find the same courage and same thirst for freedom if our ideals are ever to be realized—if our nation is going to endure.” “Michiganders played an important role in helping African Americans escape slavery. Detroit was a critical juncture on the Underground Railroad and one of the last stops before many found freedom in neighboring Canada,” said Congressman Kildee. “The Detroit River International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument serves both as an important tribute to those who risked their lives seeking freedom as well as a constant reminder of the work that remains to ensure equality opportunity for all.” “The Detroit River International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument stands as an enduring tribute to the brave individuals who fought for freedom and those who helped them achieve it,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “It also stands a poignant reminder of where we’ve been and how far we’ve come, and our responsibility to continue working together to ensure equality for all.” “In the United States, the road to freedom and equality has not always been easy. As we commemorate the 16th anniversary of the Detroit River Underground railroad monument, we are reminded of the strength of the human spirit to seek justice and equality even in the face of great opposition. We are reminded of a troubled past in our country that we must never repeat. We must continue to fight against efforts that would divide and weaken us as a country,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. The International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument (IURMM) is a cross-border partnership between the United States and Canada that celebrates the history of the Detroit River as part of the Underground Railroad. Comprised of the Gateway to Freedom Monument in Detroit, Michigan, and the Tower of Freedom Monument in Windsor, Ontario, the IURMM opened in October 2001 as a way for the region to honor the sacrifices and the courage of those who fought to secure freedom for themselves, their families, and others. ###
02.28.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement on President’s Address to Joint Session of Congress Tuesday, February 28, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s address to the Joint Session of Congress: “We in Michigan believe actions speak louder than words. As Michigan’s U.S. Senator, I will continue to hold the President accountable for real efforts to bring jobs home, strengthen our healthcare system rather than repeal it, and give every person a fair shot to work hard and be successful for themselves and their family.”
02.28.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement After Trump Administration Prevents Release of Critical Plan to Address Asian Carp Tuesday, February 28, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today made the following statement after the Trump Administration prevented the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from releasing a draft plan for stopping further movement of Asian carp in the Illinois River. “It’s extremely alarming that it appears the Trump Administration has decided to delay the release of today’s plan which is a critical part of our efforts to stop Asian carp and other invasive species from reaching our Great Lakes. After a lengthy review process, which included extensive outreach and collaboration with a broad range of stakeholders, it seems that the Administration has decided to side with a narrow group of special interests intent on preventing actions to address the movement of Asian Carp toward Lake Michigan. I call on the Administration to fully explain the rationale for this delay and to provide a date for when this plan will be released.”
02.28.2017	Senate Passes Stabenow, Peters Resolution Honoring Black History Month Tuesday, February 28, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced Senate passage of a resolution celebrating Black History Month. Stabenow and Peters were joined by a bipartisan group of 53 Senators in cosponsoring this resolution. “Black History Month is a reminder that we must commit to the fight for social justice and equality each and every day,” said Senator Stabenow. “I am honored to join my colleagues in recognizing the sacrifices and accomplishments of so many civil rights leaders and continue their work to ensure our nation’s promise that all are created equal.” “Black history is at the heart of our shared American experience, and I’m honored to join my colleagues to commemorate Black History Month,” said Senator Peters. “Black History Month is a time to honor the many contributions of African Americans that have shaped our nation for centuries and recommit to building on those accomplishments as we work together to secure a strong and vibrant future for our country.” Text of the Resolution follows: Whereas in 1776, people envisioned the United States as a new nation dedicated to the proposition stated in the Declaration of Independence that ‘‘all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness . . .’’; Whereas Africans were first brought involuntarily to the shores of America as early as the 17th century; Whereas African Americans suffered enslavement and subsequently faced the injustices of lynch mobs, segregation, and denial of the basic and fundamental rights of citizenship; Whereas in 2017, the vestiges of those injustices and inequalities remain evident in the society of the United States; Whereas in the face of injustices, people of good will and of all races in the United States have distinguished themselves with a commitment to the noble ideals on which the United States was founded and have fought courageously for the rights and freedom of African Americans and others; Whereas African Americans, such as Lieutenant Colonel Allen Allensworth, Maya Angelou, Arthur Ashe Jr., James Baldwin, James Beckwourth, Clara Brown, Blanche Bruce, Ralph Bunche, Shirley Chisholm, Holt Collier, Frederick Douglass, W. E. B. Du Bois, Ralph Ellison, Medgar Evers, Alex Haley, Dorothy Height, Lena Horne, Charles Hamilton Houston, Mahalia Jackson, Stephanie Tubbs Jones, B.B. King, Martin Luther King, Jr., Thurgood Marshall, Constance Baker Motley, Rosa Parks, Walter Payton, Bill Pickett, Homer Plessy, Bass Reeves, Hiram Revels, Amelia Platts Boynton Robinson, Jackie Robinson, Aaron Shirley, Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, Booker T. Washington, the Greensboro Four, and the Tuskegee Airmen, along with many others, worked against racism to achieve success and to make significant contributions to the economic, educational, political, artistic, athletic, literary, scientific, and technological advancements of the United States; Whereas the contributions of African Americans from all walks of life throughout the history of the United States reflect the greatness of the United States; Whereas many African Americans lived, toiled, and died in obscurity, never achieving the recognition they deserved, and yet paved the way for future generations to succeed; Whereas African Americans continue to serve the United States at the highest levels of business, government, and the military; Whereas the birthdays of Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass inspired the creation of Negro History Week, the precursor to Black History Month; Whereas Negro History Week represented the culmination of the efforts of Dr. Carter G. Woodson, the ‘‘Father of Black History’’, to enhance knowledge of Black history through the Journal of Negro History, published by the Association for the Study of African American Life and History, which was founded by Dr. Carter G. Woodson and Jesse E. Moorland; Whereas Black History Month, celebrated during the month of February, originated in 1926 when Dr. Carter G. Woodson set aside a special period in February to recognize the heritage and achievement of Black people of the United States; Whereas Dr. Carter G. Woodson stated: ‘‘We have a wonderful history behind us. . . . If you are unable to demonstrate to the world that you have this record, the world will say to you, ‘You are not worthy to enjoy the blessings of democracy or anything else.’’’; Whereas since the founding of the United States, the Nation has imperfectly progressed toward noble goals; Whereas the history of the United States is the story of people regularly affirming high ideals, striving to reach those ideals but often failing, and then struggling to come to terms with the disappointment of that failure, before committing to trying again; Whereas on November 4, 2008, the people of the United States elected Barack Obama, an African-American man, as President of the United States; and Whereas on February 22, 2012, people across the United States celebrated the groundbreaking of the National Museum of African American History and Culture on the National Mall in Washington, District of Columbia, which opened to the public on September 24, 2016: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) acknowledges that all people of the United States are the recipients of the wealth of history provided by Black culture; (2) recognizes the importance of Black History Month as an opportunity to reflect on the complex history of the United States, while remaining hopeful and confident about the path ahead; (3) acknowledges the significance of Black History Month as an important opportunity to commemorate the tremendous contributions of African Americans to the history of the United States; (4) encourages the celebration of Black History Month to provide a continuing opportunity for all people in the United States to learn from the past and understand the experiences that have shaped the United States; and (5) agrees that, while the United States began as a divided country, the United States must— (A) honor the contribution of all pioneers in the United States who have helped to ensure the legacy of the great United States; and (B) move forward with purpose, united tirelessly as a nation ‘‘indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.’’
02.22.2017	Senator Stabenow, Rep. Huizenga Lead Bipartisan Great Lakes Task Force Letter Stressing Importance of Soo Locks Wednesday, February 22, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Co-Chair of Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and Congressman Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Co-Chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force, today led a bicameral, bipartisan letter to the United States Army Corps of Engineers stressing the importance of completing the study at the Soo Locks in an accurate and timely manner. U.S. Senator Gary Peters and Representatives Sander Levin, Fred Upton, Tim Walberg, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, Brenda Lawrence, David Trott, Jack Bergman, and Paul Mitchell also signed the letter as members of the Senate and House Great Lakes Task Forces. “The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) is currently undertaking an economic reevaluation of a project to build a new navigation lock at the Sault Ste. Marie Locks complex in Michigan,” the lawmakers wrote. “This revaluation is necessary due to erroneous assumptions later acknowledged by USACE in its original economic analysis. We write to ensure that USACE engages stakeholders and considers appropriate transportation alternatives to ensure an accurate benefit-cost ratio (BCR) analysis for the project, which is critically important to our states and the entire country.” “We therefore encourage USACE to ensure that the BCR reevaluation of the Soo Locks project is conducted in a manner that is consistent with other navigation lock and dam project evaluations regarding alternate transportation modes, and that every step is taken to expedite the completion of this critically important analysis,” the lawmakers went on to say. The full text of the letter is available below. February 22, 2017 Mr. Douglas Lamont Performing the duties of Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0108 Lieutenant General Todd T. Semonite Headquarters U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 441 G Street NW Washington, DC 20314-1000 Dear Mr. Lamont and General Semonite: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) is currently undertaking an economic reevaluation of a project to build a new navigation lock at the Sault Ste. Marie Locks complex in Michigan, which was authorized by Congress in 1986 and 2007. This revaluation is necessary due to erroneous assumptions later acknowledged by USACE in its original economic analysis. We write to ensure that USACE engages stakeholders and considers appropriate transportation alternatives to ensure an accurate benefit-cost ratio (BCR) analysis for the project, which is critically important to our states and the entire country. In October 2015, the Department of Homeland Security conducted an analysis of the economic impacts of a 6-month closure of the 49-year old Poe Lock at the Soo Locks complex. DHS concluded that the Poe Lock is the Achilles’ heel of the North American industrial economy and that such an outage would send the United States’ economy into a recession. Later that year, in December 2015, USACE agreed to reevaluate the BCR of upgrading the Soo Locks after acknowledging inaccuracies in its original BCR determination that left the project unable to compete for federal funding. It is our understanding that USACE is reevaluating the BCR for this project by calculating the transportation rate savings based on an alternative mode of transporting commodities around the falls at the Soo Lock using a conveyer belt system. It has come to our attention that this alternative has never been considered for other lock and dam projects, and that transportation via rail or truck have historically been the alternative methods considered in a BCR analysis. We therefore encourage USACE to ensure that the BCR reevaluation of the Soo Locks project is conducted in a manner that is consistent with other navigation lock and dam project evaluations regarding alternate transportation modes, and that every step is taken to expedite the completion of this critically important analysis. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and we look forward to your prompt response.
02.17.2017	Senator Stabenow Votes Against Confirming Scott Pruitt as EPA Administrator Friday, February 17, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) voted against confirming Scott Pruitt to be the next Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. She delivered the remarks against his nomination on the Senate Floor. Video of her speech may be found here and her remarks, as prepared for delivery, follow: M. President I rise to join my colleagues in opposing Scott Pruitt to be the next Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The EPA Administrator is a position of great importance to the people of Michigan, the Great Lakes region, and the entire country. After examining Mr. Pruitt’s record on a broad range of issues, as well as his views about the agency for which he has been nominated to lead, I have significant concerns about the direction and priorities the EPA would take if he becomes Administrator. My concerns about Scott Pruitt are not based on partisan politics. When George W. Bush was President, I joined with 98 of my colleagues to vote to confirm Christy Todd Whitman to be EPA Administrator. Two years later, I was among 87 other members in the Senate to vote to confirm Michael Leavitt to succeed her at the EPA. But I do not believe that Scott Pruitt has the requisite experience and track record to successfully lead an agency that plays such a critical role in protecting the health and wellbeing of the people of Michigan. My state is all too familiar with the importance of clean water and the consequences of environmental mismanagement. While there is no question that the EPA should have acted more quickly to respond to the crisis in Flint, make no mistake that this man made emergency was primarily the function of decisions made by our Governor’s administration. An administration that decided it would rather save $100 a day than pay for the treatment needed to prevent water pipes from corroding and exposing families and children in Flint to lead tainted water. Mr. Pruitt has made clear of his intention to defer as much as possible to state authorities on decisions about protecting the environment. While I firmly believe an effective EPA is one that works closely and often in concert with state and local communities, we must also be sure that we have leadership at the EPA that is willing and capable of providing the oversight necessary to ensure environmental and public health standards. We also need an EPA Administrator that we can trust to protect and preserve the Great Lakes. Critical to this objective is a grant program administered by the EPA called the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The GLRI, which I championed and helped launch in 2010, accelerates efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes by providing grants to clean up contaminated areas, prevent and control invasive species, address harmful algal blooms, and restore habitat to protect native species. Scott Pruitt’s long record of opposing nearly all federal environmental programs raises serious questions about his commitment to the GLRI program -- a program that has garnered bipartisan and bicameral support in the Congress. People come to the Great Lakes from all over the country. They are a part of our DNA and our way of life in Michigan. They contain 20% of the world’s fresh water and support more than 1.5 million jobs. We need leadership at the EPA that we can count on to protect the Great Lakes, and the nearly $62 billion in wages that are tied directly to jobs and industries that depend on these precious waters to operate. I also have great concerns about Mr. Pruitt’s long running opposition to the landmark Renewable Fuel Standard, which makes him an odd choice to lead the agency that administers the program. The President promised us a farmer friendly EPA – and yet his nominee to lead the agency wants to dismantle one of the most successful economic drivers in rural America. Mr. Pruitt has repeatedly spoken out against the RFS, calling the program “flawed” and “unworkable.” Mr. Pruitt heading up EPA, coupled with former Exxon executive Rex Tillerson at the State Department and oil refinery owner Carl Icahn advising the White House, may well mean the end of the RFS as we know it. That’s bad news for our biofuel producers in Michigan, and bad news for any American who cares about creating economic growth and jobs in rural communities. Mr. Pruitt’s record of siding with polluters over sound science puts him outside the mainstream of what we should expect from our EPA Administrator. It is for these reasons that I intend to vote against his nomination and would urge my colleagues to do the same.
02.16.2017	Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Spur Investment in Michigan Railroad Infrastructure Legislation offers tax credit to repair short line railways used to move agricultural products Thursday, February 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) joined Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) in introducing the Building Rail Access for Customers and the Economy, or BRACE Act, which would make permanent a critical tax credit used to repair and upgrade short line railroads, commonly used to distribute agricultural products. “I have met with farmers across the state about the problems with our rail system which they rely on to get their products to market,” said Stabenow. “This legislation will help make sure that Michigan has the railroad infrastructure in place to continue to grow our agriculture economy, export more products and create new jobs.” “Short line railroads remain in need of investment throughout Michigan, posing a significant challenge for our agriculture sector, so we welcome and support Senator Stabenow’s effort to bolster short line infrastructure,” said Bruce Sutherland, president of Michigan Agricultural Commodities. “As a peninsula, Michigan faces unique logistics challenges, and we depend on reliable short line transportation to move our grain to customers throughout the United States and ultimately around the world. Short line rail is critical for the economic vitality of Michigan agriculture and I appreciate Senator Stabenow for encouraging sorely-needed repairs and upgrades throughout the short line rail system.” “The six Michigan subsidiary short lines of Genesee & Wyoming are extremely grateful to Senator Stabenow for her continued support for the short line tax credit,” said Jerry Vest, Senior Vice President of Genesee & Wyoming. “She understands how important Michigan short line freight railroads are for key sectors of the Michigan economy such as agriculture. Her leadership on this issue demonstrates her continued efforts to improve the competitiveness of Michigan farmers and manufacturers.” The short line railroad track maintenance credit provides short line and regional railroads a 50 percent tax credit for railroad track maintenance expenses, up to $3,500 per mile of track owned or leased by the railroad. The short line railroads ensure that small manufacturers’ products can get to markets in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Since 2006 Congress has acted periodically to extend the credit, often retroactively and often almost a year after expiration. This uncertainty causes private investment to decline, limits investments in safety and customer service, and provides uncertainty to businesses, farmers, and employers that cannot be globally competitive without freight rail. Crapo and Stabenow’s bill is also cosponsored by Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Bob Casey (D-PA), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). ###
02.16.2017	Peters, Stabenow, Donnelly, Reed, Feinstein and Brown Introduce Outsourcing Accountability Act Thursday, February 16, 2017 U.S. Senators Gary Peters (D-MI), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Jack Reed (D-RI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) introduced the Outsourcing Accountability Act which will help consumers identify which companies are sending jobs overseas by requiring publicly traded companies to disclose their total numbers of employees by location, including by state and by country. The legislation will also require companies to report the total number of employees and percentage change in employment numbers for each state and country where they have operations. “It’s hard to hold companies accountable for gaming the system and shipping jobs overseas when it’s not even known where their employees are located,” said Senator Peters. “Consumers have a right to know if their hard-earned dollars are supporting American jobs, and this bill will help shine a light on the number of jobs companies are truly outsourcing. When they are given a level playing field, American workers will make the best product every time, and this legislation will help incentivize companies to show they are invested in creating and retaining American jobs.” “We should export our products, not our jobs,” said Senator Stabenow. “Companies should be held accountable if they chose to move jobs out of this country and I urge my colleagues in Congress to support this legislation.” “Americans deserve to know where companies invest," said Senator Donnelly. "Requiring public companies to disclose the location of employees will help investors and consumers learn which companies employ Americans and which companies outsource jobs to foreign countries.” “What gets measured gets managed. This legislation will make it easier for the public and investors to discern which companies are hiring American workers and which companies are shipping jobs overseas,” said Senator Jack Reed. “We need more transparency from companies that eliminate American jobs and ship them overseas,” said Senator Feinstein. “This bill requires companies to disclose exactly where their workers are located and how their workforce changed over the previous year. Both investors and consumers have the right to know if companies prioritize American workers.” “In order to recognize companies that hire American workers, we need more information on where workers are based,” said Senator Brown. “It’s not enough to say you’re dedicated to employing American workers – this will hold companies to the promise to keep workers and business here at home.” The bill is supported by the United Steelworkers and the United Auto Workers. Currently, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires publicly traded companies to disclose certain information about their employees, including the total number of employees and anticipated changes in the number of employees working in different corporate departments. However, companies are not required to publicly disclose where employees are based, making it very difficult to accurately track the number of jobs they are eliminating in the United States and moving overseas. For example, a company could eliminate 700 American jobs and create 1,000 jobs abroad, but under current requirements without disclosing the location, those numbers would appear as a net gain of 300 jobs. According to the Economic Policy Institute, our growing trade deficit with China cost the U.S. 3.4 million jobs from 2011 to 2015. However, the exact number of jobs lost to outsourcing can be difficult to estimate because the data is difficult to find. To attempt to an estimate, researchers have to look at a variety of data sources that can range from local newspaper stories in foreign media outlets to filings with foreign governments and even construction blueprints for new factories in other countries to guess at how many people the facilities might hold. The Outsourcing Accountability Act will make this information readily available to the public.
02.16.2017	Stabenow Statement Following Senate Confirmation of Mick Mulvaney as Next Director of the Office of Management and Budget Thursday, February 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Rep. Mick Mulvaney as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget: “Rep. Mick Mulvaney’s extreme record in the House of Representatives makes him a concerning choice to be the next head of the Office of Management and Budget,” said Senator Stabenow. “Rep. Mulvaney has consistently advocated for cutting Social Security, raising the retirement age, and ending Medicare as we know it. He has even called Social Security a ‘Ponzi scheme!’ I voted against his nomination today because Michigan families deserve cabinet officials who will put their needs and priorities first, not narrow special interests.”
02.16.2017	Stabenow Statement on Andrew Puzder’s Withdrawal from Consideration as Labor Secretary Thursday, February 16, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement after Andrew Puzder withdrew his name from consideration as Labor Secretary: “This is a win for working families in Michigan and across the country. As a CEO, Andrew Puzder showed a stunning disregard for fair pay and the health and safety of his employees. Michigan workers deserve better!”
02.14.2017	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Marshall Tuesday, February 14, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in Marshall as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Darling Ace Hardware, Dark Horse Brewing Company, and Schuler’s Restaurant. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has included stops in Big Rapids, Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, South Haven, Bangor, St. Johns, Imlay City, Lapeer, Battle Creek, Albion, Portland, Ionia, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “It was inspiring to meet the resilient and innovative business owners in Marshall who help keep our economy in Michigan growing,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we buy local, whether it’s from a neighborhood hardware store, restaurant, or brewery, it’s a win for our economy.” “Although we are on different sides of the aisle, I found Senator Stabenow to be engaging, insightful and I appreciate her listening to my concerns about the business,” said Mike Darling, Owner of Darling ACE Hardware. “It was really nice to have Senator Stabenow stop by so we could show off the business that we have built,” said Kristine Morse, Co-Owner of the Dark Horse Brewing Company. “She appreciated how creative we were and it was really great to have her visit.” ###
02.14.2017	Stabenow Pays Tribute to Detroit Entrepreneur Mike Ilitch in Official Congressional Record Tuesday, February 14, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) paid tribute to Mike Ilitch, founder of Little Caesars Pizza and owner of the Detroit Red Wings and the Detroit Tigers. Text of her remarks in the Congressional Record: M. President I rise today to honor a champion for Detroit and for Michigan, Mike Ilitch. Everyone from Michigan knows his life story: the son of Macedonian immigrants, he founded Little Caesars Pizza, one of the largest pizza chains in the world, and rebuilt both the Detroit Tigers and the Detroit Red Wings into world class, winning franchises. He led the Red Wings to four Stanley Cups, and brought the Tigers to the World Series twice. The story of Mike Ilitch is the story of never doing anything halfway. He embodies the American dream: he served as a marine, built a business empire, and had an eye for perfection that led him to incredible success. For him though, it wasn’t enough to be satisfied with success in business or sports; it was all about giving back. He said it himself: “I was raised in Detroit. I came from zero. This community helped make me. It’s nice to give something back.” He loved Detroit, and worked to revitalize the city while maintaining its cultural history. His company, Olympia Entertainment, purchased the Fox Theater and restored it in 1988. He built Comerica Park, home to the Tigers. His recent forty million dollar donation to the Wayne State University School of Business will help build their state-of-the-art facility on Woodward Avenue, next to the new home of the Red Wings and the Pistons, “Little Caesars Arena.” Detroit is better off because of the work that he did. And the people of Detroit are better off because of his work. From his philanthropic organization that has given to those in need, and the program he started through Little Caesars that helps honorably discharged veterans get employed, Mike Ilitch gave people a chance to succeed and to thrive. Mike will be sorely missed by all of us. His legacy is shared by his loving wife of over 61 years, Marian, and his seven children, but it is also shared by everyone in Michigan and all of those who love Detroit. Thank You. ###
02.13.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce Legislation to Help Improve Health Care Services for Children in Schools The Hallways to Health Act will help school-based health centers strengthen health care services for children Monday, February 13, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, and Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced the Hallways to Health Act to help school-based health centers improve health care services for children. In Michigan, there are more than 120 school-based health centers that play a major role in providing basic health services for thousands of students who have limited access to medical care outside of school. Typically, a school-based health center provides a combination of primary care, mental health care, substance abuse counseling, case management, dental health, nutrition education, health education and health promotion activities. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Al Franken (D-MN) cosponsored the legislation and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) has introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Too many children across our state do not have access to a family doctor and depend on school-based health centers for basic care,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is an important step toward making sure children across Michigan receive the care they need throughout the school day.” “School-based health care centers provide quality health care services to thousands of underserved students,” said Senator Peters. “The Hallways to Health Act will better connect school-based health centers with skilled professionals, enhancing students’ wellness and encouraging healthy behaviors.” “School-based health centers are the primary sources of care for thousands of American children,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “We must provide these health centers with the resources they need to keep our children healthy and help them succeed in the classroom.” “At the heart of The Hallways to Health Act is the incontestable fact that healthy students are better learners,” said John Schlitt, President of the School-Based Health Alliance. “And what better time than now, in this uncertain health care landscape, for Congress to acknowledge school-based health centers. They represent a key strategy for ensuring our most vulnerable children and adolescents receive high-quality primary and mental health care services in a location that is safe, convenient and accessible.” “Hallways to Health Act brings together health and education to work collectively to ensure that all of our children are healthy and learning,” said Deb Brinson, Interim CEO of the School Community Health Alliance of Michigan. “Health and education go hand and hand. Hallways to Health Act helps to remove health-related barriers to learning while improving; a student’s health status and academic performance and reduces health disparities. We all know and evidence shows that healthy children are successful students and successful students create stronger communities!” “Physical and behavioral health are essential to a strong education for our nation’s children,” said Tom Livezey, superintendent of Oakridge Public Schools and board president of School-Community Health Alliance of Michigan. “Without a healthy body and a healthy mind, there is no way that our youth can learn efficiently and effectively. School-based health centers are a vital solution to a positive educational experience because they bring health care to where children are – the schools. The Hallways to Health Act recognizes the immense impact these continue to have on our youth throughout the country.” The Hallways to Health Act will provide grants for school-based health centers that partner with community health care workers who can coordinate care and services in the community for families. The legislation will also create a demonstration project to provide telehealth services at centers and expand existing telehealth services in medically underserved areas. Finally, the bill will ensure school-based health centers can be reimbursed for covered services under Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program at the same level as services provided in a physician’s office or outpatient clinic. Senator Stabenow championed the School-Based Health Center Capital Program as part of the Affordable Care Act to help centers access critical funding for construction, renovation and equipment needs. The Health Resources and Services Administration, an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, oversees the School-Based Health Center Capital Program. ###
02.10.2017	Stabenow, Peters Join Colleagues to Introduce Legislation Protecting Scientists from Government Interference Friday, February 10, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters joined 26 of their Senate colleagues to introduce legislation that will protect scientists working for the federal government from political interference. The Senators introduced the legislation in response to recent reports that the Trump Administration placed gag orders on employees at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and halted public communication from other agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Agriculture (USDA). Since November, more than 5,000 scientists, including many Nobel Prize winners, have signed an open letter urging President Trump and Congress to preserve and protect scientific integrity. “I am deeply concerned by reports that the Trump Administration has attempted to silence scientists and prevent them from doing their job,” said Senator Stabenow. “Families in Michigan expect our government agencies to make decisions that protect our air, water, and quality of life based on sound science, not political ideology or special interests.” “Scientific research shouldn’t be guided by political ideologies - it deals in verifiable facts, hard data and proven evidence,” said Senator Peters. “Efforts to silence scientists because their results don’t fit a certain political agenda is not only wrong, it threatens to undermine our nation’s role as a leader in scientific discovery and innovative breakthroughs in areas ranging from medical research to advanced manufacturing to climate change.” The legislation would promote scientific integrity and protect scientists from political interference by: Reaffirming the principle of open communication of scientific findings and preventing the suppression of scientific findings; Ensuring that scientists are allowed to communicate their findings with the public, press, and Congress; Directing federal agencies to develop scientific integrity policies that include whistleblower protections; and, Requiring scientific integrity policies to be posted online and given to all new hires. Senators Stabenow and Peters introduced the legislation along with Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Richard Blumenthal (CT), Cory Booker (NJ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Carper (DE), Chris Coons (DE), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Ed Markey (MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Mark Warner (D-VA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tom Udall (D-NM), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (OR). Last Congress, Peters led the effort to introduce the bipartisan American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, which was signed into law in January. This legislation updates federal research and development policies and reaffirms the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) merit-based peer review process for awarding grants. This process relies on experts within the scientific community to evaluate and select research proposals, and is considered the international gold standard for prioritizing research. ###
02.10.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement Following Senate Republican Confirmation of Tom Price Friday, February 10, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement after Senate Republicans confirmed Tom Price to be the next Secretary of Health and Human Services: “As a leading advocate of dismantling Medicare and Medicaid and our entire healthcare system, Tom Price's policies are not in the best interest of Michigan seniors and families. That is why I voted against his nomination on the Senate floor. The decisions of the next Secretary will affect everyone and the people of Michigan expect him to make decisions in the best interests of their family as well as the larger economy, not narrow special interests.”
02.09.2017	In Advance of His Meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Senators Urge President Trump to Address Japan’s Unfair Trade Practices in Auto Sector The Senators called on President Trump address Japan’s longstanding use of currency manipulation, a practice that hurts American workers and manufacturers Thursday, February 09, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of his meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Gary Peters (D-MI), Roy Blunt (R-MO), and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) wrote to President Trump asking him to make Japan’s longstanding unfair trade practices in the auto sector a priority for the bilateral meeting. The Senators called on Trump to address Japan’s use of currency manipulation, a practice that hurts American workers and puts American manufacturers at a disadvantage. “We greatly appreciate the strong and lasting U.S. relationship with our ally,” said the Senators. “However, we urge you to make Japan’s longstanding unfair trade practices in the auto sector a priority for the bilateral meeting. In particular, we urge you to address currency manipulation and auto-related non-tariff barriers.” “The U.S.-Japan auto-trade relationship hurts American companies and workers and should be addressed with urgency,” the Senators went on to say. “In any bilateral talks with Japan, the U.S. should secure reform of Japan’s practices that hurt U.S. automakers, including currency manipulation, and achieve significant access to Japan’s auto market.” The full text of the letter is available below. February 9, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write in advance of your meeting with Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. We greatly appreciate the strong and lasting U.S. relationship with our ally. However, we urge you to make Japan’s longstanding unfair trade practices in the auto sector a priority for the bilateral meeting. In particular, we urge you to address currency manipulation and auto-related non-tariff barriers. Japan’s auto market is the third largest in the world, but it is also the most closed among developed countries. In 2015, foreign autos accounted for only 6.7 percent of Japan’s market share as a result of non-tariff barriers that make it impossible for foreign automakers to compete. Currency undervaluation has been one of Japan’s most effective trade barriers. In the last 30 years, Japanese authorities regularly intervened in their currency markets to weaken the value of the yen against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the government has mandated onerous and complex testing and certification procedures for foreign automakers. The effectiveness of Japan’s unfair practices is clear: America has a nearly $70 billion annual trade deficit with Japan, 70 percent of which is related to motor vehicle trade. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, in 2015 Japan exported over 4.5 million passenger or commercial vehicles globally. Nearly 1.6 million of these units were exported to the United States. In the same year Japan imported 285,000 vehicles, only 20,000 of which came from the United States. The U.S.-Japan auto-trade relationship hurts American companies and workers and should be addressed with urgency. In any bilateral talks with Japan, the U.S. should secure reform of Japan’s practices that hurt U.S. automakers, including currency manipulation, and achieve significant access to Japan’s auto market. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to working with you on this important matter.
02.09.2017	In Advance of His Meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Stabenow and Peters Urge President Trump to Address Japan’s Unfair Trade Practices in Auto Sector The Senators called on President Trump address Japan’s longstanding use of currency manipulation, a practice that hurts Michigan workers and manufacturers Thursday, February 09, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of his meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI), joined by Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) wrote to President Trump asking him to make Japan’s longstanding unfair trade practices in the auto sector a priority for the bilateral meeting. The Senators called on Trump to address Japan’s use of currency manipulation, a practice that hurts Michigan workers and puts Michigan manufacturers at a disadvantage. “We greatly appreciate the strong and lasting U.S. relationship with our ally,” said the Senators. “However, we urge you to make Japan’s longstanding unfair trade practices in the auto sector a priority for the bilateral meeting. In particular, we urge you to address currency manipulation and auto-related non-tariff barriers.” “The U.S.-Japan auto-trade relationship hurts American companies and workers and should be addressed with urgency,” the Senators went on to say. “In any bilateral talks with Japan, the U.S. should secure reform of Japan’s practices that hurt U.S. automakers, including currency manipulation, and achieve significant access to Japan’s auto market.” The full text of the letter is available below. February 9, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write in advance of your meeting with Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. We greatly appreciate the strong and lasting U.S. relationship with our ally. However, we urge you to make Japan’s longstanding unfair trade practices in the auto sector a priority for the bilateral meeting. In particular, we urge you to address currency manipulation and auto-related non-tariff barriers. Japan’s auto market is the third largest in the world, but it is also the most closed among developed countries. In 2015, foreign autos accounted for only 6.7 percent of Japan’s market share as a result of nontariff barriers that make it impossible for foreign automakers to compete. Currency undervaluation has been one of Japan’s most effective trade barriers. In the last 30 years, Japanese authorities regularly intervened in their currency markets to weaken the value of the yen against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the government has mandated onerous and complex testing and certification procedures for foreign automakers. The effectiveness of Japan’s unfair practices is clear: America has a nearly $70 billion annual trade deficit with Japan, 70 percent of which is related to motor vehicle trade. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, in 2015 Japan exported over 4.5 million passenger or commercial vehicles globally. Nearly 1.6 million of these units were exported to the United States. In the same year Japan imported 285,000 vehicles, only 20,000 of which came from the United States. The U.S.-Japan auto-trade relationship hurts American companies and workers and should be addressed with urgency. In any bilateral talks with Japan, the U.S. should secure reform of Japan’s practices that hurt U.S. automakers, including currency manipulation, and achieve significant access to Japan’s auto market. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to working with you on this important matter.
02.08.2017	Stabenow, Peters Push for Answers About Price Hike for Lifesaving Anti-Opioid Drug Wednesday, February 08, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters joined 29 other Senators in a letter pushing for answers from a leading pharmaceutical company about the dramatic price hike for a life-saving medication used to respond to opioid overdoses. Recent reports unveiled that drug maker Kaléo Pharmaceuticals, which manufactures an easy-to-use injector device containing the overdose-reversing drug Naloxone, raised its price from $690 in 2014, to $4,500 currently. While the Evzio device has the potential to help thousands of individuals survive drug overdoses, the Senators wrote that the inexplicable price hike “threatens to price-out families and communities that depend on naloxone to save lives.” “At a time when Congress has worked to expand access to naloxone products and to assist state and local communities to equip first responders with this life-saving drug, this startling price hike appears to be beyond exploitative,” the Senators wrote to Kaléo Pharmaceuticals CEO Spencer Williamson. A copy of the February 7 letter to Kaléo Pharmaceuticals is available below. February 7, 2017 Mr. Spencer Williamson President and Chief Executive Officer Kaléo Pharmaceuticals 11 Virginia Street, Suite 300 Richmond, VA 23219 Dear Mr. Williamson: We are deeply concerned about reports that Kaléo dramatically increased the cost of its naloxone injector device, Evzio, an FDA approved medication used for the emergency treatment of an opioid overdose—from $690 for a two pack in 2014 to $4,500 today. As you know, this drug is now in the hands of first responders and families struggling with substance use disorder across the country. It is particularly needed in rural areas where access to life-saving emergency services can be limited. Such a steep rise in the cost of this drug threatens to price-out families and communities that depend on naloxone to save lives. Addiction to heroin and other opioids has reached epidemic levels. More than 30,000 Americans are estimated to die each year due to opioid overdoses. Through increased access to community education, treatment and recovery programs, so many of these deaths could be preventable. Naloxone products are an important part of any community’s response to our nation’s opioid crisis, and demand for naloxone products has increased significantly in recent years. Evzio was designed to be simple to administer, making it particularly well suited for use by laypersons such as families looking to protect loved ones from overdose. Unfortunately, reports indicate Kaléo has responded to the increased need for naloxone devices by ratcheting up the price for Evzio from $690 for a two pack in 2014 to $4,500 currently. At a time when Congress has worked to expand access to naloxone products and to assist state and local communities to equip first responders with this life-saving drug, this startling price hike is very concerning. In response to press reports about the price increase, Kaléo has argued that the list price is not a “true gauge” for what consumers are actually paying for the device, because through program discounts and coupons patients often have a low or even zero cost share for Evzio. We are concerned about the impact the high list price may have for those who do not qualify for the program and for state and local entities who hope to purchase large quantities of your product. To help us understand Kaléo’s actions, we would appreciate your response to the following: Please detail your pricing structure for Evzio since the product received FDA approval and provide documentation for why the company has chosen to adjust the pricing structure, including information on if the production costs of Evzio contribute to the price increases. How many devices does Kaléo set aside for your donation program compared to your total production and how are you ensuring that it meets the demand for devices among first responders, state health departments, and other public entities across the country? Please explain what steps Kaléo has taken to inform consumers of their eligibility for these donation programs. What is the total amount Evzio received in reimbursements from the federal government in the past 12 months? Approximately what percentage of your customers relied on federally funded dollars, through reimbursements or otherwise, to purchase Evzio during that period? We look forward to working with you to ensure patients across the country have access to this life-saving device.
02.07.2017	Senator Stabenow Statement Following Senate Republican Confirmation of Betsy DeVos DeVos Fails to Receive Majority Support in Senate, Requiring Historic Tiebreaking Vote by Vice President Mike Pence Tuesday, February 07, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today made the following statement after Senate Republicans confirmed Betsy DeVos to become the next Secretary of Education, despite her failure to get a majority of Senators to support her nomination: “I am deeply disappointed that Senate Republicans confirmed Betsy DeVos to lead the Department of Education. I’ve heard from an overwhelming number of Michigan families who have shared their strong concerns about her long record of pushing policies that have seriously undermined public education in Michigan and failed our children. That is why I joined with half of my Senate colleagues, including two Republicans, to oppose her nomination.”
01.31.2017	Senator Stabenow Announces Opposition to Scott Pruitt as EPA Administrator Tuesday, January 31, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) announced that she will oppose the nomination of Scott Pruitt to lead the Environmental Protection Agency and will vote against his nomination on the Senate Floor. She released the following statement: “The Great Lakes are so important to our economy and our Michigan way-of-life, which is why we need an EPA Administrator we can trust to protect them. I am deeply concerned by Scott Pruitt's record of siding with polluters over sound science when it comes to protecting our air, water, and the public health of families. Mr. Pruitt’s long-term opposition to the landmark Renewable Fuel Standard, one of the most successful economic drivers in America, raises serious questions about his commitment to making home-grown energy and supporting rural economies. Therefore, I oppose his nomination.”
01.30.2017	Stabenow Introduces “Bring Jobs Home Act” to Cut Taxes for Companies that Move Jobs Back to America Ends Loophole that Gives Tax Breaks to Companies that Send Jobs Overseas Monday, January 30, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced legislation to encourage businesses to bring jobs to America and discourage companies from shipping jobs overseas. Stabenow unveiled her legislation, the Bring Jobs Home Act of 2017, at GalaxE.Solutions in downtown Detroit. By cutting taxes and closing a tax loophole, Stabenow’s Bring Jobs Home Act of 2017 will grow the economy and bring jobs home to Michigan. Senator Stabenow first introduced this legislation in 2012, and in every Congress since, but Senate Republicans have repeatedly blocked it. Joining Stabenow at the announcement was Tim Bryan, CEO of GalaxE.Solutions—a global IT solutions innovator that opened a development center in downtown Detroit in 2010. GalaxE remains committed to bringing IT jobs back to the U.S. through programs such as “Outsource to Detroit” and the ExperienceIT training initiative. GalaxE is a leader in building an ever-growing IT hub in the region with other local strategic partners. “We need to be exporting our products, not our jobs,” said Senator Stabenow. “It’s outrageous to ask hard-working Americans and communities to foot the bill for companies that move jobs overseas. If President Trump and Republicans in Congress are serious about bringing jobs back home, they should work with me to pass my legislation right now.” “When we came to this city nearly seven years ago, we saw only opportunity, for our clients and this region, to foster transformation from downtown Detroit for the world,” said Tim Bryan, Chairman and CEO of GalaxE.Solutions. “As we look out onto Campus Martius every day it is incredibly rewarding to see how far this region has come, with countless jobs and a bustling IT hub. The possibilities are truly endless.” Senator Stabenow’s Bring Jobs Home Act of 2017: Creates a new tax cut to provide an incentive for U.S. companies to move jobs and business activity from another country back to America. Specifically, her initiative will allow U.S. companies to qualify for a tax credit equal to 20% of the cost associated with bringing jobs and business activity back to the United States. The company will be able to apply the 20% tax credit against their income tax. Ends a tax deduction for U.S. companies that outsource jobs and business activity. Right now, the cost of moving personnel and components of a company to a new location is defined as a business expense that qualifies for a tax deduction. Senator Stabenow's legislation will keep this deduction in place for U.S. companies that bring jobs and business activity back home but businesses would no longer be able to get a tax benefit for shipping jobs overseas. ###
01.29.2017	Senator Stabenow's Statement on President Trump’s Executive Order on Immigration Sunday, January 29, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released the following statement on President Trump's Executive Order on immigration: "Our country faces real and serious threats from terrorism. Not only does the President's Executive Order do nothing to address these threats and keep us safer, it is ruining America’s reputation in the world, undermining our relationships with our most critical allies, and most heart-breakingly, destroying the lives of good and law-abiding people. In Michigan, those being hurt are our friends, our teachers, our family members, our coworkers, our doctors and our neighbors. You can feel the devastating impact across Michigan - in our homes, businesses and universities. This is a sad time for our country and I stand with Muslim Americans and so many other Michigan citizens against this failed Executive Order and unconscionable bigotry."
01.26.2017	Stabenow, Peters Demand Trump Exempt Entire VA from Hiring Freeze Thursday, January 26, 2017 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow and U.S. Senator Gary Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the Navy Reserve, joined a group of 53 members of Congress to demand President Trump exempt the entire VA and all veterans seeking federal jobs from his executive order that freezes federal hiring. The Senate and House Members say Trump’s hiring freeze will have devastating impacts on veterans and their families. “A hiring freeze at VA will delay veterans’ access to health care and resolution of their disability claims, which for many of our nation’s heroes provides a sole source of income to them and their families,” wrote Stabenow, Peters and their colleagues. “Our nation’s veterans should not be made to sacrifice any more than they already have while you review federal hiring.” Additionally, the Members called on Trump to exempt all veterans seeking employment from his hiring freeze, underscoring that veterans make up 31 percent of the federal workforce. A hiring freeze across the federal government will hurt veterans, many of whom are transitioning from the military to civilian service and may be disabled. “The negative impacts of this freeze will be felt across the country and disproportionately affect those men and women who have honorably served in our military,” they added. The Senators and Representatives emphasized that the hiring freeze will add to the chronic workforce shortages that are plaguing VA, and that more doctors, nurses and administrative staff are needed at VA facilities to reduce wait times across the country and make payments on time. VA has reported it currently has more than 45,000 vacancies.Dr. David Shulkin, Trump’s VA Secretary nominee, has said "I need to fill every one of those openings in order to make sure that we're doing the very best for our veterans." VA has also reported that more than 40 percent of its senior officials are currently eligible for retirement. Efforts to replace each of these employees would be dramatically impaired by the hiring freeze. There are currently more than 450,000 veterans waiting for VA to fulfill the government’s commitment and provide them with the benefits they earned while serving the country. “We urge you to re-evaluate this hiring freeze and take into account the effect it will have on veterans who will have to wait longer for earned benefits,” the group added. Acting VA Director Robert Snyder this week said VA will continue to hire front-line caregivers despite the President’s executive order, but Stabenow, Peters and the other members want the entire VA exempt from the hiring freeze—including support staff, schedulers, IT specialists, and payment processers. The text of the letter to President Trump is available below, as is the list of members of Congress who co-signed the letter with Stabenow and Peters. Dear President Trump: We are deeply troubled that your freeze on the hiring of federal civilian employees will have a negative and disproportionate impact on our nation’s veterans. As such, we urge you to take stock of this hiring freeze’s effect on our nation’s veterans and exempt the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as well as any veterans seeking federal employment from your Memorandum Regarding the Hiring Freeze. While there can be no debate that the federal government, including VA, should be more efficient in its delivery of services to all Americans, a hiring freeze at VA will delay veterans’ access to health care and resolution of their disability claims, which for many of our nation’s heroes provides a sole source of income to them and their families. Our nation’s veterans should not be made to sacrifice any more than they already have while you review federal hiring. Have you considered how this hiring freeze will affect VA’s ability to provide veterans with access to health care? For years, VA has faced chronic medical personnel shortages, particularly in rural areas. As a result of the hiring freeze, the Department’s inability to hire clinicians and the administrative support teams to schedule appointments will have a direct impact on the number of veterans on waiting lists at facilities across the country. Further, this will have an impact on community providers, who will be forced to continue waiting for delayed payments without VA having the ability to hire employees to process payments on their claims. We you to re-evaluate this hiring freeze and take into account veterans who will face increased delay in accessing health care. Have you considered how this hiring freeze will affect VA’s ability to provide veterans with decisions on their appeals for disability compensation? More than 450,000 appeals are pending – that means that more than 450,000 veterans are waiting for the U.S. government to provide them with benefits earned while a disability was incurred while serving in our armed services. Our nation’s veterans cannot afford an unnecessary wait to receive the benefits they have earned serving our country. We urge you to re-evaluate this hiring freeze and take into account the effect it will have on veterans who will have to wait longer for earned benefits -- whether it’s disability, survivor or education benefits, or whether it’s vocational rehabilitation or job training services. Have you considered how this hiring freeze will impact those veterans who apply to federal jobs? Veterans comprise 31 percent of the federal workforce and most receive a well-earned hiring preference when they apply for federal jobs. An across-the-board freeze will hurt these veterans – many of whom are transitioning from military to civilian service, and many of whom are disabled. The negative impacts of this freeze will be felt across the country and disproportionately affect those men and women who have honorably served in our military. Should you move forward with this hiring freeze, one issue that must not be overlooked is VA’s little-known mission of providing support to national efforts to prepare for, respond to, and recover from natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and man-made catastrophes. We urge you to classify VA’s delivery of health care as a national security and public safety responsibility, as outlined in your Presidential Memorandum Regarding Hiring Freeze, and exempt it from this hiring freeze. To do otherwise is to jeopardize the national security and public safety of our nation. Mr. President, this hiring freeze will have a dramatic impact on the quality of health care and benefits veterans receive. We urge you to reconsider. co-signers: Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) Sen. Bob Casey (D-Pa.) Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.) Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) Sen. Kristen Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) Sen. Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.) Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) Sen. Tim Kaine (D-VA.) Sen. Angus King (I-Maine) Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.V.) Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) Sen. Gary Peters (D-Mich.) Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.) Sen. Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.) Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) Sen. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41) Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26) Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2) Rep. Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) Rep. Kathleen M. Rice (NY-4) Rep. J. Luis Correa (CA-46) ###
01.24.2017	VIDEO: Under Questioning from Senator Stabenow, HHS Nominee Tom Price Fails to Say if Women Should Have to Pay More for Insurance Tuesday, January 24, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – During today’s Senate Finance Committee hearing on the nomination of Rep. Tom Price to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) asked him if he believes women should have to pay more for health insurance. Under questioning from Senator Stabenow, Rep. Tom Price failed to say whether health plans should continue to include maternity care and coverage for people with preexisting conditions. Video of the exchange is available here and a transcript is included below. To watch the full hearing, click here. Senator Stabenow: When President Trump said last weekend that insurance was going to be much better, do you think that insurance without protections for those with preexisting conditions or without maternity coverage or without mental health coverage or insurance that would reinstate caps on cancer treatment is better? Rep Price: I don’t know that that’s what he was referring to. Senator Stabenow: Well he said it would be better. And if we took away the rules to cover people with preexisting conditions or stopped the other coverage we have now, I’m just wondering if you define that as better. Rep. Price: Well, you’d have to give me a specific…What’s better for you may not be better for me or someone else and that’s the point I’m trying to get across that patients need to be at the center of this, not government. Should government be deciding this or patients be deciding these things? Senator Stabenow: Prior to the Affordable Care Act, about 70 percent of the private plans that a woman could purchase in the marketplace did not cover basic maternity care. Do you think that that’s better? Not to cover basic maternity care? Rep. Price: I presume that she wouldn’t purchase that coverage if she needed it. Senator Stabenow: She would have to pay more, just as, in general, being a woman was a preexisting condition. That is the reason why we have a basic set of services covered under healthcare. This is something where if a woman wanted to pay more, she could find maternity care. We said in the Affordable Care Act, that’s pretty basic. And for over half the population that’s women, maternity care should be covered.
01.24.2017	VIDEO: Under Questioning from Senator Stabenow, OMB Nominee Mulvaney Doubles Down on Statement that Social Security is a Ponzi Scheme Tuesday, January 24, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – In today’s hearing in the Senate Budget Committee on the nomination of Congressman Mick Mulvaney to be the next head of the Office of Management and Budget, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) questioned Mulvaney about his beliefs on Social Security and Medicare. Under questioning from Senator Stabenow, Rep. Mulvaney failed to reverse his previous statements that Social Security is a Ponzi scheme and failed to say whether he would advise President Trump that Social Security is a Ponzi scheme. Video of the exchange is available here and a transcript is included below. To watch the full hearing, click here. Senator Stabenow: “I have to say, after that exchange, folks on Social Security and Medicare ought to be really worried. This demonstrated the difference between what President Trump has indicated he would do and what, in fact, you will be advising him, Congressman Mulvaney. If, in fact, as you indicate and Senator Cotton indicated, you would give him the unvarnished truth. “I believe people sitting on this side of the aisle believe Medicare and Social Security are great American success stories that have lifted a generation of seniors out of poverty and created health care certainty for many, many, many Americans. I'm thinking after that exchange that for the 57 million seniors and people with disabilities and surviving spouses and children who receive Social Security benefits, the alarm bells should be going off right now. “You did indicate that Social Security is a Ponzi scheme. Is that something you will say to the President? You did indicate that both Social Security and Medicaid and the Department of Education were unconstitutional. Just keeping it to Social Security, do you intend to indicate to the President that you believe Social Security is a Ponzi scheme?” Mr. Mulvaney: “Thank you, Senator. I had a very similar conversation on this exact same topic with Senator Sanders in his office. He asked me about that and I said, well, what I described it as was a plan that takes money from people now in order to give money to people now. And he explained, and I think he was accurate in doing so, that Social Security has always been like that. I wouldn't read too much into the description of it as a Ponzi scheme. It’s simply describing to people how the cash flows. The difficulty that we face was contained in what Mr. Graham just laid through, which was that 50 years ago, 15 people were paying in and one person was taking out and by the time my kids are paying for my retirement, two of them will be paying in for every one that's paying out.”
01.19.2017	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $50,000 Grant for Friends of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary Thursday, January 19, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded a $50,000 grant to the Friends of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary. The grant was awarded by the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation for the “Get Into Your Sanctuary” campaign, which supports sustainable tourism and encourages public engagement and stewardship of the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary. “Thunder Bay attracts families and divers across the state and throughout the world to discover and explore our rich maritime heritage,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “Congratulations to the Friends of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary for this initiative that will attract even more visitors to the Great Lakes.” “Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary is a rich and unique part of our Great Lakes history and ecosystem that draws thousands of visitors to Northern Michigan every year,” said Senator Peters, member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “This grant will help boost tourism while educating both tourists and residents on the importance of protecting Thunder Bay and the Great Lakes for future generations.” “We are honored to receive this grant. Working with local communities, our ‘Get In Your Sanctuary’ program will help build sustainable tourism in the region. We are excited to bring more people to northeast Michigan to experience wonders of the Great Lakes and their rich history in the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary,” said Jeff Gray, Superintendent, Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary. Located in Lake Huron, Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary was established in 2000 to protect one of the nation’s most historically significant collections of shipwrecks. In 2014, the sanctuary expanded from 448 to 4,300 square miles, making it the nation’s largest marine protected area focused on underwater cultural heritage sites. Within this new boundary are 93 known shipwreck sites, while historic research indicates as many 100 additional sites in the area remain undiscovered. Senators Stabenow and Peters previously introduced bipartisan legislation to recognize historically significant underwater areas in the Great Lakes as National Marine Sanctuaries, which would increase tourism and boost Michigan’s economy. The Great Lakes Maritime Heritage Assessment Act would build on the designation of Thunder Bay in Alpena and direct the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to recommend the designation of national marine sanctuaries in the Great Lakes. ###
01.19.2017	Stabenow Statement on the Nomination of Sonny Perdue for Agriculture Secretary Thursday, January 19, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry, released the following statement regarding President-elect Donald Trump‘s nomination of former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue for Agriculture Secretary to lead the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA): "Today, we have finally received a nomination for Agriculture Secretary, a critically important position that ensures the strength and vitality of American agriculture, small towns, and rural communities across Michigan and the entire country," said Senator Stabenow. "It is imperative that the next Agriculture Secretary is ready on day one to support our nation's food producers and local communities, protect our land, water, and wildlife habitats, and ensure all Americans have access to healthy food. I intend to take a close look at Governor Perdue's qualifications to lead USDA and balance the department’s important missions on and off the farm. I look forward to hearing his ideas for how to best support both farmers and families." ###
01.19.2017	Stabenow Introduces Legislation to Withdraw from TPP Thursday, January 19, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) introduced legislation to require the President to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “This trade deal doesn't crack down on countries that manipulate their currency or enforce protections for American jobs,” said Senator Stabenow. “President-Elect Trump should withdraw from the deal and keep his promise to workers in Michigan and across the country.” Senator Stabenow has been a champion of strong trade protections for Michigan businesses and workers including authoring legislation to crack down on other countries like China and Japan that manipulate their currencies. In 2015 as a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, she opposed trade promotion authority to “fast track” approval of the TPP and voted against trade promotion authority on the Senator floor. The legislation would require the President to provide the countries involved in TPP a written notice of withdrawal on the day the legislation is enacted. The legislation would also prevent TPP from being considered in Congress under trade promotion authority. U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Ed Markey (D-MA) also introduced the legislation along with Senator Stabenow. The text of the legislation may be found here.
01.19.2017	Stabenow Meets with Sessions, Says She Cannot Support His Nomination for Attorney General Thursday, January 19, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement after meeting with Senator Jeff Sessions, President-Elect Donald Trump’s nominee to lead the Department of Justice: “Yesterday, I had the opportunity to meet with Senator Jeff Sessions and ask some tough questions about his nomination to lead the Department of Justice. Because of his record on civil rights and his votes against anti-domestic violence legislation, I cannot support him to be our nation’s highest law enforcement officer. Families in Michigan and across the country deserve an Attorney General who will enforce the nation’s laws fairly and equally.”
01.18.2017	SENATORS GRILL HHS NOMINEE TOM PRICE ON RAISING MEDICARE ELIGIBILITY AGE Senators to Price: “Do you personally support raising the eligibility age for Medicare - yes or no?” Wednesday, January 18, 2017 U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Jack Reed (D-RI), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) sent a letter to U.S. Rep. Tom Price, President-elect Donald Trump’s nominee to serve as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), asking Price to clarify his position on the Medicare eligibility age ahead of his nomination hearing before the Senate Finance Committee. Despite President-elect Donald Trump’s promise not to cut Medicare for seniors who’ve earned it, his nominee to lead the nation’s top health agency – which has jurisdiction over Medicare – has criticized the program and signaled support for raising the Medicare eligibility age from 65 to 67. In a letter sent to Price today, the Senators sought clarity on Price’s position, demanding a simple yes or no answer on whether he supports raising the eligibility age and forcing people to work longer. “Construction and factory workers, nurses, servers in a diner – people who have been involved in hard, physical labor – cannot always continue working those extra years. Shifting the eligibility age for Medicare in a way that would affect a current generation of workers who are already paying into the program and counting on its guarantee is irresponsible and fundamentally unfair,” said the Senators in the letter. “It is imperative that the American people have a clear understanding of your past statements, current views, and prospective goals for the future of the Medicare program.” Full text of the letter is below. Dear Representative Price: As nominee for the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), I am writing to request that you clarify your support for raising the Medicare eligibility age prior to your nomination hearing in front of the Senate Finance Committee. Since Medicare’s enactment in 1965, America’s seniors no longer live in fear of losing affordable, comprehensive health insurance when they retire. For too long, older Americans who spent their working years paying taxes and playing by the rules were unable to achieve the financial security in retirement that they deserved. Now, thanks in large part to social insurance programs like Medicare and Social Security, Americans can spend their working years confident that they will retire with the guaranteed benefits they have paid into throughout their lives. More than 55 million seniors and individuals with disabilities currently rely on Medicare to help cover their medical costs. Yet, despite the remarkable success of Medicare, you have harshly criticized this lifesaving program. You have stated that “nothing has had a greater negative effect on the delivery of health care than the federal government’s intrusion into medicine through Medicare” and you have argued that “we will not rest until we make certain that government-run health care [including Medicare] is ended.” In addition to these criticisms and support of proposals to fundamentally change Medicare by privatizing the program, you have supported raising the eligibility age for Medicare from 65 to 67 through your endorsement of Speaker Ryan’s “A Better Way.” and factory workers, nurses, servers in a diner – people who have been involved in hard, physical labor – cannot always continue working those extra years. Shifting the eligibility age for Medicare in a way that would affect a current generation of workers who are already paying into the program and counting on its guarantee is irresponsible and fundamentally unfair. As you have said yourself, “today’s seniors and tomorrow’s retirees should have a Medicare program that provides access to affordable, quality health care” and future generations of Americans should be able to “count on the programs they have paid into and were promised.” As you already know, the Secretary of HHS maintains jurisdiction over the Medicare program. As the current nominee for this position, it is imperative that the American people have a clear understanding of your past statements, current views, and prospective goals for the future of the Medicare program. Prior to your confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, please respond to the following questions to clarify your position on raising the Medicare eligibility age: You have previously supported ending “government-run healthcare.” Given your prior comments, do you support ending the Medicare program – yes or no? When previously asked this question you have failed to answer and instead responded that you “support patients making independent medical decisions.” Please clearly answer whether or not you support ending or significantly altering the current Medicare program. Do you support raising the eligibility age for Medicare – yes or no? If yes, what age would you raise the eligibility age to? You have said that Medicare needs “significant reforms” and “appropriate restructuring.” Do you support raising the eligibility age as a way of reforming and/or restructuring the program? Do you believe it is fair to increase the eligibility age for workers who are currently paying in to Medicare and planning their retirement around current statue? How would you justify raising the eligibility age for Medicare for individuals who work in more physically taxing conditions, such as factory workers, miners, nurses, and service industry individuals? Studies have shown that increasing the Medicare eligibility age would increase overall national health care spending. Do you support increasing our national health care spending solely on account of raising the eligibility age – yes or no? Studies have shown that increasing the Medicare eligibility age would increase out-of-pocket costs for seniors and employers that have retiree health care plans. Do you support increasing out-of-pocket costs for seniors – yes or no? Do you support increasing costs for businesses by raising their retiree health plan costs – yes or no? Please explain how raising the eligibility age for future generations – who are already paying in to this program – is not a direct undercut of the Medicare guarantee for the more than 260 million Americans who are not current beneficiaries. You have said that future generations of Americans should be able to “count on the programs they have paid into and were promised.” Please clarify how future generations can “count on” the Medicare guarantee if the retirement age is subject to change. If confirmed as HHS Secretary, how would your current views on and past promises regarding Medicare affect your oversight and administration of the program? Over the past half century, Medicare has prolonged and enhanced the lives of millions of Americans. Before the passage of Medicare, 30 percent of seniors lived in poverty, only half had health insurance, and most of those with insurance only had coverage for inpatient hospital costs. Now, nearly 98 percent of seniors have health coverage and more than 90 percent live above the poverty line. We cannot afford to reverse these gains through replacement of Medicare as we know it, or by tactics such as raising the age of eligibility or shifting significant costs onto seniors, their families, and taxpayers. I look forward to receiving your written response to the above questions in advance of your confirmation hearing. Sincerely, ###
01.18.2017	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Protect Homeowners from Higher Taxes Wednesday, January 18, 2017 U.S. Senator Stabenow, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, announced bipartisan legislation to protect homeowners who are underwater on their mortgages from being hit with additional income tax. The Mortgage Debt Tax Relief Act extends for two years a provision to ensure homeowners aren’t required to pay additional taxes when they receive mortgage principal forgiveness because of a short sale, foreclosure, or a mortgage modification. The legislation is co-authored by Senators Dean Heller (R-NV), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Bob Menendez (D-NJ). Senator Stabenow authored the original law to protect homeowners in 2008 and has successfully led the effort to extend this tax cut for families every year after. She also authored additional protections in 2015 to ensure homeowners are eligible for relief as long as the agreement to reduce their mortgage debt is in writing before the extension expires. The Mortgage Debt Tax Relief Act will extend the tax cut and these additional protections, which expired at the end of last year, through December 31, 2018. “Many families in Michigan and across our country are still underwater on their mortgages,” said Senator Stabenow. “Homeowners who are willing to work with their lenders shouldn’t have to pay hundreds or even thousands of dollars in additional income tax.” “While the housing market continues to make a strong comeback in Michigan, passage of this legislation is vital to continue that momentum by keeping Michigan homeowners from being unfairly taxed,” said Jason Copeman, 2017 Michigan Realtors® President. “We applaud the efforts of Senator Stabenow, along with the bill co-sponsors, for recognizing the importance of this tax relief for homeowners not only in Michigan, but across the country.” Declining home prices and rising foreclosure rates have left many families with outstanding mortgage debt after a foreclosure or short sale, or have made families eligible for mortgage modifications that reduced the principal they owed. The IRS previously taxed any loan forgiveness provided to homeowners as “income,” meaning families were paying thousands of dollars in income tax for phantom income that wasn't actual money the family had earned. ###
01.12.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Urge Army Corps to Complete Brandon Road Study to Stop Spread of Asian Carp Thursday, January 12, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) sent a letter to Jo-Ellen Darcy, Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to release new plans for ways to prevent Asian carp and other aquatic invasive species from reaching Lake Michigan. The study will recommend specific measures to prevent Asian carp from getting beyond the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, a crucial chokepoint in the Chicago waterway system. Given the proximity of Asian Carp in the Illinois River to Lake Michigan, the Senators are urging the Army Corps to finalize this plan without delay. Senator Stabenow is the Co-Chair of and Senator Peters is a member of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. The letter reads in part: “Given the proximity of Asian carp to the Great Lakes basin and collections of juvenile and larval Asian carp further upstream than previously recorded in the Illinois River, we urge the USACE to finalize the plan as soon as possible. Completion of the plan is not only a key milestone in the process towards finalizing the Chief’s Report, but it will also provide critical information for policymakers at the state and federal levels to determine the most effective measures to prevent further Asian carp movement.” wrote the Senators. The full text of the Senators’ letter can be found below: January 10, 2017 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army Department of the Army, Civil Works, 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310 Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy, We write to urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to complete the Tentatively Selected Plan for the Brandon Road Study in January 2017, so that the Chief’s Report will remain on target to be completed by January 2019. Given the proximity of Asian carp to the Great Lakes basin and collections of juvenile and larval Asian carp further upstream than previously recorded in the Illinois River, we urge the USACE to finalize the plan as soon as possible. Completion of the plan is not only a key milestone in the process towards finalizing the Chief’s Report, but it will also provide critical information for policymakers at the state and federal levels to determine the most effective measures to prevent further Asian carp movement. On April 6, 2015, the USACE initiated the GLMRIS Brandon Road Study. While we welcomed that announcement, the 46-month projected timeframe for completing the study, including the anticipated publication of the Chief’s Report in 2019, was disappointing and inconsistent with the 3x3x3 rule enacted in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. There is no question that challenges exist to developing and implementing measures that prevent the transfer of aquatic invasive species at Brandon Road. However, it is unacceptable that the report and study take 46 months to complete. Additionally, it has been noted that construction at Brandon Road is expected to take at least 5 to 10 years after the Chief’s report is completed. This timeline is unfortunate while Asian carp continue to threaten the Great Lakes ecosystem and the economy it supports. Specifically, the Great Lakes region’s world-class fishery alone is valued at more than $7 billion annually. Given the importance of the regions’ ecological stability to the national economy and the proximity of Asian carp to the Great Lakes, time is of the essence to finalize this report, making it available to decision makers so that construction can begin as soon as it is authorized by the Congress. The Brandon Road Study follows in the footsteps of the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS) report, which took 4 years to complete and resulted in an array of potential alternatives with no specific recommended plan. Alternatively, the Brandon Road study and ultimately the Chief’s Report must be done swiftly and with a focus on recommending the best method to halt and permanently prevent Asian carp from entering Lake Michigan. There will be difficult decisions ahead regarding management of this issue, but it is imperative that the USACE complete the Tentatively Selected Plan to help inform those decisions and publish the Chief’s Report in the three-year time frame as required in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. Sincerely, Debbie Stabenow U.S. Senator Gary Peters U.S. Senator
01.12.2017	Peters, Stabenow Applaud ITC Anti-Dumping Decision Against Foreign Built Washing Machines Samsung and LG Undercut Michigan-based Whirlpool By Moving Production to China, Export at Unfair Pricing Thursday, January 12, 2017 Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow applauded a recent ruling by the U.S. International Trade Committee that foreign manufacturers of washing machines were engaging in unfair trade practices, deliberately undercutting the Michigan-based Whirlpool Corporation. Last year, Senators Peters and Stabenow urged the Department of Commerce to move forward in addressing these dumping violations, which include selling artificially low-priced and Chinese manufactured washers in the United States in order to gain market share. “The United States must act decisively to enforce existing trade laws when foreign companies deliberately and repeatedly engage in predatory trade practices,” said Senator Peters. “I applaud the ruling from the International Trade Commission, as well as the work of the U.S. Commerce Department, to take action on behalf of Whirlpool, a company with a proud tradition of making its products here in the United States. I will continue to stand up for Michigan workers and fight against unfair trade practices, no matter who is President.” “Today’s ruling is a victory for American manufacturing and our talented workers,” said Senator Stabenow. “I have fought aggressively to enforce our trade laws to stop companies in China and South Korea from cheating, and today’s action is an important win in this continuing fight.” As a result of this week’s ITC decision, South Korean based producers Samsung and LG must now pay duties of 52.21% and 32.12%, respectively, to offset their actions of unfair pricing tactics. Whirlpool employs 22,000 workers across the United States, with nearly 15,000 of those employees in manufacturing. ###
01.12.2017	Stabenow Statement on Her Vote Against Senate Budget Resolution to Repeal Healthcare Thursday, January 12, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement on her vote on the Fiscal Year 2017 budget resolution, one of the first procedural steps towards repealing the healthcare law: “With tonight’s vote, Republicans have pulled the first thread that will unravel our entire healthcare system. The Republican repeal will put insurance companies back in charge of our healthcare, take away patient protections from every American with health insurance, kick 30 million Americans off their insurance, and drive up the price of prescription drugs for everyone. Rather than repealing health reform and weakening Medicare and Medicaid, Republicans should work with Democrats to improve care and lower healthcare costs for all Americans.”
01.11.2017	On Senate Floor, Stabenow Reads Stories from Michigan Constituents Concerned About the Future of their Health Care Wednesday, January 11, 2017 U.S. Senator Stabenow spoke on the floor this week to read stories that she has received from constituents across Michigan who are concerned about the future of their health care: Sonja, a farmer from Watervliet: A blueberry farmer and a small business owner, Sonja and her husband have relied on the Affordable Care Act over the past few years to pay huge medical costs. In 2012, Sonja tore the meniscus in her right knee and couldn’t do anything to take care of the issue because she didn’t have insurance. Because of the Affordable care act, she had health insurance three years later and was able to have the severe tear repaired after doctor visits, an MRI, and surgery. She was also able to get preventive care to screen for cancer and her husband was able to get a physical for the first time since high school. Sonja is concerned that she would never be able to afford insurance if she loses a subsidy to make it affordable. Mary, a small business owner from Dundee: Mary has three daughters and owns a small massage therapy business. Her family was covered under Medicaid Expansion and later through a Blue Cross Blue Shield plan in the Marketplace even though her 20-year-old daughter has life threatening allergies and asthma. Mary is concerned that her daughter will not be able to purchase affordable coverage of her own if she is not able to stay on her insurance until age 26 due to her pre-existing condition. Laurie, a resident from Jonesville with diabetes and breast cancer: Laurie has lived with Type 1 Diabetes for 54 years but was able to purchase health insurance thanks to the Affordable Care Act (a pre-existing condition that would have made her uninsurable). Last year, she was diagnosed with stage one breast cancer in a routine mammogram. Without the Affordable Care Act she would not have been able to afford the mammogram or the subsequent treatment without depleting her family’s life savings. Instead of paying $150,000 her maximum out of pocket cost was a small fraction of that amount. Laurie believes without the Affordable Care Act she would not get the care she needs. ###
01.11.2017	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce over $12.8 Million for Flint Mass Transportation Authority Funding Will Provide 32 New Compressed Natural Gas Buses Wednesday, January 11, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Flint Mass Transportation Authority will receive $12,800,000 to purchase 32 new Compressed Natural Gas transit buses and provide a workforce development training program for mechanics and drivers. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration. "These 32 new buses will make a real difference in the lives of Flint families," said Senator Stabenow. "Reliable public transportation is critical for families who need a safe and dependable way to get to work, school or the doctor's office. This investment is another example of the Obama Administration’s commitment to Flint’s recovery." “Reliable, safe public transportation is critical for communities to grow and prosper. This grant will help Flint recover with expanded transportation options for families to earn a living, attend school, shop at local businesses and more,” said Senator Peters. “These new vehicles will allow the MTA to avoid the high cost of maintaining a fleet of aged vehicles over 20-years-old. In addition, these alternative fuel vehicles will provide for an environmentally friendly operating system,” said Edgar H. Benning, General Manager of the Flint Mass Transportation Authority. “We are very appreciative all of the support provided by Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters during this grant award process.” ###
01.10.2017	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $200,000 Brownfield Grant for DTE Energy Rouge River Plant Tuesday, January 10, 2017 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded an announcement from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that Wayne County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority will receive a $200,000 Brownfield Grant to fund a cleanup and redevelopment plan for DTE Energy Rouge River Power Plant in downtown River Rouge. “I commend the many partners involved in this project,” said Senator Stabenow. “This effort is critically important to the health and safety of local residents and economic growth of the community.” “I applaud this grant, which will help attract private investment in the community, stimulate the economy with new jobs and improve the health of River Rouge residents with cleaner air and water,” said Senator Peters. EPA’s Brownfields Program provides grants and technical assistance to communities, states, tribes and others to assess, safely clean up and sustainably reuse contaminated properties that may have hazardous substances, pollutants or contaminants present. To facilitate the leveraging of public resources, EPA's Brownfields Program collaborates with other EPA programs, other federal partners, and state agencies to identify and make available resources that can be used to address Brownfields. Plans for the DTE Rouge River Power Plant call for incorporating the power plant and other sites into the proposed Gordie Howe International Bridge project that will span the Detroit River and connect the Detroit area to Canada. Redevelopment is expected to create jobs and job-training opportunities for local residents and to improve health and environmental conditions in the community. The Wayne County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority is partnering with the Detroit-Wayne County Port Authority, Sierra Club–Southeast Michigan Group, University of Michigan, Southeast Michigan Community Alliance, Ultimate New Beginnings, city of River Rouge, Detroit City Council, Michigan Economic Development Corp., Detroiters Working for Environmental Justice, and Downriver Community Conference. ###
01.09.2017	Democrats Introduce Bill to Require President and Vice President to Fully Divest Personal Financial Conflicts of Interest Senators Also Reiterate Their Demand for Trump to Comply with Constitution's Emoluments Clause Monday, January 09, 2017 Democratic members of Congress introduced the Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017 in the United States Senate and House that would require the President and Vice President to disclose and divest any potential financial conflicts of interest. It also would require presidential appointees to recuse themselves from any specific matters involving the President's financial conflicts of interest that come before their agencies. Original co-sponsors of this legislation in the Senate included Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Bob Casey (D-Pa.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), and Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.). The original co-sponsors of this legislation in the House included Representatives Katherine Clark (D-Mass.), John Conyers (D-Mich.), Richard Neal (D-Mass.), Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and David Cicilline (D-R.I.). The members have consistently asked for more transparency and accountability from President-elect Trump. In November, Democratic senators filed a Resolution stating the Senate's expectation that President-elect Trump needs to decisively and transparently divest all of his business interests and holdings and completely sever his affiliation with the Trump Organization to avoid any actual or perceived conflicts with the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits the president from accepting gifts or benefits from foreign governmental actors. "Americans deserve to know whether or not President-Elect Trump will actually work for all Americans or only the wealthy and the well-connected," said Senator Stabenow. "It is past time Trump take the necessary steps to be completely transparent and disclose his financial interests to the public." "The American people deserve to know that the President of the United States is working to do what's best for the country - not using his office to do what's best for himself and his businesses," said Senator Warren. "The only way for President-elect Trump to truly eliminate conflicts-of-interest is to divest his financial interests by placing them in a blind trust. This has been the standard for previous presidents, and our bill makes clear the continuing expectation that President-elect Trump do the same." "The President of the United States has the power to affect how our tax dollars are spent, who the federal government does business with, and the integrity of America's standing in a global economy," said Representative Clark. "Every recent president in modern history has taken steps to ensure his financial interests do not conflict with the needs of the American people. The American people need to be able to trust that the President's decisions are based on the best interests of families at home, and not the President's financial interests." "The American people do not want the President encumbered by conflicts of interest that put him in violation of the Constitution or US law," said Senator Cardin. "He shouldn't want such conflicts either. Through legislation, resolutions, and advocacy we will continue to uphold the Constitution and current law and require the President-elect to take serious steps to give the American people the transparency they deserve." "Donald Trump's unprecedented conflicts of interest mean his personal finances may come before the interests of the American public. According to outside ethics experts, the only way for the president-elect to resolve this issue is to sell his assets and put the profits in a blind trust managed by individuals with whom he has no contact-and that means not his children. If he refuses to do so, Congress should legally require it," said Senator Feinstein. "Our President-elect has significantly greater risk of business and financial conflicts of interest than any other president, yet has so far refused to follow the precedent set by previous presidents. To this day, President-elect Trump has refused to address his conflicts of interest," said Senator Coons. "His continued delay in taking such steps is deeply troubling and calls into question his commitment to two fundamental responsibilities: running an open, transparent White House and fully severing his business ties before taking office. That's why Congress must act promptly to pass this legislation that will require the President to divest their financial interests and place the proceeds in a blind trust. The presidency is a full-time job with only one client: the American people." "With Inauguration Day fast approaching, the American people are still waiting to hear what steps President-elect Trump will take to guard against conflicts of interest and corruption in his Administration," said Senator Durbin. "I urge the President-elect to honor his promise to sever ties with his businesses while he is in office, letting the American people know with certainty that he is putting America first. If he fails to do so, we must address these unprecedented financial entanglements through legislation to protect U.S. interests." "It's simple. There's only one way for Donald Trump to end his conflicts of interest and reassure the American people that he is working for them and not for himself: Divest. Sell off the businesses and put the proceeds in a true blind trust," said Senator Merkley. "During his campaign, Donald Trump promised to stand with American workers and families, and to fight back against a rigged system, but actions speak a lot louder than words," said Senator Murray. "This bill would be a strong step toward transparency and making sure any president, but particularly President-elect Trump, with his unprecedented business dealings and conflicts of interest, assures the public he or she is always acting in the best interest of the country and not merely working for himself or other millionaires, billionaires, and special interests." "With President-Elect Trump flouting bipartisan traditions of disclosure while engaging with foreign leaders at the highest level, it's more important than ever to ensure that the Commander-in-Chief isn't playing by a different set of rules," said Senator Wyden. "The American people deserve the highest level of truth, honor and transparency from our president-elect." "America must come first, and an Administration with personal financial interests that compete against American interests is ripe for corruption," said Senator Brown. "President-elect Trump's conflicts of interests are unprecedented and for the good of our nation he must divest himself from his businesses." Senator Casey said. "The American people deserve to know that their president is acting in their best interest and not for the benefit of his business interests. Unless President-elect Trump divests, the American people will have no way of knowing where the Trump Organization ends and the Trump Administration begins." "Good governance requires transparency to ensure public officials aren't working for themselves or other interests, but serving the American people," said Senator Klobuchar. "This legislation builds on our efforts to set higher ethical standards and increase transparency in order to instill public trust and confidence." "The President-elect is entering office with unprecedented conflicts of interest," Senator Bennet said. "Unfortunately, Mr. Trump has so far failed to take steps to minimize these conflicts. This is the least we can do to ensure that the incoming Administration will place the interests of the American people first." "The American people should be able to have faith in their elected leaders and trust that they are not holding office to enrich themselves, their families, or their friends," said Senator Gillibrand. "It shouldn't take an act of Congress for the President and Vice President to disclose and divest, but if they aren't willing to do it on their own then we need stronger transparency laws. Americans deserve to know if the President and Vice President have financial conflicts of interest that could affect the decisions they make in office. I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation and help restore the American people's trust in their elected leaders." "The president must always put the interests of the American people ahead of his own personal financial interests, and that certainly shouldn't change with Donald Trump," said Senator Franken. "President-elect Trump has failed to take the necessary steps to disclose and eliminate his many potential conflicts of interest, and that could jeopardize our national interests from the moment he takes the Oath of Office on January 20. That's beyond unacceptable, and it's why we've introduced this bill to require the president-elect to uphold the long tradition of past presidents and fully divest his vast financial holdings. Americans deserve nothing less." "President-elect Trump is a walking, talking, tweeting conflict of interest who seems intent on rewriting the rules to make them work for himself," said Senator Baldwin. "The American people need to be able to trust that the President of the United States is putting the interests of the people first, not his own. In order for President-elect Trump to earn this trust, he must fully divest his financial interests and put them away in a truly blind trust." "The President-elect should build a wall between himself and any potential conflicts of interests as high as anything he wants to build along the border. The President-elect must use a blind trust and cannot expect to rely on the blind faith of the American people to avoid these conflicts. There cannot be any actual or perceived conflict of interest with the Constitution, and the President-elect should provide the American people a concrete and full-throated commitment to the Emoulments Clause by eliminating any potential ethical concerns," said Senator Markey. "It is critical that the American people know whether President-elect Trump is acting in the national interest or his own private financial interest," said Senator Peters. "The only way to truly eliminate financial conflicts of interest in the White House is for the President to fully disclose and divest all assets that would call into question the motivations of the executive branch." "It should never be a question whether the President and the Vice President of the United States are doing what's best for themselves or what's best for the American people. That's why I am co-introducing the Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017 to ensure every presidential administration meets what have been the strongest ethical standards for decades. Government officials must do everything in their power to eliminate conflicts of interest because the American people-not personal profit-always come first," said Senator Duckworth. The text of the bill is available here, and a fact sheet is available here. ###
01.09.2017	Stabenow, Hirono, Donnelly introduce amendment to protect Medicare and Medicaid Amendment to budget resolution would block major changes to critical safety net programs without transparency and debate in Congress Monday, January 09, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow joined Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Senator Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), and 16 Senate Democrats in introducing an amendment to protect Medicare and Medicaid from the budget reconciliation process. “Republicans are preparing to pull the thread that would unravel our health system and turn affordable care into chaos,” Senator Stabenow said. “Millions of seniors in Michigan and across the country rely on guaranteed benefits from Medicare for their health care and Medicaid for nursing home care. I am committed to improving care and lowering costs for families, not recklessly dismantling our health system and gutting Medicare and Medicaid.” “For the past 50 years, seniors and working families have enjoyed the peace of mind of knowing that Medicare and Medicaid will be there for them,” Senator Hirono said. “This budget resolution would dismantle these critical programs and our social safety net, resulting in too many families losing their health insurance. I will do everything in my power to protect these benefits for families in Hawaii and across the country.” “Every day, Hoosier families and seniors rely on Medicare and HIP 2.0, which Governor Pence established and was made possible thanks to the health care law,” Senator Donnelly said. “I have opposed and will continue to oppose privatization of Medicare or turning it into a voucher system. If my colleagues, Republican or Democratic, have constructive ideas that would strengthen Medicare or Medicaid, count me in, but if they want to break promises to our seniors or take away coverage and increase premiums for families, count me out.” In addition to Senator Stabenow, the Hirono-Donnelly amendment is cosponsored by Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). "Medicare and Medicaid are essential pillars of our health care system that have served Wisconsin families well for decades. The people of Wisconsin did not send me to Washington to take their health care away, so I will continue to fight efforts to privatize and cut benefits in Medicare and Medicaid and remain committed to protecting and strengthening these programs for our current and future generations. This a simple and important promise Washington must keep to the American people," Senator Baldwin said. “This critical amendment protects Medicare and Medicaid from Republican attempts to undermine support for the most vulnerable members of our society,” Senator Blumenthal said. “Medicare and Medicaid are working for the people of Connecticut, and I will continue fighting against cruel, short-sighted efforts that would put families, seniors, and all Americans in jeopardy.” “Medicare, Medicaid, and the Affordable Care Act make up the three pillars of our nation’s health care system,” Senator Durbin said. “Democrats will not stand idly by while congressional Republicans – who themselves are assured good health coverage – attempt to repeal, dismantle, cut, voucherize, or otherwise throw our entire health system into chaos. We cannot and will not turn our backs on the millions of seniors who depend on Medicare for their medical care, nor will we allow congressional Republicans to rip health coverage away from millions of lower-income families nationwide. A vote on this amendment is very simple: you either stand on the side of seniors and families of modest means … or you don’t.” “More than half of all New Mexicans depend on health coverage from either Medicare or Medicaid,” Senator Udall said. “Privatizing Medicare or slashing funding for Medicaid would have devastating consequences for the families across New Mexico who rely on these critical programs, and would be disastrous for state economies and budgets. I am standing with Senate Democrats as we fight tooth and nail to protect the health care and economic security of seniors and families in New Mexico and across the country.” “Medicare and Medicaid are pillars of health and economic security for seniors and millions of other Americans,” Senator Van Hollen said. “Republicans seem hell-bent on radically changing our health care system, so we must protect these important lifelines.” “Medicare represents our promise to all Americans of a dignified retirement with access to good health care. And Medicaid represents our promise that those fighting to make ends meet won’t be denied the care they need,” Senator Whitehouse said. “No matter how hard Republicans try, we must never break these promises." “Medicare’s promise of guaranteed benefits is an ironclad vow between the American people and their government - any attempt to privatize the program and undermine that promise must be stopped in its tracks,” Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden said. “Threats to Medicaid being discussed would undercut the health care of millions of American children and families, seniors, and individuals with disabilities.” The Hirono-Donnelly amendment would create a budget point of order to prevent changes to Medicare that raise the eligibility age, change eligibility requirements, or privatize and voucherize the program. The amendment would also prevent changes to Medicaid that reduce state funding from current levels. Any changes to either program would require a supermajority in Congress. Nearly one in three American families depend on Medicare and Medicaid for their health care needs. ###
01.05.2017	Senator Stabenow Releases Statement Following Meeting with Tom Price Thursday, January 05, 2017 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following her meeting with Congressman Tom Price, President-Elect Trump’s nominee to be Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: “Today I had the opportunity to meet with Congressman Tom Price to discuss his nomination as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. We have very different views on how to improve care for every American family, including strengthening Medicare and Medicaid for our seniors. His policies are not in the best interest of Michigan families and, therefore, I cannot support his nomination.”
12.27.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement Following United Nations Security Council Vote on Israel Tuesday, December 27, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following the United Nations Security Council’s vote regarding Israel: “I strongly disagree with the United States’ abstention which allowed a one-sided resolution concerning Israel to be adopted. This resolution is not the way to achieve peace and undermines opportunities for direct negotiations.” ###
12.26.2016	Senator Stabenow Nominates 45 Michigan Students to Military Academies Monday, December 26, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced today that she has nominated 45 Michigan students for placement at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. “Michigan is fortunate to have so many exceptional students who want to serve our country through military service,” said Senator Stabenow. “Having demonstrated a strong commitment to excellence in and out of the classroom, I am confident they will represent Michigan and our country well.” Students seeking appointment to a service academy must first obtain the nomination of their U.S. Senator, their U.S. Representative, or the Vice President. Students nominated by Senator Stabenow’s office went through a highly competitive application process that included interviews by community leaders. Now that the students have been nominated, they must await acceptance for admission by the academy to which they have applied. The following students have been nominated by Senator Stabenow to a service academy (by region): Southeast Michigan: Farzad Baghaie – Northville, Naval Academy Olivia Bennett – Clarkston, Merchant Marine Academy Tyler Blythe – Howell, Air Force Academy Gurjiwan Chahal – Shelby Township, West Point Matthew Dahn – Warren, Air Force Academy Mulgetta Fritz – Birmingham, Merchant Marine Academy Jason Hires – Ann Arbor, Air Force Academy Jared Jenkins – Detroit, Air Force Academy Daniel Keith – Saline, Air Force Academy Tristan Klein – Bloomfield Hills, Naval Academy Jason Kopp – Grosse Ile, West Point John Libcke – West Bloomfield, Merchant Marine Academy Jordan McGinnis – Ann Arbor, Naval Academy Shreyans Munot – Rochester Hills, West Point Jessica Reimchen – Lake Orion, West Point Charles Renfroe – West Bloomfield, Air Force Academy Kadie Sardo – Holly, Air Force Academy Nathan Schubring – Plymouth, Naval Academy Faith Van Havel – Hudson, Air Force Academy Daniel Vela – Novi, Air Force Academy Peter Veltigian – Oxford, Air Force Academy West Michigan: Luke Ensing – Grandville, West Point Connor Fischer – Grandville, West Point Tyler Friend – Grant, Air Force Academy Lydia Kamps – Zeeland, Air Force Academy Creston Martin – Mattawan, Air Force Academy Joseph Murphy – Grand Rapids, Merchant Marine Academy Eric Petoskey – Centreville, Air Force Academy Claire Podiak – Portage, Naval Academy Stephanie Rauhoff – Richland, Air Force Academy Jarrod Torr – Kentwood, Naval Academy Upper Peninsula: Leigha Woelffer – Gladstone, West Point Cali Holmes – Menominee, Air Force Academy Northern Michigan: Sawyer Hodson – Indian River, Air Force Academy Camille Madion – Traverse City, Naval Academy Christian Stellin – Traverse City, Naval Academy Mid-Michigan: Zachary Calderone – Jackson, West Point Isaac Coolidge – Eaton Rapids, Air Force Academy Byron Gallagher III – East Lansing, Naval Academy Anthony Stone – Lansing, Naval Academy Flint/Great Lakes Bay Region: Isabelle Hynan – Flint, Air Force Academy Jacob Kelly – Flint, Merchant Marine Academy Jack Lee – Frankenmuth, Air Force Academy Elizabeth Mansour – Grand Blanc, West Point AnnMarie Moolenaar – Midland, West Point ###
12.21.2016	Stabenow Applauds Nearly $10 Million Public Investment for Two Land and Water Conservation Projects in Michigan Support made possible by the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, created by Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill Wednesday, December 21, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the United States Department of Agriculture’s announcement of nearly $10 million in federal funding, that will be matched by private investments, to support land and water conservation in the Lower Grand River Watershed and Huron River Watershed. Support for these two projects – as well as six ongoing projects in Michigan – comes through the 2014 Farm Bill’s Regional Conservation Partnership Program, authored by Stabenow. “Today’s announcement is great news for our farmers and local partners who are committed to restoring the Lower Grand River and Huron River watersheds and builds on the historic investments in land and water conservation that we have already made across Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we established this program in the Farm Bill, it was exactly these types of innovative partnerships – along with the ongoing partnerships to protect the Saginaw Bay, Lake Michigan, Lake Erie, St. Joseph, and others – that we envisioned.” “The Grand Valley Metro Council is very pleased to hear that funds were awarded through the RCPP program to further our conservation efforts in the Lower Grand River Watershed,” said John Weiss, Executive Director of the Grand Valley Metro Council. “The funds will restore habitat in the Grand River and address resource concerns in agricultural areas upstream. We are excited to be working with so many partners on this regionally significant project.” “This opportunity to bring funds to our region for conservation speaks to the capabilities of the partners and their desire to leverage actions as individual organizations into a partnership that benefits the entire Huron River watershed and the Great Lakes,” said Douglas Koop, Executive Director of the Legacy Land Conservancy. Details of the Michigan projects: $8 Million – Lower Grand River Watershed Habitat Restoration – Farmland Conservation Project The Farmland Conservation Project will receive $8,000,000 to help farmers and landowners address water quality concerns, restore habitats for fish and wildlife, and revitalize 2.5 miles of the Lower Grand River Watershed. The Grand Valley Metro Council and the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development will partner with over 20 local organizations on this project. The Lower Grand River Watershed includes the City of Grand Rapids as well as Northern Kent, Newaygo and Muskegon Counties. $1.8 Million – The Huron River Initiative The Huron River Initiative will receive $1,825,880 to help farmers and landowners address soil and water quality concerns in the upper Huron River Watershed. The Legacy Land Conservancy and the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development will partner with five local organizations on this project. The Huron River Watershed spans a land area of more than 900 square miles and drains water to the Huron River through hundreds of tributary creeks and streams. The Huron River’s drainage area includes seven Michigan counties including: Oakland, Livingston, Ingham, Jackson, Washtenaw, Wayne and Monroe.
12.20.2016	Stabenow and Other Senators Ask Trump to Take Action in Bringing Down Prescription Drug Prices Tuesday, December 20, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today joined 18 of her colleagues and sent a letter to President-Elect Donald Trump outlining specific steps his Administration should take to bring down the cost of prescription drugs. “It is undeniable that more and more families are struggling to access medications, and in many cases, are forced to choose between paying for prescription drugs and other necessities, like food and shelter. The American public is fed up, with roughly 8-in-10 Americans reporting that drug prices are unreasonable, and that we must take action to lower costs,” said the Senators in the letter. “You now have the authority to push for a future that prioritizes patients. We are ready to advance measures to achieve this goal and we urge you to partner with Republicans and Democrats alike to take meaningful steps to address the high cost of prescription drugs through bold administrative and legislative actions.” In a letter sent to Trump today, Senator Stabenow and 18 of her colleagues expressed their shared frustration over the cost of drugs and outlined several ways Trump can make good on his promise to lower the rising cost of prescription drugs for consumers including: allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to negotiate better prices for Medicare recipients; requiring drug companies to disclose costs associated with creating drugs so prices are more transparent; putting an end to abusive price gouging; and ensuring competition and innovation that will lead to greater competition and more affordable, effective drugs. The letter was cosigned by U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Al Franken (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Tom Udall (D-NM), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Ed Markey (D-MA), and Angus King (I-ME). December 20, 2016 President-Elect Donald J. Trump Presidential Transition Headquarters 1800 F Street, N.W., Room G-117 Washington, D.C. 20270 Dear President-Elect Trump: During your campaign, you promised to implement bold reforms to bring down the cost of prescription drugs. In fact, you acknowledged that “Congress will need the courage to step away from the special interests and do what is right for America.” You also supported allowing consumers’ access to imported, safe, and dependable drugs from overseas and vowed to negotiate lower prescription drug prices for seniors. And earlier this month you again promised to “bring down drug prices.” While there are many different policy options to achieve lower drug prices, it’s clear that we all agree that all Americans deserve access to safe, effective, and affordable lifesaving medications. As Members of Congress, we are ready to advance bipartisan reforms that will help achieve the goal we all share: reducing the burden exorbitant drug prices are placing on hard-working Americans. Prescription drugs can work wonders – curing diseases and helping those with chronic illness live longer, healthier lives. Drug companies, however, have often engaged in abusive tactics that price lifesaving drugs out of reach for those in need. It is time to enact policies that improve transparency and competition in the commercial market and make the government a smarter purchaser of prescription drugs. It is undeniable that more and more families are struggling to access medications, and in many cases, are forced to choose between paying for prescription drugs and other necessities, like food and shelter. The American public is fed up, with roughly 8-in-10 Americans reporting that drug prices are unreasonable, and that we must take action to lower costs. The public’s concern is well founded, just last week the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid’s Office of the Actuary published that, in 2015, prescription drug spending grew faster than any other category of medical spending for the second year in a row. This evidence comes despite claims from the drug industry that high drug spending in 2014 would only be a temporary blip. You now have the authority to push for a future that prioritizes patients. We are ready to advance measures to achieve this goal and we urge you to partner with Republicans and Democrats alike to take meaningful steps to address the high cost of prescription drugs through bold administrative and legislative actions, including but not limited to the following actions: 1. Give the Secretary of HHS the Authority to Negotiate Drug Prices. As you noted on the campaign trail, permitting the Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices under Medicare could not only produce savings but would bring the largest payer in America in line with the activities of the rest of the insurance industry. In fact, you promised that “(w)hen it comes time to negotiate the cost of drugs, we are going to negotiate like crazy.” However, under current law, the Secretary is prohibited from doing so. We urge you to work with Congress to pass a law that lifts the current ban and gives the Secretary the authority to take immediate action and negotiate better prices for prescription drugs for our nation’s more than 40 million Medicare Part D beneficiaries. 2. Increase Transparency. Throughout your campaign, you also endorsed price transparency for the entire healthcare system. Patients should know drugs’ true cost, not just the price that the drug companies and insurance companies choose to charge. We already have measures in place to require hospitals, providers, and other sections of the healthcare system to report on different cost measures; drug companies should be held to the same standards. We urge you to take immediate administrative action to require drug companies to publicly disclose costs associated with research and development, materials and manufacturing, and the federal benefits they receive in the form of tax credits, government grants, and government-funded research on which their products are based. 3. Stop Abusive Pricing. We urge you to protect consumers from abusive pricing practices —not only gouging consumers with the 5,000-percent overnight price hikes that have made recent headlines, but also the persistent, unjustified double-digit price increases that drug corporations have levied on the American people year after year. As members of Congress, we are ready to work on legislation to combat these abusive practices. 4. Protect and Incentivize True Innovation. Taxpayers, through the federal government, are deeply involved with every step of the drug development process, from supporting basic scientific research and clinical trials, to granting exclusive monopolies, tax incentives, and fee waivers. However, taxpayer funds need to be better targeted to deliver what we all want: safe, innovative, affordable, and effective drugs to address our most pressing public health issues and unmet medical needs. We urge you to work with Congress to pass commonsense reforms that better protect and incentivize innovation with the greatest need and health benefits to ensure affordable access and good stewardship of taxpayer dollars. 5. Ensure True Competition. It is past time to end the rigging of the prescription drug marketplace. Brand-name drug companies, for example, should not be allowed to take actions that block generic competitors from bringing their products to market. We urge you to task the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice with aggressively enforcing laws that currently exist and push for new provisions to ensure timely entrance of generics to the marketplace. During your campaign, you promised to address the high prescription drug prices that the vast majority of Republicans and Democrats expressed as a top concern in the election. In this letter, we have listed tangible ways your Administration can lead bipartisan work on this issue and fight for the millions of Americans who rely on prescription drugs to lead healthy lives. There will be ample opportunities to make good on these promises as Congress considers the Prescription Drug, Generic Drug, and Biosimilars User Fee Agreement reauthorizations and other health-related legislative priorities, and we look forward to your leadership on this issue by steering both sides of the aisle to work together to pass concrete reforms. We stand ready to support meaningful changes to the status quo and are committed to a future when all Americans can access lifesaving treatments when they need them. We hope that you will join with Congress in living up to the expectations of the American people and prioritize this issue as President of the United States. Sincerely,
12.15.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on 2016 Fish and Wildlife Study Showing Barges Could Inadvertently Carry Asian Carp into Great Lakes Thursday, December 15, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement on results from the 2016 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service study providing further evidence that barges could inadvertently carry Asian Carp into the Great Lakes: “It is deeply alarming that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has found further evidence that barges could inadvertently carry Asian Carp through the electric barrier in the Chicago Area Waterway System. I will examine all options to prevent Asian Carp from reaching our Great Lakes in this manner.”
12.10.2016	Senate Passes Agreement to Provide Critical Help for Flint and Other Communities, Clearing Way for President’s Signature The Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act authorizes funding for Flint and other communities that was appropriated as part of the government funding bill Saturday, December 10, 2016 Congress has finally passed an agreement to provide $170 million in long-awaited assistance for Flint and other communities affected by lead. The bipartisan agreement, championed by Senator Stabenow, Senator Peters and Congressman Kildee, passed the Senate 78-21 tonight as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act. This agreement closely mirrors legislation that passed the Senate in September by a margin of 95-3. It now goes to the desk of the President for his signature. The agreement provides access to $100 million in funding to help fix Flint’s drinking water infrastructure; funding to activate at least $200 million in low-interest loans to upgrade water infrastructure in communities in Michigan and across the country; $50 million to address the health care needs of children who have been exposed to lead; authority for the State of Michigan to forgive $20 million in past drinking water loans to Flint; and a requirement that EPA warn the public within 24 hours of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so. “This is a very long, hard-fought victory,” said Senator Stabenow. “This agreement achieves what we set out to accomplish from the beginning—pass urgently needed funding to help repair and replace drinking water infrastructure in Flint and other communities, and address the health care needs of children and families. The people of Flint have waited far too long throughout this terrible crisis for their water system to be fixed. It is also past time for the State of Michigan to do everything in its power to meet its responsibilities to help the city recover from the water crisis.” "Though the State of Michigan has the primary responsibility to support long-term recovery efforts in Flint, the federal government should have stepped in long ago to provide emergency assistance for an American city in crisis,” said Senator Peters. “For nearly a year, Senator Stabenow, Congressman Kildee and I have fought to secure emergency assistance while many families in Flint are still living on bottled water and dealing with the negative health effects of this tragedy. I am pleased that Congress has finally followed through on the promise made to Flint residents and approved funding to help the City of Flint replace its lead-tainted pipes.” "Today's vote is welcome news, as Flint families have waited far too long for their government to provide real relief as they continue to recover from this ongoing water crisis,” said Congressman Kildee. “I am pleased that Congress has voted in a bipartisan fashion to aid the city and help make critical repairs to Flint's water system, as well as provide expanded health care for those exposed to lead. Flint residents are strong and resilient people, and I know that we can recover from this man-made crisis with the appropriate resources and investments in our community." “I am thrilled that the U.S. Senate has passed a $170 million package that will help the City of Flint recover after state and federal actions left its drinking water system poisoned by lead. I especially want to thank Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, as well as Congressman Dan Kildee, for their relentless efforts to get Flint and its nearly 100,000 residents the help they need,” said Karen Weaver, Mayor of the City of Flint. “Our tap water still is not safe to drink without using a filter, an unfathomable situation for any city in this great nation. This package will help us replace far more lead-tainted pipes through my FAST Start initiative and provide resources to the thousands of Flint children who have suffered from ingesting lead-tainted water. Although we have waited far longer for this help than expected, we are grateful to the Senate and the House for providing the assistance that will help Flint residents deal with this unprecedented health crisis and gain a brighter future.” Bipartisan Agreement Summary: $100 Million Available to Help Flint Fix and Repair Water Infrastructure The agreement provides $100 million in new federal funding to the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. The State of Michigan, in collaboration with the City of Flint, can access these funds after submitting a comprehensive plan to the EPA. This funding will only be available to a community, like Flint, that received a federal emergency declaration by the President due to a public health threat from high amounts of lead in drinking water. State Option for Debt Forgiveness The State of Michigan will be given new flexibility to use funding from the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund to forgive Flint’s debts incurred prior to fiscal year 2017. Flint is currently paying interest on approximately $20 million in old Drinking Water State Revolving Fund loans. At least $200 Million in Water Infrastructure Financing Innovation Fund The agreement also provides $20 million in funding to activate at least $200 million in low-interest financing for much-needed upgrades to water infrastructure. These loans will be made possible through the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA), which will be available to communities in all states, including Michigan. $50 Million for Public Health The agreement provides $17.5 million for the Department of Health and Human Services to create a national registry to monitor health effects of children exposed to lead, and $2.5 million for an advisory committee to review ways to reduce lead exposure. Another $30 million is provided to two different federal programs that fund efforts to address the short- and long-term effects of lead poisoning, including assistance to pregnant women and new mothers, and public education on the dangers of lead exposure. This funding also provides resources to help state efforts to identify and address environmental health and public safety issues associated with lead exposure. Public Notification The agreement also includes legislation introduced by Senators Peters, Stabenow and Congressman Kildee and Congressman Upton requiring the EPA to warn the public within 24 hours of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so.
12.09.2016	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Support U.S. Manufacturers, Create More American Jobs Friday, December 09, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) joined Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) in introducing legislation amending our tax laws to support American manufacturers and to create jobs here at home. The bill makes it clear that both companies using contract manufacturers and the contract manufacturers themselves are eligible to claim tax deductions that reward domestic manufacturing activities in the United States. “We don’t have an economy or a middle class unless we make things and grow things,” said Senator Stabenow. “This bill makes a commonsense change to our tax policies that will encourage manufacturers to create more jobs here at home.” “This legislation will help ensure our tax code encourages good-paying manufacturing jobs right here in the United States,” said Senator Portman. “The IRS’s interpretation of the section 199 regulations has resulted in disputes and litigation between the IRS and contract manufacturers, and, as a result, the law’s incentive to promote domestic manufacturing has been diminished. This legislation will end those disputes so that businesses can focus on creating jobs.” “When U.S. manufacturers provide American jobs with good benefits, they should be rewarded,” said Senator Brown. “This simple fix will promote job creation by making sure American manufacturers can get the tax deduction they need to grow.” Section 199 is one of the largest tax incentives that benefits domestic manufacturing. It provides companies with a 9% deduction on their income from domestic manufacturing activities, giving those activities a lower effective tax rate and making U.S. manufacturing a more attractive investment. Under current tax law, it is unclear whether a company using a contract manufacturer or the contract manufacturer itself is eligible to claim the deduction. Senator Stabenow’s legislation would clarify tax law to allow both entities to claim the Section 199 tax incentive for domestic manufacturing.
12.08.2016	Stabenow, Peters, and Upton Announce Passage of Legislation to Honor Vietnam War Veteran James C. McCloughan The bill now goes to the desk of the President for his signature Thursday, December 08, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), and Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) announced that legislation to make Vietnam War veteran James C. McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor – the Medal of Honor – has passed in Congress as part of the National Defense Authorization Act. The National Defense Authorization Act passed the House of Representatives on December 2nd and cleared the U.S. Senate today. It now goes to the desk of the President for his signature. Photo of Private First Class James McCloughan during his service in the Army. Private First Class McCloughan, a native and current resident of South Haven, served as a medic and saved the lives of 10 members of his platoon who were wounded during the Battle of Nui Yon Hill on May 13-15, 1969. McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5). “We are deeply grateful for Private First Class James McCloughan’s service to our country,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today, we are one step closer to awarding him the long overdue recognition he deserves.” “Private First Class James McCloughan put his life on the line to save his fellow servicemembers, and the passage of this legislation will help ensure his bravery and sacrifice are properly recognized.” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “This has been a long-time coming,” said Congressman Upton. “And now, thanks to our bipartisan efforts in the House and Senate, we’re closer than ever to getting Private First Class McCloughan, and his family, the recognition he duly earned on the battlefield.” Photo of Private First Class James “Doc” McCloughan Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The Department of Defense recently recommended that James McCloughan receive this honor. This legislation waives the five-year requirement and when signed into law, will make it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to him. Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, The National Defense Medal, The Good Conduct Medal, The Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, The Vietnam Campaign Medal, The Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge.
12.07.2016	Senator Stabenow Applauds Announcement that Selfridge Air National Guard Base is a Finalist for New F-35 Platform Wednesday, December 07, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow applauded the U.S. Air Force announcement that Selfridge Air National Guard Base has been selected as one of five finalists for the new F-35 fighter platform. The Air Force will be making site visits early next year with a final decision to follow. “There is no question that Selfridge Air National Guard Base is the right choice for the new F-35 platform, and it is not surprising Selfridge is on the final list for consideration. I recently spoke with the Secretary of the Air Force about how our Airmen are well-suited for a new fighter mission and the vital role they have in protecting our nation. I strongly encourage the Air Force to select Selfridge for this new mission, which will secure the future of the installation and the thousands of jobs it supports for decades to come.” ###
12.02.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Senate Passage of Legislation to Honor Michigan Veteran Bill Would Name Traverse City VA Clinic for Medal of Honor Recipient and Traverse City Area Native Colonel Demas T. Craw Friday, December 02, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded unanimous Senate passage of legislation they introduced to name the Traverse City Veterans Affairs (VA) Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) after Army Colonel Demas T. Craw, a Traverse City-area native and Medal of Honor recipient. The bill now heads to the House of Representatives, where Congressman Benishek has introduced similar legislation. “Naming this clinic after one of Traverse City's own heroes is a fitting tribute to Colonel Craw and to the thousands of local veterans who will receive care at this facility,” said Senator Stabenow. “It represents the commitment and fulfillment of promises we have made to our veterans.” “Colonel Demas Craw laid his life on the line and made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “Naming this clinic in his honor will ensure Colonel Craw’s legacy of patriotism and selflessness endures for years to come.” A Traverse City based VA health clinic is scheduled to be built and completed in 2017, replacing the current undersized facility. The new clinic will provide additional health care services for thousands of Northern Michigan veterans from Antrim, Benzie, Grand Traverse, Kalkaska, Lake, Leelanau and Manistee counties. Colonel Craw was born in 1900 near Traverse City in Long Lake Township, and attended Traverse City Central High School before enlisting in the U.S. Army in 1918. Craw served in both World Wars, graduated from the U.S. Military Academy, and rose to the rank of Colonel. During World War II, Craw served in the U.S. Army Air Service as a military attaché to Greece where he reportedly came under fire 136 times and participated in 21 Royal Air Force bombing sorties. He received numerous commendations for his career of service, including the WWI and WWII Victory Medals, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, and the Purple Heart. Craw was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor after he was killed in action near Port Lyautey, French-Morocco in November 1942 while attempting to broker a cease-fire. A broad coalition of veterans groups support naming the Traverse City VA Clinic after Colonel Craw, including the Grand Traverse Area Veterans Coalition, VFW Cherryland Post #2780 and Auxiliary, Fife Lake American Legion Post #219, Michigan American Legion Post #35, the Northwestern Michigan Chapter of Military Officers Association of America, American Military League Post #1, and Northwestern Michigan College. ###
11.30.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on EPA Emissions Standards Announcement Wednesday, November 30, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following the announcement by the Environmental Protection Agency that it will leave in place emissions standards for cars and light trucks through 2025: “Today I spoke with Administration officials and expressed concerns about the Environmental Protection Agency’s process in developing today’s proposal. It’s critical that federal regulators work closely with industry and all stakeholders before the final standards are issued to ensure emission requirements are based on sound science, are achievable, and are in the best interest of Michigan workers and consumers.”
11.29.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Nomination of Rep. Price as Secretary of Health and Human Services Tuesday, November 29, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, released the following statement on the nomination of Congressman Tom Price to be Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: “I am deeply concerned by the nomination of Rep. Tom Price to lead HHS, someone who supports dismantling Medicare and Medicaid, slashing Social Security, gutting women’s health services, eliminating healthcare for 20 million people and eliminating critical patient protections for everyone with health insurance. It is vital that whoever leads the Department of Health and Human Services is dedicated to protecting the health of all Americans. Tom Price’s nomination raises serious questions about how our country will continue providing quality, affordable healthcare for millions of American families going forward.”
11.21.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Big Rapids Monday, November 21, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in Big Rapids as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Old Pioneer Store & Emporium, Schuberg’s Bar & Grill, and Great Lakes Book & Supply. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has included stops in Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant, South Haven, Bangor, St. Johns, Imlay City, Lapeer, Battle Creek, Albion, Portland, Ionia, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “When we buy local, whether it’s from a neighborhood book store, restaurant, or gift shop, it’s a win for our economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to meet these innovative and resilient business owners.” “It comes as no surprise to my community that The Band of Locals are champions for our local small business and we appreciate Senator Stabenow visiting our community,” said Carlleen Rose, Owner of Old Pioneer Store & Emporium. “It was a great honor to meet Senator Stabenow and have her come to our humble restaurant and speak with our patrons,” said Jennifer Rumsey, Owner of Schuberg’s Bar & Grill. “People were so pleased to meet Senator Stabenow,” said Lynn Anderson, Owner of Great Lakes Book & Supply. “We were honored to have her stop by and we appreciate the support she gives the area.” ###
11.21.2016	Stabenow, Peters, Dingell Join Michigan Officials to Break Ground on American Center for Mobility at Willow Run Monday, November 21, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI) and Gary Peters (MI) and U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Governor Rick Snyder, state officials and leaders in automotive technology to celebrate the groundbreaking of the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run, a global center for testing, education and product development for connected and automated vehicles. “I am so excited to break ground on this new facility that will secure Michigan’s future as a leader in autonomous and connected vehicles,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today’s celebration is another example of the big things Michigan can achieve when we work together. I look forward to a continued partnership with Senator Gary Peters and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell as well as federal, state and industry leaders as we look ahead to the future of the industry that built the American middle class.” “Today’s groundbreaking is a significant step forward in ensuring the American Center for Mobility will keep Michigan and the United States at the forefront of advanced vehicle technologies,” said Senator Peters. “I’ve been proud to be involved in this project since its conception, and this world-class testing facility will bring together automakers, suppliers and researchers to develop and validate the vehicles of the future.” “Today is a great step forward for Michigan and the auto industry,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Connected and automated vehicles will revolutionize transportation and mobility over the next decade, and this state-of-the-art facility will help ensure that the technology of the future is developed right here in Michigan. We have the automotive know-how to lead the world in mobility innovation, and the American Center for Mobility will keep us at the forefront of that effort.” The American Center for Mobility, located at the former Willow Run Site in Ypsilanti Township, will be a purpose-built facility designed for research, education, testing, standards-convening, product development, validation and self-certification for connected and automated technologies as well as future mobility. ###
11.17.2016	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Legislation to Honor Michigan Veteran by Naming Traverse City VA Clinic Colonel Demas T. Craw Was a Medal of Honor Recipient and Traverse City Area Native Thursday, November 17, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today introduced legislation to name the Traverse City Veterans Affairs (VA) Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) after Army Colonel Demas T. Craw, a Traverse City-area native and Medal of Honor recipient, who fought in both World War I and II. The VA CBOC in Traverse City provides health care services for thousands of Northern Michigan veterans every year, including primary care, women’s health, disease prevention and telehealth services. Once constructed, the new facility will also offer mental health, physical therapy and home-based primary care services. Congressman Dan Benishek (MI-01) introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives earlier this year. “This clinic represents the commitment we have made to keep our promises to our veterans,” said Senator Stabenow. “Naming this clinic after one of Traverse City's own heroes is a fitting tribute to Colonel Craw and to the thousands of local veterans who will receive care at this facility.” “Colonel Demas T. Craw is a Michigan hero who served in two World Wars and gave his life in service to our nation,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “Honoring Colonel Craw by naming his hometown Traverse City Community Based Outpatient Clinic after him is a fitting tribute to his service and stands as a reminder of the sacrifice that so many Michigan veterans have made for our nation.” “Renaming the Traverse City VA Clinic was a local undertaking from the start,” said Rep. Benishek. “Veterans organizations and impassioned citizens came together to raise awareness about the legacy of Colonel Craw and his sacrifice. Because of their efforts, the Traverse City Clinic will stand as a testament not only to Colonel Craw, but to the spirit and dedication of Northern Michigan’s veterans.” Colonel Craw was born in 1900 near Traverse City in Long Lake Township, and attended Traverse City Central High School before enlisting in the U.S. Army in 1918. Craw served in both World Wars, graduated from the U.S. Military Academy, and rose to the rank of Colonel. During World War II, Craw served in the U.S. Army Air Service as a military attaché to Greece where he reportedly came under fire 136 times and participated in 21 Royal Air Force bombing sorties. He received numerous commendations for his career of service, including the WWI and WWII Victory Medals, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, and the Purple Heart. Craw was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor after he was killed in action near Port Lyautey, France in November 1942 while attempting to broker a cease-fire. A broad coalition of veterans groups support naming the Traverse City CBOC after Colonel Craw, including the Grand Traverse Area Veterans Coalition, VFW Cherryland Post #2780 and Auxiliary, Fife Lake American Legion Post #219, Michigan American Legion Post #35, the Northwestern Michigan Chapter of Military Officers Association of America, American Military League Post #1, and Northwestern Michigan College. ###
11.16.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Selection as Chair of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee Wednesday, November 16, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following her selection to replace Senator Schumer as Chair of the Senate Democratic Policy and Communications Committee: "I am honored to be selected as the new Chair of the Senate Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. Our Caucus is unified and committed to fighting for middle class families every day in an economy where too many people feel that they have been left behind. This is an important leadership role that will continue to give Michigan families a strong voice at the table as we work to ensure that every family has a fair shot to get ahead. I look forward to serving with my colleagues and our new Leader Senator Schumer in this new position." Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) was selected to replace Stabenow as the Vice Chair of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee.
11.15.2016	Stabenow, Peters, Kildee Applaud Decision to Fund Lead Removal in Flint and Other Michigan Communities Tuesday, November 15, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), and Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) released a statement applauding the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid’s approval of funding for lead detection and removal in Flint and communities across the State of Michigan. The State of Michigan will now be able to use approximately $24 million this year and up to that same amount over the next four years to pay for lead abatement services such as testing, paint removal and soil removal in eligible homes. “Today’s decision is critical to the health and safety of children and families in Flint and across Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “This announcement is an important reminder that the crisis in Flint is far from over.” “Flint’s children, who are especially vulnerable to lead exposure, have suffered the most from this devastating water crisis, and I applaud the Administration for taking another step to provide much needed relief for the people of Flint,” said Senator Peters. “This commitment by CMS will continue helping Flint families by providing significant resources to fund the removal of lead from homes and help protect children’s health. This is a positive step forward to help put the City of Flint back on track for a successful future.” “Families in my hometown of Flint are struggling with the harmful effects of lead poisoning every day, and this funding will help eliminate exposures to lead in their homes,” said Congressman Kildee. “This will have positive impact on the trajectory of children’s lives in Flint and across the state of Michigan.” To qualify for lead abatement funding through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid, a site must be the home of a Medicaid beneficiary under 19 years old or a pregnant woman. Funds can be used for abatement services such as sampling, testing, paint removal, dust clean up, soil removal, and replacement of impacted fixtures. Fixtures include things such as water features in the home, window sills, and possibly windows.
11.14.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Call for New Alpena Customs Agent in Letter to Customs and Border Protection Monday, November 14, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) sent a letter to Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Gil Kerlikowske expressing their concern regarding the loss of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agent stationed in Northeast Lower Michigan. The agent recently retired and CBP does not currently plan to replace him. “Without a border agent serving this very large geographic area, communities in this region will suffer serious economic consequences. As described in the attached letter from the Alpena Area Chamber of Commerce, not filling this position will result in Rogers City losing its Port of Entry status, and international travelers and air traffic bypassing the Alpena Airport. Commercial and recreational vessels will face new burdensome delays. As home to the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and destination for the growing Great Lakes cruise market, a lack of customs agent serving this region will also hurt local tourism,” wrote the Senators. “We urge your agency to assign a full-time agent to Northeast Lower Michigan. We know U.S. Customs and Border Protection is aware of these issues and urge you to work with the community in stationing an agent to meet the needs of this region,” the Senators went on to say. The full text of the Senators’ letter can be found below: November 10, 2016 Commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske U.S. Customs and Border Protection 1300 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20004 We are writing regarding our concern about the loss of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agent stationed in Northeast Lower Michigan. This agent recently retired and it’s our understanding that your agency does not plan to replace this agent. Without a border agent serving this very large geographic area, communities in this region will suffer serious economic consequences. As described in the attached letter from the Alpena Area Chamber of Commerce, not filling this position will result in Rogers City losing its Port of Entry status, and international travelers and air traffic bypassing the Alpena Airport. Commercial and recreational vessels will face new burdensome delays. As home to the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and destination for the growing Great Lakes cruise market, a lack of customs agent serving this region will also hurt local tourism. Local municipalities in this area are committed to partnering with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in working to continue service in this region. Alpena County is willing to donate office space at the Alpena County Regional Airport. Having an agent stationed at the airport would support the region’s significant international commerce demands and also help defray travel costs for agents traveling back and forth from Sault Ste. Marie. We urge your agency to assign a full-time agent to Northeast Lower Michigan. We know U.S. Customs and Border Protection is aware of these issues and urge you to work with the community in stationing an agent to meet the needs of this region. Thank you for your continued work to protect our nation’s northern border. We look forward to your response. Sincerely Debbie Stabenow U.S. Senator Gary Peters U.S. Senator
11.10.2016	Stabenow, Peters, and Upton Announce Legislation to Honor Vietnam War Veteran James C. McCloughan Thursday, November 10, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), and Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) announced legislation to make James C. McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor – the Medal of Honor - for his acts of heroism and valor during the Vietnam War. Then-Private First Class McCloughan, a native and current resident of South Haven, served as a medic and saved the lives of 10 members of his platoon who were wounded during the Battle of Nui Yon Hill on May 13-15, 1969. Then-Private First Class McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5). “Nearly 50 years ago, Private First Class James McCloughan acted heroically to save the lives of his fellow service members, and it’s time that he finally receives the recognition he deserves,” said Senator Stabenow. “We are deeply grateful for his heroism and service to our country.” "Private First Class James McCloughan acted without regard to his own safety to treat and rescue his fellow servicemembers in the heat of battle,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "His heroism and dedication are deserving of our nation’s highest military honor, and I thank him for his service and sacrifice.” "Private First Class James McCloughan is an American hero - there is no doubt about that," said Congressman Upton. "And after 50 years, it's time he finally receives the highest recognition for the deeds that made him a hero. Private First Class McCloughan is one of my constituents here in Southwest Michigan, and I'm honored to be joining the fight with our Senators to get this done for him and his family." Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The Department of Defense recently recommended that James McCloughan receive this honor. This legislation waives the five-year requirement and when signed into law, will make it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to him. Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, The National Defense Medal, The Good Conduct Medal, The Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, The Vietnam Campaign Medal, The Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge.
11.04.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Ithaca, Mt. Pleasant Friday, November 04, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in Ithaca and Mt. Pleasant as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Hometown Cellars Winery and Brewery, Hearthstone Oven, and Aircraft Precision Products in Ithaca before visiting Gray’s Furniture, Max and Emily’s, and Narrativality Coffee Roasters in Mt. Pleasant. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has included stops in South Haven, Bangor, St. Johns, Imlay City, Lapeer, Battle Creek, Albion, Portland, Ionia, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “When we buy local, it’s a win for our economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to meet these innovative and resilient business owners.” “We enjoyed meeting with Senator Stabenow,” said Bill Henderson, President of Aircraft Precision Products. “She was very personable, and asked thoughtful questions about our business.” “It was wonderful to have Senator Debbie Stabenow choose Gray's Furniture and Accessories as one of her stops for the small business tour in Downtown Mt. Pleasant,” said Amy Fox, Owner of Gray’s Furniture and Accessories. “We enjoyed showing her around all four floors of our family owned and operated business. Senator Stabenow was a delight to meet and we love the fact she is listening to business owners and promoting small businesses.” ###
11.03.2016	Senator Stabenow: For First Time, Medicare to Pay for New Care Plans to Provide Support to Families of Alzheimer’s patients Medicare to Begin Covering New Care Plans in 2017—Effectively Implementing Sen. Stabenow’s HOPE Act Thursday, November 03, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that for the first time Medicare will pay for new individual care plans to support Alzheimer’s patients and their families. This new coverage will begin in January, 2017. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid finalized its decision, first proposed earlier in July, to pay for the new plans, effectively implementing Senator Stabenow’s Health Outcomes, Planning and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act. The HOPE Act is coauthored by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), and Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) and cosponsored by 54 other Senators. “Today’s announcement will make a major difference in the lives of Alzheimer's patients and their loved ones who help care for them every day,” said Senator Stabenow. “My HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act called for new care plans to be developed for patients and their families, and I’m pleased Medicare will begin paying for this vital service for the first time ever in the New Year.” “The Alzheimer’s Association and our advocates have worked closely with Senator Stabenow to advance the HOPE for Alzheimer's Act and appreciate her tireless work to grow support for this critical legislation,” said Robert Egge, Chief Public Policy Officer Alzheimer's Association. “The new rule by CMS will allow healthcare practitioners to provide vital information on treatments, services and support that can positively affect quality-of-life for the individual, their family and caregivers, as outlined in the HOPE for Alzheimer's Act.” Senator Stabenow’s HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act requires Medicare to pay for an individual care plan for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients. This new benefit would encourage doctors to give a clear diagnosis to patients with Alzheimer’s disease, including information about treatment options and what medical and community services are available. ###
11.03.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Bangor, South Haven Thursday, November 03, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in Bangor and South Haven as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow met with business owners at Railroad Café and Landers Hardware in Bangor before visiting FoodTools Consolidated, Decadent Dogs Retail, and The Blueberry Store in South Haven. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has included stops in St. Johns, Imlay City, Lapeer, Battle Creek, Albion, Portland, Ionia, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “When we buy local, it’s a win for our economy,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was inspiring to meet these innovative and resilient business owners.” "Words can't express how grateful I am that Senator Stabenow was able to take time out of her busy schedule to listen to the concerns and challenges that small businesses face,” said Elizabeth Green, Owner of Railside Café. “She may be in Washington, but her heart is definitely in Michigan.” “Dennis and I enjoyed Debbie Stabenow taking time out of her busy schedule to visit her Michigan blueberry farmer friends, to sample the wonderful fruits of our labor, and discuss legislation affecting the ever-changing agri-business industry,” said Shelly Hartmann, owner of True Blue Farms and The Blueberry Store. “We enjoyed Senator Stabenow’s visit and are glad that she takes such an interest in small businesses statewide,” said Roxanne Leder, Owner of Decadent Dogs Retail. “I am very pleased Senator Stabenow made time out of her busy schedule for a tour of FoodTools,” said David Thompson, Vice President of Manufacturing at FoodTools. “Our state representatives need to perform more of these visits in an effort to transform and support Michigan’s great small businesses.” ###
11.01.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Mid-Michigan Tuesday, November 01, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with businesses in St. Johns as part of her small business tour across the state. Following a visit to Uncle Johns Cider Mill, Stabenow met with business owners at Back Alley Pet Grooming, Studio Retreat and Art Gallery, and Rehmann’s Clothing. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has included stops in Imlay City, Lapeer, Battle Creek, Albion, Portland, Ionia, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “When we support small businesses and entrepreneurs, our economy in Michigan thrives,” said Senator Stabenow. It was inspiring to meet these innovative and resilient business owners in St. Johns.” “It is very nice to have someone like Senator Stabenow who is local and appreciates small business owners,” said Brad Rehmann, Partner at Rehmann’s Clothing. “We are happy to see her taking a stance that helps grow our flourishing downtown.” ###
10.31.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Lapeer County Monday, October 31, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with small businesses in Lapeer County as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow visited Stichin’ at the Barn and Gallop Brush in Imlay City before stopping at Vidon Plastics in Lapeer. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has included stops in Battle Creek, Albion, Portland, Ionia, Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “When we support small businesses and entrepreneurs, our economy in Michigan thrives,” said Senator Stabenow. It was inspiring to meet these innovative and resilient business owners.” “The Gallop Brush team appreciated Senator Stabenow’s interest in our company’s growth and in the challenges small businesses like ours face,” said Ted Yamin, Sr., Owner of Gallop Brush. “We look forward to engaging with her in the future on ways the federal government can help manufacturers remain competitive in the global marketplace.” “We were grateful to have Sen. Stabenow pay us a visit this week, and appreciate her interest in understanding our business and the challenges we face,” said Matthew Dube, Business Development Manager of Vidon Plastics, Inc. ###
10.27.2016	Senator Stabenow Announces Support to Expand Agricultural Markets across Michigan Thursday, October 27, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, announced support to expand agricultural markets across Michigan from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Value-Added Producer Grant program, which helps farmers and growers develop marketing strategies for agricultural commodities. "Michigan agriculture supports one out of every four jobs in the state," said Senator Stabenow. "With these types of new investments, we are helping Michigan agricultural businesses expand and get more customers for their products. This type of support can help increase sales for local farmers and boost our small town economies." The Value-Added Producer Grant program was reauthorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill and is used to develop new agricultural products or create additional markets for existing ones. Stabenow’s Urban Agriculture Act of 2016 also provides new financial tools and support for value-added processing. Below are the Michigan awardees: Aurora Cellars in Suttons Bay will receive a $240,000 grant to expand their direct-to-consumer customer base. Mackinaw Trail Winery, LLC in Petoskey and Manistique will receive a $193,500 grant to increase their customer base for hard cider by 317 percent. MI Hop Alliance, LLC in Traverse City will receive a $248,000 grant to help purchase hops from the Old Mission Hop Exchange. Sunnyside Farms in Redford will receive a $49,900 grant to increase production of canned goods to accommodate for their demand. Grand Traverse Culinary Oils, LLC in Traverse City will receive a $7,000 grant to explore the feasibility of expanding their market beyond their local farmer’s markets. Iron Fish Distillery, LLC in Thompsonville will receive a $250,000 grant to process, package, and market their spirits. Algomah Acres Honey Farm in Mass City will receive a $10,500 to expand their customer base and produce 100 more gallons of mead. They also plan to begin bottling their honey soda. Petoskey Farms Vineyard & Winery, LLC in Petoskey will receive a $250,000 grant to expand their market and implement an advertisement campaign and wine club. ###
10.24.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Calhoun and Ionia Counties Monday, October 24, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with small businesses in Calhoun and Ionia Counties as part of her small business tour across the state. On Thursday, Stabenow visited Station 66, Stewart Industries, and Hall of Toys in Battle Creek before stopping at Books & More and Dickerson Music Company in Albion. On Friday, she visited The Gallery Brewery, Around the Block Quilt Shop, and The Chocolate Moose in Portland before visiting the Lamplight Grill and Promo Print & Stitches 2 in Ionia. Stabenow also visited the non-profit Bohm Theatre in Albion and the Ionia Theater in Ionia which are spurring economic growth in both communities. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has included stops in Harrison Township, Mount Clemens, Utica, Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “When we support small businesses and entrepreneurs, our economy in Michigan thrives,” said Senator Stabenow. It was inspiring to meet all of the innovative and resilient business owners all across Calhoun and Ionia Counties.” “Our team at STEWART Industries is always grateful when our lawmakers visit our facility,” said Erick Stewart, President of STEWART Industries. “The Senator’s visit today was extra special based on her support of small business here in Michigan. Centrally located here in Battle Creek, our community is poised to show the world that Battle Creek is not just about cereal, but it’s about growing diverse small businesses that add value in manufacturing and technology to the region. We believe her support along with the support of our state and local resources, establishes an environment that fosters continued growth in our Assembly, Metrology and Quality service areas. Senator Stabenow during her visit definitely showed enthusiasm in continuing to be a high-level supporter of that progressive vision.” “We were very honored that Senator Stabenow was able to take time out of her busy schedule to visit us at Albion’s historic Bohm Theatre,” said Nancy Doyal, Executive Director of Bohm Theatre. “We were really pleased that she could stop by to see how federal dollars from the USDA are helping us expand our business and improve our community.” “It was our pleasure to have Senator Stabenow visit Station 66 on her small business tour,” said Janette and Curt Tramel, Owners of Station 66. “It meant a lot that she appreciated the hard work that running a small business involves. We really enjoyed sharing the history of our building, all of our unique Michigan made products that we sell and our story of how we started our business. Thanks again, Senator Stabenow, for taking time out of your busy schedule to check out our business that we are so very proud of! “It was an exciting opportunity to show Senator Stabenow around our store and we appreciate that she went out of her way to greet our customers,” said Tom and Jamie Saintamour, Owners of the Chocolate Moose. ###
10.18.2016	Senator Stabenow Announces Nearly $1.9 Million in Support for Michigan Fruit, Vegetable, and Nursery Producers Tuesday, October 18, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced nearly $1.9 million in critical funding to support fruit, vegetable, nursery, and floriculture producers across Michigan. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award $1,887,408 million to support 20 specialty crop projects throughout the state. For a complete list of Michigan projects receiving support, please visit USDA's website here. “Today's announcement is great news for Michigan growers, who will be able to more effectively sell their products at local and regional farmers' markets, protect their crops from pests and diseases, and develop better production and food safety practices,” said Senator Stabenow. “Support for fruit, vegetable, nursery, and floriculture producers has been a top priority of mine and I will continue to work so that Michigan families have better access to local and health food options and Michigan growers have the tools they need to succeed.” In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill in history that supported specialty crops - fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products, and floriculture. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill strengthened support for specialty crops and made major investments in organic crops and local and regional food hubs.
10.17.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Support for Flint Mental Health Services Monday, October 17, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) applauded a $4,862,995 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to provide mental health and substance use disorder services for Flint residents. The Resiliency in Communities After Stress and Trauma grant provides funding for communities with children and families who are exposed to trauma through natural or man-made disasters. “Given the challenges facing Flint, these new resources come at a critical time during the city’s recovery to help individuals cope with the unprecedented stresses from this water crisis,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is yet another example of the Obama Administration continuing to work with us to bring resources and funding to help the people of Flint.” “The water crisis has affected every Flint resident, and this investment from the Department of Health and Human Services will help individuals who are most in need of mental health and substance abuse treatment,” said Senator Peters. "I applaud the Obama Administration’s commitment to supporting the Flint community on its road to recovery." The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration is focused on reducing the impact of substance use disorder and mental illness on America's communities. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.samhsa.gov/grants. ###
10.17.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Macomb County Monday, October 17, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with small businesses in Macomb County as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow started her tour in Harrison Township where she visited manufacturer, Wolverine Broach. Later, she toured Orleans Sports Café and Ardis Music in Mount Clemens before stopping by U.S.A. Tire Service, The Shamrock Pub, and Decoroom in Utica. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has also included stops in Plainwell, Paw Paw, Benton Harbor, Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St. Ignace and Escanaba. “It’s great to see all of the thriving small businesses and entrepreneurs in Macomb County,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we support local businesses, whether it’s from a neighborhood mechanic, music shop, or restaurant, it’s a win for our economy.” “We had a very productive visit with Senator Stabenow and discussed how we were able to survive a difficult economy with the help of the SBA loans and Huntington Bank,” said Bernie Aude, President of Wolverine Broach. "It was an honor to have Senator Stabenow to visit Mt. Clemens," said Paul Boone, Owner of Orleans Sports Cafe. "We cannot begin to describe our appreciation in regards to the passion that the Senator shows for small businesses throughout the state of Michigan. Her dedication to the SBA and their continued support is the only way we have been able to achieve the 20 year success that we have had at Orleans Sports Cafe and the opportunity that we now have with the, soon to be open, O'Halloran's Public House & Hall. It is refreshing to see someone in office who still considers the working class and the small business person. Those of us who strive to grow a thriving community, keep our downtown a historical marker and create a destination spot could not be more appreciative of what Senator Stabenow represents. We hope to have the privilege of a visit once again when we are open!" “We were excited to have Senator Stabenow visit our music store and our community,” said Megan Neimann, Owner of Ardis Music. “Mt. Clemens is made of wonderful small business, such as great restaurants, and unique retail/resale shops. She truly understands the importance of the arts and of small businesses.” “I really appreciate Senator Stabenow coming by to visit and talking with me about the automobile business and our priorities,” said Rick Michelon, Owner of U.S.A. Tire. “We feel so secure with the senator and Michigan could not do any better than her.” “Senator Stabenow was very interested in the issues facing my business and downtown Utica,” said Joseph Mayernick, Owner of The Shamrock Pub. “It was an honor to have here and it is good to know that there is someone who can really connect with me and my staff and understand what we are facing.” “It is a wonderful reward for a small business to be acknowledged and supported by Senator Stabenow while we are trying hard to succeed and be involved in the local business community,” said Maya and Yuly Kurlyandchik, Owners of Decoroom. ###
10.07.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $480,000 to Support Flint Schools Following Water Crisis Friday, October 07, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded the announcement of a $480,000 grant to Flint Community Schools from the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Safe and Healthy Students. The funding comes from the Project School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) grant program. This assistance will help Flint Community Schools hire staff and improve stable learning environments for students, who have been affected by lead-contaminated water. “Today's announcement is an important step in ensuring that every student in Flint Community Schools has the support they need to succeed in the classroom,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is yet another example of the Obama Administration continuing to work with us to bring resources and funding to help the people of Flint.” “The water crisis in Flint has impacted the entire community, particularly Flint's children who are more vulnerable to the negative, long-term effects of lead exposure,” said Senator Peters. “I applaud the Administration for their continued commitment to helping Flint families with federal resources as they work to recover from this devastating water crisis. This funding will ensure students in Flint can continue their education and help put the City back on the path toward a bright future.” As a result of the water crisis, Flint Community Schools has seen a significant decrease in student attendance. Flint Community Schools plans to use the assistance to hire attendance agents to work with families and the community to reduce truancy and improve attendance. The funding will also support hiring school counselors and psychologists to address mental health needs, such as emotional and social distress, within the student population. Project SERV provides funding for local educational agencies (LEAs) and institutions of higher education (IHEs) that have experienced a significant violent or traumatic event and need resources to respond, recover, and re-establish a safe environment conducive to learning. Earlier this year, Stabenow and Peters introduced legislation to expand Head Start and Early Head Start enrollment for Flint kids exposed to lead. In March, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded a one-time, $3.6 million grant to expand Head Start and Early Head Start services for preschoolers affected by Flint's lead contaminated water supply. Head Start programming is administered by local public and private nonprofit and for-profit agencies and includes child learning services in reading, math and science; nutritious meals; health and developmental screenings; oral and mental health support; behavioral and special needs services and family services. ###
10.05.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Southwest Michigan Wednesday, October 05, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with small businesses in Southwest Michigan as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow started her tour in Plainwell where she visited Plainwell Flowers, RWE Healthy Living, and Dancing Dogs Quilt Shop. Later, she toured RNS Packaging, Greg’s Paw Paw Blend, and Edgin Creations in Paw Paw before touring Vineyard 2121, Murfee’s Boutique, and Lark’s Bar-B-Que in Benton Harbor. Senator Stabenow’s small business tour has also included stops in Monroe, Jackson, Flint, Bay City, Ludington, Onaway, Grand Haven, Hastings, Holland, Muskegon, Marquette, St Ignace and Escanaba. “It’s great to see all of the thriving small businesses and entrepreneurs in Southwest Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we buy local, whether it’s from a neighborhood florist, jeweler, or restaurant, it’s a win for our economy.” “I really appreciate all that Senator Stabenow does for small business,” said Pam Porritt, Owner of Plainwell Flowers. “We were happy to tell her that through the Economic Development Administration’s Revolving Loan Fund Program, we were recently able to buy a new delivery van for our business.” “It is great to have a senator who is willing to help and visit a startup business like ours,” said Rich Daniels, Owner of RNS Packaging. “We really appreciate Senator Stabenow’s enthusiasm and were delighted to speak with her about how RNS has been a leader in sustainable packaging. “I was thrilled to be able to show Senator Stabenow all of the work that goes into our custom-made jewelry and speak with her about how small businesses operate and support each other,” said Ginger Smietana, Owner of Edgin Creations. “I was honored to have Senator Stabenow visit our store and speak with her about our exciting plans to grow our business,” said Ethel Golliday, owner of Murfee’s Boutique. “Not everyone will roll up their sleeves and make sure that your restaurant is getting the support it needs to grow and thrive,” said Marvin Raglon, one of the Partners of Lark’s Bar-B-Que. “We are extremely pleased with Senator Stabenow’s involvement and willingness to stop in, lend a hand, and discuss ways to improve our small business and others in the area.” ###
09.29.2016	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Detroit’s Eastern Market, Local Food Processing in Southeast Michigan Thursday, September 29, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, announced $250,000 for Detroit’s Eastern Market and $100,000 for Mighty Fine Poultry Processing in Ann Arbor to expand access to healthy foods and locally grown poultry in the region. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs, which help expand access to locally grown food from farmers markets and food processing facilities. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Supporting farmers markets and regional food processers makes it easier for families and businesses to buy local, which is a win for our economy and Michigan agriculture." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan last year. These grant programs help improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Eastern Market will receive $250,000 to help expand access to healthy, nutritious foods and to provide information to people about the benefits of incorporating fresh nutritious food into their diets. Mighty Fine Poultry Processing, LLC in Ann Arbor will receive $100,000 to design a poultry processing and distribution facility in Southeast Michigan, with a goal of developing new market opportunities for local poultry producers and increasing the consumption of locally grown poultry. ###
09.28.2016	Senator Stabenow: Another Major Step Forward in Finally Getting Help for Flint Wednesday, September 28, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following negotiations to address aid for Flint in the House Water Resources Development Act: "Earlier this week, the House refused to take any action to help the people of Flint. After last night's negotiations, we now have a path forward to finally pass the Water Resources Development Act with long-awaited assistance for Flint. It is critical that the House echo the strong bipartisan support that we saw for WRDA in the Senate and that action happen as soon as possible for the people of Flint. My position on the government funding bill remains the same: I will vote no on any CR that does not treat communities equally. It is wrong to ask families in Flint to wait at the back of the line again.”
09.26.2016	Senator Stabenow Announces the Urban Agriculture Act of 2016 Most Comprehensive Urban Agriculture Bill to be Introduced in Congress Will Create New Economic Opportunities, Increase Access to Healthy Foods Monday, September 26, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced the most comprehensive urban agriculture bill to be introduced in Congress. The Urban Agriculture Act of 2016 will help create new economic opportunities, giving Michigan families greater access to healthy food and creating a healthier environment in cities and towns across our state. The legislation addresses the unique needs of urban farmers by investing new resources and increasing flexibility through existing programs administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Senator Stabenow announced her legislation during a press conference at D-Town Farm in Detroit with Mayor Mike Duggan and Michigan urban agriculture leaders. “Urban agriculture is steadily growing in cities and towns across Michigan and across our country, creating new economic opportunities and safer, healthier environments,” said Senator Stabenow. “The Urban Agriculture Act will continue this momentum by helping urban farmers get started or expand their business, so they can sell more products and supply more healthy food for their neighbors.” “We have an abundance of available land in Detroit and groups like D-Town farms are putting it to productive use in a way that promotes good health and economic opportunity,” said Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan. “I hope that Sen. Stabenow's bill will help efforts like this expand and allow others to follow in their footsteps." “As we rethink how we provide food in an environmentally sustainable way for an increasingly urban population, urban agriculture is an important component,” said Malik Yakini, Executive Director of the Detroit Black Community Food Security Network. “Growing food closer to centers of population-density not only provides people with fresher, more nutrient-rich foods but also reduces the carbon released into the atmosphere by transporting food long distances. Finally, urban agriculture, and the associated businesses needed to support it, helps local economies to thrive. We appreciate Senator Stabenow's awareness of the great importance and potential of urban agriculture.” “A steady increase in the number of urban farms in the Capital City is beginning to impact health and nutrition awareness, good food access, and food security, even as it is transforming fragile neighborhoods,” said Joan Nelson, Executive Director of Allen Neighborhood Center which operates the Allen Market Place in Lansing. “The Urban Agriculture Act of 2016 will offer new resources, support, financial tools, educational and economic opportunities that will most certainly accelerate and strengthen these promising changes in urban communities throughout Michigan.” “This initiative is an important step in supporting the evolving agriculture industry. We applaud Senator Stabenow’s foresight in considering the full range of agriculture, and enacting support to meet the needs of these urban producers,” said Dave Armstrong, President and CEO of GreenStone Farm Credit Services. “GreenStone recognizes the growth of urban agriculture in Michigan, and is pleased to see the risk management, education, and expanded loan guarantees included in this Act that will all help our association to best serve the unique financing needs of urban farmers and their businesses.” “The Greening of Detroit provides a broad menu of training and employment opportunities for Detroit residents interested in planting trees, growing food, and transforming the vacant land in our city. Every summer we employ more than 180 Detroit Public School students,” said Rebecca Salminen Witt, President of The Greening of Detroit. “They water trees, plant and harvest crops, clean up neighborhoods and parks, and learn about careers in agriculture, forestry, and environmental science. We also offer a five-month, hands-on urban agriculture apprenticeship for people interested in production farming in Detroit. Other Greening training programs exist for Detroiters interested in landscaping or forestry. We appreciate Senator’s Stabenow’s commitment to urban agriculture, forestry, and the local food movement.” The Urban Agriculture Act of 2016 Creating New Economic Opportunities Agriculture Cooperatives: Expands USDA authority to support farm cooperatives in urban areas, helping urban farmers who want to form and operate an agriculture cooperative get products to market. Reduces individual financial risk and burdensome paperwork by allowing USDA loans to be managed by agriculture cooperatives. Rooftops, Vertical Farms & Indoor Production: Makes it easier for urban farms to apply for USDA farm programs and assists producers with information on operating rooftop and vertical farms. Supports access to land and production sites in urban communities through innovative conservation grants. Cutting-Edge Research: Invests $10 million for cutting-edge research to explore market opportunities for urban agriculture and develop new technologies for lowering energy and water needs. Includes national data collection and a new urban agriculture section in the Local and Regional Foods market report. Providing New Financial Tools & Support Loans: Expands existing USDA farm loan programs so urban farmers can cover new farm related activities that improve their business. Now urban farmers can use farm loans to finance food production, marketing, and value-added processing. Risk Management Tools: Provides a new affordable risk management tool for urban farmers to protect against crop losses, taking into account the risks, food prices and contracts unique to urban farms. New Urban Ag Office: Creates a new urban agriculture office at USDA to coordinate urban agriculture policies across the Department and provide urban farmers with technical assistance. Mentorship and Education: Connects urban farmers with rural farmers to provide education and mentorship support. Increasing Access to Healthy Foods Community Gardens: Invests $5 million for tools and equipment to develop community gardens that provide community-based nutrition education and donate a portion of the food grown to help feed their neighbors. Healthy Food: Creates a new pilot program that provides incentives to urban farmers who use sustainable growing practices and commit to supplying healthy food to their neighbors, connecting urban farms with families who need greater access to healthy, local foods. Creating a Healthier Environment Soil Remediation: Expands resources for technical and financial support to test and clean up contaminated soils, and invests in new research on the best practices for soil remediation. Urban Composting: Creates a pilot program to provide urban farmers access to compost while reducing food waste that would otherwise go into landfills. ###
09.22.2016	Senator Stabenow: Senate Republicans’ Government Funding Proposal Is Unacceptable Thursday, September 22, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement in reaction to Senate Republicans’ funding proposal that does not include urgently needed funding for Flint, which just passed the Senate 95-3: “Today’s government funding proposal from Senate Republicans is unacceptable. Help for Flint is fully paid-for and just passed with 95 votes in the Senate. There's no reason we cannot include urgently-needed funding for Flint - as well as for Louisiana – in the funding bill. Flint families have waited long enough.”
09.22.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Southeast Michigan Airports Thursday, September 22, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Wayne County Airport Authority will receive $20,654,150 to rehabilitate runways at the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to help maintain the structural integrity of the airport’s pavement and to minimize foreign object debris. FAA is also awarding $5 million to the Oakland County International Airport as part of the Michigan State Block Grant Program to help rehabilitate and strengthen 6,521 feet of Taxiway C, including connectors. “This funding will make traveling to and from Detroit Metro and Oakland County airports safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” "Travelers to and from Southeast Michigan count on the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport and the Oakland County International Airport for safe and reliable transportation in our state’s most populous region,” said Senator Peters. "This funding will invest in important infrastructure improvements that will facilitate efficient travel and encourage economic activity in the region.” ###
09.22.2016	Stabenow, Peters Introduced Bill Authorizing Delayed VA Medical Leases Thursday, September 22, 2016 WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters joined 17 of their colleagues in introducing legislation that would authorize leases for 24 Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) community-based outpatient clinics (CBOCs), including Michigan facilities in Ann Arbor and Pontiac. Under current law, the VA must receive specific legislative authorization to lease medical facilities with average annual rental payments in excess of $1 million, However, since 2012, Congress has not, through a regular process, authorized any VA major medical facility leases, hampering the ability of the VA to provide much-needed health care and services to veterans around the country. “Our veterans in Michigan deserve the absolute best health care,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our bill would allow the VA to expand much-needed outpatient services in Ann Arbor and Pontiac. No veteran should ever be told they need to wait for quality health care, which is why we need to authorize these leases right away.” “America’s men and women in uniform make immense sacrifices on behalf of our nation, and we must uphold our promise to stand by them both during and after their military service,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the Navy Reserve. “This legislation will help ensure veterans in Michigan and across the country are receiving the health care benefits they have earned through their service in a timely way.” In May, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters joined 13 of their colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter urging the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to authorize several VA leases, including 18 major medical facilities across 12 states that have been awaiting congressional authorization for over a year, as well as an additional six leases for facilities that must be authorized this year, including the Ann Arbor and Pontiac facilities. The two Michigan facilities will expand services and reduce congestion and wait times for Michigan veterans seeking VA health care. The proposed Ann Arbor lease will create a new 145,000 square-foot outpatient clinic to provide clinical services in support of the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. The new, larger Ann Arbor facility will help alleviate wait times and overburdened services by expanding the current primary care, mental health, and specialty care services and offer new services including women’s health services. The proposed Pontiac project will lease a new 37,619 square-foot outpatient clinic to replace and expand the current 9,900 square-foot Pontiac Community Based Outpatient Clinic, which is too small to meet the growing number of veterans seeking care at the facility. There are more than 698,000 veterans currently living in Michigan, and approximately 224,750 Michigan veterans are currently enrolled in the VA health care system.
09.19.2016	Michigan Congressional Delegation Members Join in Strong Support of Fort Custer for Missile Defense Site 15 Members of the Michigan Delegation Send Letter of Support to Director of Missile Defense Agency -- Ft. Custer One of Three Remaining Locations Under Consideration Monday, September 19, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Michigan Congressional delegation today sent a letter to Vice Admiral James D. Syring, Director of the Missile Defense Agency, to voice their strong support of Fort Custer Training Center, one of three locations under consideration for a possible Continental United States Interceptor Site. The letter was signed by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Representative Fred Upton, U.S. Senator Gary Peters, U.S. Representative Brenda Lawrence, U.S. Representative Candice Miller, U.S. Representative Mike Bishop, U.S. Representative Bill Huizenga, U.S. Representative Dan Benishek, U.S. Representative John Moolenaar, U.S. Representative Tim Walberg, U.S. Representative Dan Kildee, U.S. Representative Dave Trott, U.S. Representative Sander Levin, U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell, and U.S. Representative John Conyers. “Since 1917, Fort Custer has played an integral part in training our Armed Forces for vital national security missions. It supports over 190,000 training mandays annually, hosts nine tenants, including the Army, Marine, and Naval reserves, and stands ready to take on this new mission,” the delegation writes in the letter. “Locating the interceptor at Fort Custer would bring a welcomed $3.2 billion in economic impact, including $700 million in new construction. It would also employ 300 jobs directly and up to 1,800 support jobs. Given all of these considerations, we strongly support Fort Custer Training Center as the preferred Continental United States Interceptor Site and look forward to staying engaged as the selection process continues.” A full copy of the letter is available below. September 19, 2016 Vice Admiral James D. Syring Director, Missile Defense Agency 5700 18th Street, Bldg 245 Fort Belvoir, VA 22060 Dear Vice Admiral Syring, It’s our understanding that you have completed your assessment of the environmental impacts for a missile defense Interceptor Site at Fort Custer Training Center, one of three remaining locations under consideration. The assessment showed that the environmental impacts for placing an interceptor at Fort Custer would be minimal and that unlike the other sites, Fort Custer would not require additional surveys or cause significant harm to protected species or habitats. As you know, the community had the opportunity to meet with the Missile Defense Agency, ask questions about the draft assessment, and submit remarks before the public comment period closed on August 17. We have heard from numerous organizations and leaders in the community, and want to emphasize the strong local support for Fort Custer as the host location. Since 1917, Fort Custer has played an integral part in training our Armed Forces for vital national security missions. It supports over 190,000 training mandays annually, hosts nine tenants, including the Army, Marine, and Naval reserves, and stands ready to take on this new mission. Fort Custer has taken tremendous strides to increase its energy efficiency by installing solar fields and a wind funnel to generate electrical power. These innovative developments help make Fort Custer a cost-effective option for the interceptor site. Locating the interceptor at Fort Custer would bring a welcomed $3.2 billion in economic impact, including $700 million in new construction. It would also employ 300 jobs directly and up to 1,800 support jobs. Given all of these considerations, we strongly support Fort Custer Training Center as the preferred Continental United States Interceptor Site and look forward to staying engaged as the selection process continues. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow U.S. Representative Fred Upton U.S. Senator Gary C. Peters U.S. Representative Brenda L. Lawrence U.S. Representative Candice S. Miller U.S. Representative Mike Bishop U.S. Representative Bill Huizenga U.S. Representative Dan Benishek U.S. Representative John Moolenaar U.S. Representative Tim Walberg U.S. Representative Dan Kildee U.S. Representative Dave Trott U.S. Representative Sander Levin U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell U.S. Representative John Conyers CC: Secretary Carter ###
09.15.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Senate Passage of Water Resources Development Act that Includes Urgently Needed Assistance for Flint Senators Urge House of Representatives to Immediately Pass Legislation, Send the Bill to the President Thursday, September 15, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced Senate passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) by a vote of 95 to 3, which included their bipartisan agreement to help families in Flint and other communities across the country. The U.S. House of Representatives must now pass the legislation and send it to the President for his signature. The Stabenow-Peters agreement provides access to $100 million in funding to help repair Flint’s drinking water infrastructure; funding to activate over $1 billion in low-interest loans to upgrade water infrastructure in communities in Michigan and across the country; $50 million to address health care needs of children who have lead exposure; authority for the State of Michigan to forgive $20 million in past drinking water loans to Flint; and a requirement that EPA warn the public within 15 days of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so. “After months of working intensely with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to overcome opposition, I am extremely pleased that the Senate has finally passed urgently needed help for families in Flint,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today’s passage is an important reminder to the nation that the crisis in Flint is far from over. Today families still cannot drink the unfiltered water that comes out of their faucets! Now, our colleagues in the House need to act as quickly as possible. It's also essential that the State of Michigan fully meet their responsibilities to solve the water crisis.” “Flint residents have been living with contaminated water for far too long and are still relying on bottled water and filters for drinking, cooking and bathing,” said Senator Gary Peters. “I am pleased the Senate came together to pass this bipartisan, fully paid-for legislation to provide much-needed support for Flint families. I urge my colleagues in the House to swiftly pass similar assistance to help Flint and other communities across the country make critical investments to upgrade their aging water infrastructure. While the federal government can and should help Flint recover from this ongoing crisis, the State of Michigan must step up with sustained, long-term support for the people of Flint.” In addition to the Stabenow-Peters agreement, WRDA includes $40 million for two new programs to help communities reduce lead in drinking water systems and to help rural communities improve drinking water. The bill also authorizes $100 million in grants to test lead in drinking water at schools and child care facilities and requires the electronic reporting of drinking water data. Stabenow-Peters Agreement Summary: $100 Million Available to Help Flint Fix and Repair Water Infrastructure The Stabenow-Peters agreement provides $100 million in new federal funding to the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. The State of Michigan can access these funds after submitting a comprehensive plan to the EPA. This funding will only be available to a community, like Flint, that received a federal emergency declaration by the President due to a public health threat from high amounts of lead in drinking water. These funds can be accessed after the State of Michigan and the City of Flint submit a comprehensive plan to the EPA. State Option for Debt Forgiveness The State of Michigan will be given new flexibility to use funding from the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund to forgive Flint’s debts incurred prior to fiscal year 2016. Flint is currently paying interest on approximately $20 million in old Drinking Water State Revolving Fund loans. Over $1 Billion in Water Infrastructure Financing Innovation Fund The agreement also provides $70 million in funding to activate over $1 billion in low-interest loans to finance much-needed upgrades to water infrastructure. These loans will be made possible through the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA), which will be available to communities in all states, including Michigan. $50 Million for Public Health The agreement provides $17.5 million for the Department of Health and Human Services to create a national registry to monitor health effects of children exposed to lead, and $2.5 million for an advisory committee to review ways to reduce lead exposure. Another $30 million is provided to three different federal programs that fund efforts to address the short- and long-term effects of lead poisoning, including assistance to pregnant women and new mothers, and public education on the dangers of lead exposure. This funding also provides resources to help state efforts to identify and address environmental health and public safety issues associated with lead, mold, carbon monoxide, and radon in homes and soil. Public Notification The agreement also includes legislation introduced by Senators Peters, Stabenow and Congressman Kildee requiring the EPA to warn the public in the future of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so. The bill also allows EPA to notify residents and health departments of any results of lead monitoring, whether or not the amount of lead in the water exceeds the action level. No Cost to Taxpayers The Stabenow-Peters agreement is fully paid for by sunsetting funding for an existing program at the Department of Energy.
09.08.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Transportation Funding for Flint Thursday, September 08, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded support for the City of Flint from the Department of Transportation’s Bus and Bus Facilitates Competitive Program. The Flint Mass Transportation Authority will receive $12,800,000 in funding for the purchase of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) transit buses and a workforce development training program for mechanics and drivers. The grant will help with the purchase of approximately 23 new buses. “These 23 new buses are important news for Flint families who rely on bus transportation to get to grocery stores, schools, doctor’s appointments and work,” said Senator Stabenow. “As Flint continues to recover, this investment will help the city improve public transportation for the many families who depend on it each day.” “This exciting transportation announcement is welcome news for the people of Flint, who will greatly benefit from increased connectedness and service,” said Senator Peters. “With expanded bus service, families in Flint will have greater access to the education, health care, recreation, and employment opportunities they need to lead happy and healthy lives.” “We are extremely excited about what this means for the Flint and Genesee county community and the many people who depend on public transportation,” said Edgar H. Benning, General Manager of the Flint Mass Transportation Authority. “This funding allows us to replace busses that are 20 years old and bring in new vehicles that use compressed natural gas. These new vehicles are environmentally friendly, energy efficient and much more sustainable for our community. We are very appreciative of the work Senator Stabenow, Senator Peters and Congressman Kildee have done to support us in this effort.” The Grants for Buses and Bus Facilities program makes federal resources available to states and direct recipients to replace, rehabilitate and purchase buses and related equipment and to construct bus-related facilities including technological changes or innovations to modify low or no emission vehicles or facilities. ###
09.08.2016	Stabenow-Peters: Senate Begins Consideration of Water Resources Development Act that Includes Assistance for Flint Thursday, September 08, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) released the following statement after the Senate began consideration of the Water Resources Development Act, which includes their bipartisan Flint agreement: "We are pleased that after months of working with Republicans and Democrats, our bipartisan agreement to help Flint and other communities is now before the Senate as part of the Water Resources Development Act. We want to thank Chairman Inhofe and Ranking Member Boxer for working with us to include help for Flint in their legislation, which passed committee earlier this year. In the coming days, we will continue our effort in the Senate to finally pass this urgently-needed help for Flint families.”
09.07.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $3.7 Million Grant for Flint Firefighters Wednesday, September 07, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) announced that the City of Flint will receive $3,767,280 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program. From February 2014 to February 2016, the City of Flint lost 33 firefighters. This funding will help restore all 33 firefighters and bring the total number of firefighters in the city to 91. “Given the challenges facing Flint, these new resources come at a critical time to help with the city’s recovery,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to this grant, the city can bring 33 firefighters back to work protecting our families, homes, and neighborhoods.” “Families in Flint need our support and protection now more than ever,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased that the City of Flint will receive the funding it needs to fill firefighter vacancies and promote safety and security in the community.” “This grant is a great news for the City of Flint,” said Raymond Barton, City of Flint Fire Chief. “Thanks to the support of Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters, we will be able to add additional protection to the south side of the city and ensure that we are meeting the standards needed to safeguard our community.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to guarantee departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants. ###
09.06.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud over $863,000 for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Tuesday, September 06, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded over $863,000 for fire departments in Eastpointe, Fraser, Canton, Harrison Township, Ann Arbor, and Davisburg to purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. Eastpointe Fire and Rescue has been awarded a $127,137 grant. The City of Fraser has been awarded an $84,014 grant. The Charter Township of Canton has been awarded a $256,182 grant. The Harrison Township Fire Department has been awarded a $136,910 grant. The Springfield Township Fire Department has been awarded a $71,429 grant. The Ann Arbor Township Fire Department has been awarded an $187,941 regional grant that will be used to support the following departments: Ypsilanti Township Fire, Ypsilanti City Fire, Van Buren Township Fire, Superior Township Fire, Salem Township Fire, Manchester Township Fire, Chelsea Area Fire, Belleville City Fire, Sumpter Township Fire, Augusta Township Fire and Ann Arbor Charter Township Fire Department. “Our firefighters and first responders in Southeast Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “I am pleased that these Southeast Michigan fire departments will receive financial support to equip first responders with the tools needed to keep our communities safe from harm,” said Senator Peters. “This grant is another important step towards ensuring our neighborhoods are safe and protected for the families that call Southeast Michigan home.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
09.06.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $650,000 for Ford Airport Tuesday, September 06, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that Dickinson County will receive $650,000 to rehabilitate runways at the Ford Airport. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. “This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Ensuring Michigan airports have modern infrastructure is important for the well-being of travelers, as well as economic growth,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased that this funding will help upgrade the airport’s runway to promote safe air travel and increase tourism and commerce in the Upper Peninsula.” The Runway Incursion Management program helps airports reduce the risk of runway incursions. Incursions occur when an aircraft, vehicle, or person enters the protected area of an airport designated for aircraft landings and take offs. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/. ###
09.06.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $127,000 in Support for Eastpointe Fire and Rescue Tuesday, September 06, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $127,137 for Eastpointe Fire and Rescue to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters and first responders in Eastpointe put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “I am pleased that Eastpointe Fire and Rescue will receive financial support to equip first responders with the tools needed to keep our communities safe from harm,” said Senator Peters. “This grant is another important step towards ensuring our neighborhoods are safe and protected for the families that call Eastpointe home.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
09.02.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Fire Prevention Support for Three Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Friday, September 02, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded support for three Southeast Michigan fire departments from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Fire Prevention & Safety program. The Farmington Hills Fire Department Safety Officers Association will receive $1,500,000, the City of Dearborn will receive $168,077, and the Trenton Fire Department will receive $16,310 for fire prevention projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards. “Our firefighters in Southeast Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Prevention is key and these resources will help save lives and the treasured possessions of so many families.” “It is essential that both first responders and the communities they serve have the necessary resources to protect themselves during an emergency,” Senator Peters said. “This funding will help ensure that firefighters in Southeast Michigan can continue promoting life-saving fire prevention efforts and public safety projects.” The Fire Prevention & Safety grant program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about these grants can be found here. ###
09.02.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Support for Two Oakland County Fire Departments Friday, September 02, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded that two Oakland County fire departments have been awarded assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help with hiring, recruitment and retention of firefighters. The Waterford Regional Fire Department will receive $8,591,980, and the North Oakland County Fire Authority will receive $491,634 from FEMA’s Staffing Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Waterford Regional Fire Department and the North Oakland County Fire Authority make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Oakland County families and communities depend on their fire departments to keep them safe,” said Senator Peters. “Having fully staffed departments and properly trained firefighters are critical to ensure the well-being of the Michiganders they serve.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for SAFER grants. These competitive grants provide money to guarantee departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found by clicking here. ###
09.02.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Fire Prevention Support for the City of Mt. Morris Fire Department Friday, September 02, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded support for the City of Mt. Morris Fire Department from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Fire Prevention & Safety program. The City of Mt. Morris Fire Department will receive $51,363 for fire prevention projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards. “Our firefighters in Mt. Morris put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Prevention is key and these resources will help save lives and the treasured possessions of so many families.” “It is essential that both first responders and the communities they serve have the necessary resources to protect themselves during an emergency,” Senator Peters said. “This funding will help ensure that firefighters in Mt. Morris can continue promoting life-saving fire prevention efforts and public safety projects.” The Fire Prevention & Safety program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about these grants can be found here. ###
08.30.2016	Senator Stabenow Applauds $429,000 for Tribal Colleges in Mid-Michigan and the Upper Peninsula Tuesday, August 30, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow applauded $429,000 for tribal colleges in Isabella, Chippewa, and Baraga Counties from the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development program. This grant comes from the Tribal College Initiative Grant program which provides funding to tribal colleges to make capital improvements to their educational facilities and to purchase equipment. Keweenaw Bay Ojibwa Community College will receive $143,000 to make campus improvements. Bay Mills Community College will receive $143,000 to purchase early learning and business equipment. Saginaw Chippewa Tribal College will receive $143,000 to upgrade classroom technology and purchase new library equipment, fixtures and furniture. “This investment will help our students receive a quality education and learn the skills they need to earn a good-paying job after graduation,” said Senator Stabenow. “This announcement underscores USDA’s important partnership with tribal communities to support education and economic development.” “We greatly appreciate Senator Stabenow and the availability of this funding, as it provides much needed support for college infrastructure and services," said Michael C. Parish, President of the Bay Mills Community College. "This year’s funding will be used to support student services through the provision of laptops and calculators which can be loaned to those students needing the technology. In addition, the Waishkey Bay farm will see significant upgrades, including those made to the barn, classroom building and outbuildings. Our main classroom facility will receive new tables and chairs, as well as some office furniture and laptop computers for student use. Our IT department will utilize funds to upgrade computer networking and firewalls." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program. More information about the Tribal College Initiative Grant Program can be found at http://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/tribal-college-initiative-grants. ###
08.25.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce $990,000 for Alpena County Regional Airport Thursday, August 25, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Alpena County will receive an initial $990,000 in federal funding to help with the construction of a new terminal building at the Alpena County Regional Airport. The money will go toward the design of the terminal, which is the first of three phases in the construction process. The planned 18,000 square foot terminal will accommodate modern security needs and support increased passenger traffic. “This new terminal will make travelling to and from Alpena safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Ensuring Michigan airports have modern infrastructure is important for the well-being of travelers, as well as economic growth,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased that this funding will help upgrade the airport’s facilities to promote safe air travel and increase tourism and commerce in Alpena.” “This money is crucial for the design and construction of the new terminal that increases safety and helps in our pursuit of more passenger traffic and additional airline carriers,” said Alpena County Regional Airport Manager Steven Smigelski. “On behalf of the people of Alpena County and the County Board of Commissioners, I thank Senators Stabenow and Peters for their continued support of the Alpena County Regional Airport. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. The program helps to identify, prioritize, and develop strategies to help airport sponsors mitigate risk. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/. ###
08.25.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses in Monroe, Jackson Thursday, August 25, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with small businesses in Monroe and Jackson as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow toured Gerdau Steel, Deb’s Flowers & Gifts, and Phoenix Theater in Monroe before touring Grand River Brewery, Chilango’s and Gilbert Chocolates in Jackson. Stabenow also attended a briefing with community officials in Jackson highlighting a federal $50,000 National Endowment for the Arts award for the Glidden Parker Mural project to spur the revitalization of downtown Jackson. Stabenow’s tour has included business stops in the Great Lakes Bay region, West Michigan, the Upper Peninsula and Northern Michigan. “It’s great to see all of the thriving small businesses and entrepreneurs in Monroe and Jackson,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we buy local, whether it’s from a neighborhood store, restaurant, or movie theater, it’s a win for our economy.” “Senator Stabenow appreciates the commitment we have to creating long term relationships with our customers,” said Deb Staelgraeve, owner of Deb’s Flowers and Gifts. “It was an honor to have her in our store because she is a true friend to small businesses.” “It was a big deal to have Senator Stabenow come to our theater today, especially before the opening,” said Cory Jacobson, owner of Phoenix Theatres. “She understands the kinds of support I need as a small business owner who is looking to grow and expand across Michigan.” “We are very excited to move our chocolate factory to downtown Jackson starting August 29,” said Brian Krichbaum, owner of Gilbert Chocolates. “It was a pleasure to give Senator Stabenow a sneak peek at how we are turning this old pizzeria into this new production facility and retail chocolate store.” ###
08.24.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Bay City Small Businesses, Saginaw Farmers Market Wednesday, August 24, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with small businesses and food entrepreneurs in Bay City and Saginaw as part of her small business tour across the state. Stabenow toured St. Laurent Bros. candy shop, Ferne Boutique and Tavern 101 in Bay City. In Saginaw, Stabenow also toured the Downtown Saginaw Farmers’ Market. Stabenow’s tour has also included business stops in West Michigan, the Upper Peninsula and Northern Michigan. “It’s great to see all of the thriving small businesses and food entrepreneurs in downtown Bay City and Saginaw,” said Senator Stabenow. “When we buy local, whether it’s from a neighborhood store, restaurant, or farmers market, it’s a win for our economy.” “We were elated to have Senator Stabenow stop by our store, listen to our concerns and show her support for small businesses like ours,” said Steve Frye, owner of St. Laurent Bros. “It was great to hear Senator Stabenow’s perspective and support for small businesses,” said Laura Horwath, owner of Ferne Boutique. “We can’t wait for more people to see how much downtown has and continues to grow.” “It is prime time for fresh food here at the farmers’ market,” said Shelly McGeathy, Executive Director of the Downtown Saginaw Farmers’ Market.” We were very excited to discuss our new facility with Senator Stabenow and showcase our talented vendors.” ###
08.24.2016	Stabenow Announces Over $150,000 to Increase Access to Fresh Fruits and Vegetables for Schools in Flint and Genesee County Wednesday, August 24, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that the Michigan Department of Education will receive $158,750 to help nine additional schools in Flint and Genesee County provide a fresh fruit or vegetable snack to students during the school day. Earlier this year, 24 area schools received over $400,000 for the 2016-2017 school year through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program. With the additional funding announced today, all of the eligible schools in Flint and Genesee County (a total of 33 with at least 50 percent of students participating in free or reduced lunch) can offer students an additional fresh fruit or vegetable snack in the upcoming school year. “Now more than ever, children in Flint need to be eating more healthy fruits and vegetables to help reduce the effects of lead,” said Senator Stabenow. “This additional funding will help our local schools provide an extra fruit or vegetable snack to children who need it most during the day.” Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow worked with the USDA to expand summer meals for thousands of Flint and Genesee County children. She has also introduced the Improving Child Nutrition Integrity and Access Act to protect crucial nutrition standards in schools, expand support for mothers and infants through WIC, and further expand access to summer meals. The bill passed the Senate Agriculture Committee unanimously in January and is currently waiting for a full Senate vote. ###
08.23.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Wayne Fire Department Tuesday, August 23, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded $994,848 in assistance for the Wayne Fire Department to support the recruitment and retention of firefighters. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Wayne Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “When an emergency situation arises, it is imperative that we have enough first responders on the job to protect our families and communities,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help the Wayne Fire Department be fully staffed and prepared in case of an emergency and ensure the safety of the community and their firefighters.” The SAFER program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Management Agency (FEMA) and works to strengthen communities’ ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness, including maintaining 24-hour staffing. ###
08.23.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Grand Rapids Fire Department Tuesday, August 23, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Grand Rapids Fire Department to help increase public safety through fire prevention and preparedness. This $189,143 grant comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Fire Prevention and Safety program and will support general education, awareness, and research, including risk assessments, fire code enforcement, smoke alarms, and database systems. “Our firefighters in Grand Rapids put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Prevention is key and these resources will help save lives and the treasured possessions of so many families.” “Preparedness is key when a community is faced with a fire-related emergency that requires swift action,” Senator Peters said. “Thanks to these funds, members of the public will benefit from increased access to the resources and training needed to prevent and respond to fires.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. Fire prevention grants enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant program can be found here. ###
08.23.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Businesses in West Michigan Tuesday, August 23, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow toured businesses in Holland and Grand Haven as part of her business tour across the state. During her visit to West Michigan, Stabenow toured the Kraft Heinz Company’s Holland facility, antenna systems manufacturer RAMI (R.A. Miller Industries Inc.), and boating manufacturer Tiara Yachts. Stabenow’s tour has also included business stops in Muskegon, the Upper Peninsula and Northern Michigan. “We do not have an economy in Michigan or a middle class unless we make things and grow things and that is what our entrepreneurs do every day,” said Senator Stabenow. “It’s inspiring to see first-hand the work ethic, innovation, and resilience of workers and businesses here in West Michigan.” “We were pleased to host Senator Stabenow at our Holland plant today, and update her on our plans to move all of our Grey Poupon production to this facility, as part of a $17 million investment,” said Michael Mullen, SVP of Corporate & Government Affairs for the Kraft Heinz Company. “Operating in this location since 1897, Kraft Heinz continues to be proud to be part of this Western Michigan community.” “We appreciate Senator Stabenow taking the time to visit RAMI during her business tour,” said Michael Voevodsky, CEO of RAMI Group. “It was an ideal opportunity to show her the mission critical antenna systems we design, manufacture and supply to the U.S. military, heavy transportation, and aviation industries.” “It’s so important when constituents can spend the time to show our Senator the manufacturing floor, show her the jobs we are creating, and explain the challenges we face,” said David Slikkers, Director of Government Affairs for Tiara Yachts. “Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of manufacturing, knows the importance of manufacturing, and simply gets it.” Michigan’s food-processing businesses generate nearly $25 billion in economic activity and employ more than 130,000 residents. Earlier this year, Kraft Heinz announced that Grey Poupon would be produced in Michigan, a project that would create 50 jobs in Holland and generate $17.2 million in private investment. Michigan’s defense industry supports over 100,000 jobs and has an economic impact of $9 billion ($2.4 billion in defense contracts). RAMI is a world class supplier of advanced antenna systems and accessories to military, aviation, and transportation customers worldwide. RAMI has been engineering and manufacturing antenna systems for the United States military since 1956. According to the Michigan Boating Industry Association, Michigan is the third largest marine market in the county, with businesses supporting over 40,000 jobs and contributing $7.4 billion to the state’s economy each year. Tiara Yachts is a family owned business that started building sailboats in 1974 and is now manufacturing powerboats. ###
08.22.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce $69,480 Investment for Veterans Housing in Grand Rapids Monday, August 22, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $69,480 investment to provide assistance to help end veteran homelessness in West Michigan. The assistance is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. The funding will go to the Kent County Housing Commission, which will work with the Battle Creek VA Medical Center and the Wyoming VA Health Care Center to support homeless veterans. "Michigan's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of our country and our citizens," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help our heroes in Kent County find a permanent place to call home.” “Our men and women in uniform are willing to give the ultimate sacrifice to defend our country, and it is our duty to support and care for them when they return home,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “On any given night, there are nearly 40,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads. This assistance will help homeless veterans in West Michigan find a permanent home, and help keep our promise to support our veterans and their families during and after their service.” The HUD-VASH program combines rental assistance vouchers from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by the VA to help homeless veterans find and keep permanent housing. VA Medical Centers are responsible for assessing homeless veterans and referring them to local housing agencies for rental vouchers. Vouchers are awarded based on an individual’s duration of homelessness and need for long-term support to maintain permanent housing. Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters strongly supports efforts to help Michigan veterans. The Senate recently passed his amendment to help veterans who may have been erroneously given a less than honorable discharge from the military due to behavior resulting from mental traumas such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). He has also called for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that work to end veteran homelessness. ###
08.17.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce $131,191 for Friends of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary Wednesday, August 17, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is awarding a $131,191 grant to the Friends of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary. The grant will support a diverse, interdisciplinary team that will use advanced technology to locate and rapidly assess additional cultural sites underwater within Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary. "The Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary has attracted families and divers from across the state and throughout the world to discover and explore our rich maritime heritage," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This funding will help researchers better understand how we can protect the sanctuary for future generations.” “Our precious Great Lakes are home to a rich maritime past, and the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary is a shining example of Michigan’s incredible underwater history and heritage,” said Senator Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “I am pleased that this funding will help develop new technology to protect, preserve and enhance Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary, while supporting tourism opportunities that boost our state’s economy.” "This expedition will help us better protect the Great Lakes and their rich history,” said Jeff Gray, Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary Superintendent. “Using cutting-edge technology, our team of partners will be mapping large areas of Lake Huron, making new discoveries, and documenting important historic shipwrecks." Located in Lake Huron, Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary was established in 2000 to protect one of the nation’s most historically significant collections of shipwrecks. In 2014, the sanctuary expanded from 448 to 4,300 square miles, making it the nation’s largest marine protected area focused on underwater cultural heritage sites. Within this new boundary are 93 known shipwreck sites, while historic research indicates as many 100 additional sites in the area remain undiscovered. However, the diverse underwater geography of the expansion area makes it difficult to assess with traditional survey and site assessment tools such as sonar and marine magnetometer. The new funding will help develop innovative methods for locating and rapidly assessing cultural sites in shallow and deep water with cutting edge equipment and techniques. The deep water survey segment will look for the historically significant wreck of steamer Choctaw, while the shallower survey will focus on known “ship traps.” Last year, Stabenow and Peters introduced bipartisan legislation to recognize historically significant underwater areas in the Great Lakes as National Marine Sanctuaries, which would also increase tourism and boost Michigan’s economy. The Great Lakes Maritime Heritage Assessment Act aims to build on the success of Thunder Bay by directing the Administrator of the NOAA to recommend the designation of national marine sanctuaries in the Great Lakes. Marine sanctuaries provide significant educational opportunities and economic development in the regions where they are located. ###
08.16.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for City of Auburn Hills Fire Department Tuesday, August 16, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that City of Auburn Hills Fire Department will receive a $1,204,280 grant to support the recruitment and hiring of firefighters. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Auburn Hills Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “An emergency situation can arise at any time, so we must ensure that we have trained first responders on the job and ready to go,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help the Auburn Hills Fire Department remain well-staffed and prepared to keep our families and businesses safe from harm.” The SAFER program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Management Agency (FEMA) and works to strengthen communities’ ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness, including maintaining 24-hour staffing. These awards go directly to fire departments and volunteer support groups to expand the number of firefighters available for emergency response. ###
08.11.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $2.2 Million for Two Airports in the Upper Peninsula and Northern Michigan Thursday, August 11, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that two airports in Michigan will receive funding to rehabilitate runways and install a runway guidance system. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. The City of Charlevoix will receive $1,253,196 to rehabilitate runways and install a runway guidance system at the Charlevoix Municipal Airport. The Economic Development Corporation of Chippewa County will receive $952,850 to rehabilitate runways and purchase snow removal equipment at the Chippewa County International Airport. “This investment will make travelling to and from Michigan safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Travelers to and from Michigan rely on the Charlevoix Municipal Airport and Chippewa County International Airport for safe and dependable transportation,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help the airport improve overall safety and operations and spur greater economic activity in the region.” The Runway Incursion Management program helps airports reduce the risk of runway incursions. Incursions occur when an aircraft, vehicle, or person enters the protected area of an airport designated for aircraft landings and take offs. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/. ###
08.09.2016	Senator Stabenow, SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet Promote Small Business Resources for Hispanic Business Leaders and Entrepreneurs Tuesday, August 09, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and the Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration, Maria Contreras-Sweet, today promoted resources available for small businesses during roundtable discussions with Hispanic business leaders and entrepreneurs in Detroit, Lansing, and Grand Rapids. In 2015 alone, the Small Business administration provided over 2,600 loans in Michigan totaling over $750 million. Last year, the SBA hosted over 200 outreach visits and training events to make sure Michigan entrepreneurs have the resources they need to grow their small businesses. “Small businesses are the backbone of Michigan’s economy and create the majority of new jobs,” said Senator Stabenow. “When entrepreneurs have access to the right resources they can grow their businesses and hire workers. Thanks to Administrator Contreras-Sweet for coming today to support and encourage business growth here in Michigan.” Administrator Contreras-Sweet was sworn in as the Administrator of the SBA and as a member of President Obama’s cabinet on April 7, 2014. As a business leader, California state cabinet official, and entrepreneur, Contreras-Sweet’s achievements in bringing efficiencies and modernization to large scale organizations have earned her international acclaim. “Senator Stabenow is a stalwart advocate for Michigan’s small businesses and entrepreneurs,” said Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet. “I was delighted to join her in Detroit, Grand Rapids and Lansing today to highlight the critical role that Hispanic-Americans – 55 million strong and 17 percent of our population – increasingly play in our nation’s economy and our prospects for continued growth. The Hispanic consumer market in the U.S. is worth $1.2 trillion, which is more than the national economies of all but 13 countries and there are more than 3.3 million Hispanic-owned businesses in the U.S. SBA and our capital, mentorship, and contracting programs are at the ready for Hispanic entrepreneurs and small business owners across Michigan and beyond to launch a business and chart their own destiny.” “The Hispanic community in Michigan has an increasing purchasing power exceeding $9.8 billion with 11K Hispanic owned businesses moving the state’s economy forward,” said Camilo Suero, Executive Director of the Michigan Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “SBA is vital for the Hispanic entrepreneurial spirit which has been growing businesses at a rate 15 times higher than all US firms. We appreciated the opportunity to showcase the success of our HBEs in Michigan and listen to Maria Contreras-Sweet and Senator Stabenow on their plans to bring more business opportunities to Michigan and to our HBEs.” "We appreciate all the work Senator Stabenow has done to help small business in our community thrive," said Jose Yanez, President of the Greater Lansing Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. "Not only do Latino owned businesses play a vital role in the overall economic growth of our communities but we also strive to serve as mentors and positive role models." "The West Michigan Hispanic Chamber of Commerce exists to support small Hispanic businesses by providing access to resources that will assist in the sustainability of such business,” said Jorge Gonzalez, Executive Director of the West Michigan Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “We are thankful that the Office of Senator Stabenow and the Office of the US SBA Administrator partnered with our Chamber to host this important town hall meeting and discuss how the SBA can support Hispanic Owned Businesses in West Michigan."
07.29.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud $20 Million Transportation Grant for City of Flint Friday, July 29, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) applaud the announcement that the City of Flint will receive $20 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program to repair roads that are damaged after replacing underground drinking water mains in Flint. This program provides critical infrastructure funding to invest in local transportation projects designed to strengthen the economy, increase commerce, and achieve critical national policy objectives. “Today's announcement is great news and an important step in fixing and replacing Flint’s water infrastructure,” said Senator Stabenow. “This is yet another example of the Obama Administration continuing to work with us to bring resources and funding to help the people of Flint.” “Families in Flint are still living without access to safe, clean water, and they need assistance to recover from this man-made disaster,” said Senator Peters. “This $20 million grant provides critical resources to help the City of Flint repair roads as they work to replace the damaged water infrastructure, keeping Flint on the path to recovery.” Since 2009, TIGER has provided nearly $4.6 billion to 381 projects in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, including 134 projects to support rural and tribal communities. Overall, the Department has received more than 6,700 applications requesting more than $134 billion for transportation projects across the country. More information about the grant can be found at https://www.transportation.gov/tiger. ###
07.29.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Superior Township Fire Department to Buy New Vehicle Friday, July 29, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Superior Township Fire Department will receive $840,910 to purchase a new vehicle. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Superior Township put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “This new firetruck will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency.” “The brave men and women at the Superior Township Fire Department risk their lives to keep their community safe,” said Senator Peters. “I am pleased that these funds will help ensure they have the right tools to safely respond in emergency situations.” “The FEMA Assistance to Fire Fighter Grant will be used to purchase a new Ladder Truck,” said Victor Chevrette, Fire Chief of the Superior Township Fire Department. “This new Ladder Truck will also be used to respond as required under the Regional Mutual Aid Pac with the City of Ypsilanti, Charter Township of Ypsilanti and Ann Arbor Township. This much needed truck will provide emergency response and will help better protect the citizens and property. I would like to thank Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters and the taxpayers for supporting this much needed grant.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
07.28.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $2.2 Million for Three Michigan Airports Thursday, July 28, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that three Michigan airports will recieve over $2.2 million to rehabilitate runways, acquire land for development, improve structural integrity, and remove debris. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. The Cherry Capital Airport has been awarded a $1,531,800 grant. The Sawyer International Airport has been awarded a $175,135,000 grant. The MBS International Airport has been awarded a $500,916 grant. “This investment will make travelling to and from Michigan safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Ensuring that Michigan airports have modern infrastructure is important in securing a pleasant and efficient flight for passengers,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased that this funding will help upgrade the airport’s facilitates to promote safe air travel and increase tourism and commerce in the region.” The Runway Incursion Management program helps to identify, prioritize, and develop strategies to help airport sponsors mitigate risk. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/. ###
07.26.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses Across West Michigan Tuesday, July 26, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners and workers in Muskegon as part of her small business tour across the state. During her visit to West Michigan, Stabenow toured Eagle Alloy, The Cheese Lady, and Pigeon Hill Brewing. Stabenow has also met with small business owners in the Upper Peninsula and Northern Michigan during her tour. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, Michigan’s small businesses employed over half, or 1.8 million, of the state’s private workforce in 2012. “Small businesses are the backbone of Michigan’s economy and create the majority of new jobs, and this is as evident as ever in West Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “It’s inspiring to see first-hand the work ethic, creativity and resilience of Michigan’s small businesses. “It was a pleasure hosting Senator Stabenow to hear about her efforts to grow small businesses in Michigan, to thank her for her efforts on our behalf in the past and to communicate to her the never-ending regulatory challenges we continue to face as metalcasters.” said Jeff Cook, Vice President – Sales and Marketing, Eagle Alloy. “We look forward to working with her to continue removing roadblocks that put Michigan companies at a disadvantage on the global stage.” “It is so helpful to have Senator Stabenow fighting to help small businesses like ours,” said Kathleen F. Riegler, owner of The Cheese Lady. Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for small businesses, cutting taxes and increasing access to capital for entrepreneurs to help them expand and create jobs. As a senior member of the Finance committee, Senator Stabenow led the effort last year to extend important tax cuts for manufacturers, startups, and other small businesses. She introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs. As Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, she has strongly advocated for small business support through USDA’s Rural Development program. ###
07.18.2016	Stabenow Statement on President Obama Awarding Medal of Honor to Ypsilanti Vietnam Veteran Lieutenant Colonel Charles S. Kettles Monday, July 18, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement after President Obama awarded the Medal of Honor to Ypsilanti native and Vietnam veteran, then Major, Lieutenant Colonel Charles S. Kettles. Senator Stabenow introduced legislation with Senator Gary Peters and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell in 2015 to allow Lt. Col. Kettles to receive the Medal of Honor. “Today, close to 50 years after Lt. Col. Kettles acted heroically to save the lives of 44 of his fellow service members, he is finally receiving the recognition he deserves with our nation’s highest military honor,” said Senator Stabenow. “We are grateful for his sacrifices and heroism in the service of our country and I am so proud to see him receive the Medal of Honor.” Lt. Col. Kettles received the Medal of Honor for his actions while serving as a Flight Commander assigned to 176th Aviation Company (Airmobile) (Light), 14th Combat Aviation Battalion, Americal Division. Lt. Col. Kettles distinguished himself in combat operations near Duc Pho, Republic of Vietnam, on May 15, 1967. He is credited with saving the lives of 40 soldiers and four of his own crew members. Because the statute of limitations had passed, Congressional action was required to award Lt. Col. Kettles with the Medal of Honor. Senator Stabenow’s legislation waived the time limitation and allowed the President to make the final decision. The legislation was included in the end of year spending bill that was signed into law in December 2015.
07.14.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Hamtramck Fire Department Thursday, July 14, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that the Hamtramck Fire Department has been awarded assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program. The Detroit-area fire department will receive over $2.3 million and use the funding to support the hiring of firefighters and the recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Hamtramck Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." “Families in Hamtramck depend on the fire department to keep their community safe,” Senator Peters said. “Having a fully staffed and properly trained department is critical in ensuring the well-being of the Michiganders it serves.” Eligible fire departments in Michigan and across the country can apply for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants. These competitive grants provide money to guarantee departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters. More information about the grant can be found by clicking here. ###
07.14.2016	Senators Applaud Medicare Proposal to Implement HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Thursday, July 14, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Susan Collins (R-ME), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) announced that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid has proposed covering new care planning sessions under Medicare for Alzheimer’s patients and their families to provide an early assessment of the disease and possible treatment options. This proposal would effectively implement the Health Outcomes, Planning and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act, which requires Medicare to pay for a care planning session. The HOPE Act is coauthored by Senators Stabenow, Collins, Capito, and Markey and cosponsored by 54 other Senators. “This announcement is hugely important to those living with Alzheimer's disease and the loved ones who help care for them every day,” said Senator Stabenow. “My HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act called for care planning sessions for Alzheimer’s patients and their families and I’m pleased that CMS is now proposing to cover these vital services under Medicare. While there's more work to be done in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease, this is a strong sign that additional support and services are on the way.” "By allowing Medicare beneficiaries to receive a care planning session, this proposed rule would provide essential support for newly-diagnosed individuals and their families who are facing Alzheimer’s,” said Senator Collins. “I am pleased that CMS has recognized the importance of this benefit, which was one of the provisions in our HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act. As the Co-Chair of the Senate Alzheimer’s Task Force, I will continue to work to ensure that Alzheimer’s patients and their caregivers have the support they need.” "This proposal is a huge step toward fulfilling the mission of the HOPE Act. Early detection, a documented diagnosis and access to care planning services are key to helping ensure better outcomes for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and their caregivers,” said Senator Markey. “The HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act gives patients exactly that, hope - for a diagnosis that will help them get connected to critical resources and manage other chronic conditions they are likely to face. This proposal when finalized will mean patients, caregivers and families can learn what treatments are available and plan for the challenges that lie ahead." “The news that care planning sessions for Alzheimer’s patients and their families will be covered under Medicare is a victory for those across West Virginia and the nation who are battling this devastating disease,” said Senator Capito. “Caring for a loved one with Alzheimer’s can be very overwhelming, and this provision will provide patients and their caretakers with the information they need to make informed decisions about treatment options.” The HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to give a clear diagnosis to patients with Alzheimer’s disease, including information about treatment options and what medical and community services are available. ###
07.14.2016	Senator Stabenow Announces over $544,000 to Expand Quality Health Care to Rural Communities in Michigan Thursday, July 14, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, announced over $544,000 for Munson Medical Center and Central Michigan University – College of Medicine to expand telemedicine to rural communities by helping patients in Northern Michigan receive specialty care as well as training medical students and physicians. The funding will ensure patients get the care they need without having to drive long distances to seek medical attention. This grant comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Distance Learning and Telemedicine program. “Families in rural Michigan deserve the same access to high-quality healthcare as the rest of the State,” said Senator Stabenow. “With telehealth, patients are able to get important checkups and medical care even though the doctor is hundreds of miles away, thanks to state-of-the-art equipment and technology. Today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to specialists no matter what their zip code is.” Munson Medical Center will receive $407,676 to connect nineteen rural medical clinics to the Munson Medical Center and Grand Valley State University in order to provide specialty care to rural areas in Grand Traverse, Ottawa, Wexford, Charlevoix, Benzie, Otsego, Crawford, Kalkaska, Manistee, Mackinac, Cheboygan, Roscommon, Chippewa, and Leelanau Counties. Central Michigan University – College of Medicine will receive $137,010 to offer community based training to its medical students in order serve rural areas in Isabella, Saginaw, Clare, Houghton, Lake, Mackinac, Lapeer, Gratiot, Huron, Ostego, Tuscola, and Baraga Counties. In addition, the project will allow existing rural physicians to take continuing medical education courses from the College of Medicine to enhance healthcare in these areas. The Distance Learning and Telemedicine program helps rural communities use the unique capabilities of telecommunications to connect to each other and to the world, overcoming the effects of remoteness and low population density. For more information on other programs administered by RUS Telecommunications please visit: http://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/all-programs/telecom-programs. ###
07.12.2016	Senator Stabenow Applauds Medicare Proposal to Implement HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Tuesday, July 12, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid has proposed covering new care planning sessions under Medicare for Alzheimer’s patients and their families to provide an early assessment of the disease and possible treatment options. This proposal would effectively implement legislation introduced by Senator Stabenow, the Health Outcomes, Planning and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act, which requires Medicare to pay for a care planning session. The HOPE Act is coauthored by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), and Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) and cosponsored by 53 other Senators. “This announcement is hugely important to those living with Alzheimer's disease and the loved ones who help care for them every day,” said Senator Stabenow. “My HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act called for care planning sessions for Alzheimer’s patients and their families and I’m pleased that CMS is now proposing to cover these vital services under Medicare. While there's more work to be done in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease, this is a strong sign that additional support and services are on the way.” “On behalf of the more than 5 million Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease and their estimated 15 million caregivers we are encouraged by the decision by CMS to expand access to care and support services,” said Robert Egge, Alzheimer’s Association Chief Public Policy Officer. “Today’s step forward to improving care and support services for the millions of Americans impacted by this devastating and fatal disease would not have been possible without the leadership of Senator Stabenow and her support for the HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act.” Senator Stabenow’s HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to give a clear diagnosis to patients with Alzheimer’s disease, including information about treatment options and what medical and community services are available.
07.11.2016	Senator Stabenow Leads Successful Effort To Increase Affordable Care Act Tax Benefits For Michigan Families After calls from Stabenow, Treasury Department announces that the cost of children’s dental care must be included when determining a family’s ACA tax credit Monday, July 11, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement after the announcement that the Department of Treasury will increase tax credits available under the Affordable Care Act to better help families afford dental care for their children. The announcement follows a letter Senator Stabenow sent to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew in May calling for the Department to increase tax credits to cover dental care for children. “Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, I have been working to make sure that the tax credits families receive cover the important benefits we fought for, such as pediatric dental coverage,” said Senator Stabenow. “For young children, early dental care is especially important, and this decision will help make dental coverage more affordable for families in Michigan and across the country.” Currently, when calculating how much a family receives in tax credits through the Affordable Care Act, the tax credit does not account for the cost of a standalone pediatric dental plan. The decision will clarify that, starting in 2019, all tax credits must include the cost of pediatric dental coverage, along with all other essential health benefits, when determining the size of a family’s tax credit. As a senior Member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Stabenow was key to ensuring that pediatric dental care was included as one of the essential health benefits available to consumers purchasing insurance through an ACA marketplace.
07.07.2016	Bipartisan Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act Introduced in Senate and House Bicameral bill to help support Alzheimer’s patients and caregivers, reduce growing burden of treatment costs on federal health programs Thursday, July 07, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), along with U.S. Representatives Peter Roskam (R-Ill.) and Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.), today introduced new bipartisan, bicameral legislation to support Alzheimer’s patients and caregivers, and lessen the mounting costs associated with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias on federal health programs. More than 15 million Americans are serving as a family caregiver to a loved one living with Alzheimer’s or dementia, providing nearly 18 billion hours of unpaid care annually. These caregivers face a great deal of stress and other physical, financial and emotional challenges, which can lead to patients prematurely entering into long-term care. The Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act calls on the Department of Health and Human Services to test whether providing Alzheimer’s disease caregiver support services can help keep patients in the home setting for longer periods of time, resulting in lower Medicare and Medicaid program costs. “Alzheimer's is a heartbreaking disease that affects the entire family,” said Senator Stabenow. “For the half million caregivers and 185,000 Alzheimer's patients in Michigan, we are working to make sure that more people affected by Alzheimer's can stay in their homes and with their families longer. Today's bill is an important step towards reducing the burden of care and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate and the House to move this forward.” “Having recently shared in the caregiving of parents with Alzheimer’s, I understand the difficulties that caregivers face and the significant costs involved,” said Senator Capito. “As of 2015, there were 108,000 Alzheimer’s and dementia caregivers who provided 123 million total hours of unpaid care across West Virginia – that unpaid care is valued at more than $1.5 billion. With 37,000 West Virginians currently living with Alzheimer’s, and the Medicaid costs for treating Alzheimer’s in West Virginia totaling $368 million, we must pursue solutions like the Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act to help ease the burden on patients, caregivers and federal health programs.” “Nearly 5% of all Americans provide home care to a parent or relative‎ with Alzheimer's or dementia. They do so out of love, compassion, and kindness – and God bless them for their sacrifices. We, as lawmakers, must do more to support the physical, emotional, and financial challenges of home care-giving. I'm proud to introduce the Alzheimer's Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act as a first step to meet that responsibility,” said Congressman Roskam. “I am proud to introduce the Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act which will provide support services for caregivers of people living with Alzheimer’s and related dementia. As someone whose parents suffer from this devastating illness, I am acutely aware of the pain and hardship that Alzheimer’s disease inflicts on families all across this country. Studies have shown that providing support to caregivers improves their capability to take care for their loved ones and keeps more Alzheimer’s patients in their own home. This bill addresses a critical need in our health care system and will finally provide help to those who care for our loved ones,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act is modeled after the New York University Caregiver Intervention (NYUCI) and similar programs across the country and the world, including at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The NYUCI consists of individual and family counseling, participation in a caregiver support group, and ad-hoc counseling via telephone for caregivers and families managing the many challenges of caring for a loved one with Alzheimer’s disease. For more than 25 years, this program has been shown to delay long-term care admission by more than a year-and-a-half and to improve caregiver health and well-being. Given this promising body of evidence and the mounting cost and burdens on federal health programs from Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, it is essential to examine this intervention and determine its potential impact on Medicare and Medicaid. The Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act will provide us with these needed answers. ###
07.06.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce over $1.2 Million in Support for Michigan Firefighters and First Responders Wednesday, July 06, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced over $1.2 million for Michigan firefighters and first responders to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. The Waterford Regional Fire Department will receive an award for $86,164. The Farmington Public Safety Department will receive an award for $13,143. The Port Huron Department of Public Safety-Fire Division will receive an award for $21,252. The North Oakland County Fire Authority will receive an award for $202,791. The Ypsilanti City Fire Department will receive an award for $56,000. The West Bloomfield Township Fire Department will receive an award for $186,364. The South Haven Area Emergency Services Authority will receive an award for $398,182. The Cannon Township Fire Department will receive an award for $32,854. The Posen Area Fire and Rescue will receive an award for $66,071. The Bruce Township Fire Department will receive an award for $88,096. The Arcadia Township Fire Department will receive an award for $72,000. “Our firefighters in Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “Michigan’s firefighters serve their communities each day with courage, integrity, and pride,” said Senator Peters. “I am very pleased that this grant will help ensure these brave men and women have the tools and training they need to protect themselves as they respond to emergencies.” "On behalf of the Cannon Township Fire Department, I would like to extend our appreciation to FEMA and U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, for approving a grant to be used in the purchase of 10,200 feet of large and small diameter hose," said Jim Morris, Cannon Township Fire Chief. "The grant will allow us to continue to provide safe and effective response to the residents of Cannon Township and the surrounding communities." The grant enables Cannon Township to replace 50-60% of a fire hose which has been worn out and is not in compliance with the current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards. Hoses are often an overlooked piece of equipment, but critical component of every fire ground. Only 8% of Cannon Township falls within a hydrant district. This grant will help in providing greater reach in the local hydrant district, but also the non-hydrant districts where often times firefighters experience long hose lays over 1,000 feet to get water to the scene of a structure fire. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
07.06.2016	Senator Stabenow Participated in Clawson, Oak Park Independence Day Parades Wednesday, July 06, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow celebrated the Fourth of July with Michigan families. She participated in the Independence Day parades in Clawson and Oak Park. The theme of the Clawson parade was “Proud Past, Bright Future.”
07.06.2016	Senator Stabenow Takes Inaugural American Airlines Direct Flight from Lansing to Washington D.C. The inaugural flight received a water cannon salute as it was taxiing for departure Wednesday, July 06, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today took part in the inaugural direct flight service on American Airlines flying from Lansing’s Capital Region International Airport (LAN) to Washington, D.C.’s Reagan National Airport (DCA). In March, the U.S. Department of Transportation granted American Airlines an exemption to provide direct service from Lansing to Washington, D.C., after Sun County Airlines suspended their non-stop service last October. “Having a direct flight from Michigan’s capital to our nation’s capital is a major boost to Mid-Michigan’s economy,” she Senator Stabenow. “Continuing this important nonstop service benefits Michigan State University and the FRIB, local businesses and Port Lansing’s international trade facilities.” U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow was key in securing this flight service in 2011 and ensuring Lansing kept a direct route to Washington, D.C., which provides a major economic boost to Mid-Michigan and the entire state. Continuing this nonstop service benefits Michigan State University and FRIB, local businesses, and Port Lansing’s international trade facilities.
06.29.2016	Senators Peters, Stabenow Announce over $2.1 Million for Michigan Airports Wednesday, June 29, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that three Michigan airports have been awarded over $2.1 million in funding from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for runway rehabilitation, land development and snow removal equipment. The Pellston Regional Airport has been awarded a $503,500 grant. The Houghton County Memorial Airport has been awarded an $820,000 grant. The Muskegon County Airport has been awarded an $802,594 grant. “This investment will make travelling to and from Michigan airports safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Airports are a critical part of Michigan’s infrastructure,” said Senator Peters. “This grant will help Michigan airports conduct the maintenance and upkeep necessary to operate at the highest standard and ensure a pleasant flight for travelers.” ###
06.17.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $300,000 for Kalamazoo Battle Creek International Airport Friday, June 17, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Kalamazoo County will receive $300,000 to study runway improvements at Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration as a part of the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program. “This investment will make travelling to and from Southwest Michigan safer and more efficient,” said Senator Stabenow. “Safe and reliable air travel will also help encourage businesses to invest in the region and create jobs.” “Thousands of travelers rely on Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport for safe, reliable travel in and out of Southwest Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “I applaud this funding, which will help improve airport operations and boost economic development in the region.” The Runway Incursion Management program helps to identify, prioritize, and develop strategies to help airport sponsors mitigate risk. The FAA has developed an updated inventory of airport locations where runway incursions have occurred and is now working with airports on mitigation strategies. More information about the Runway Incursion Mitigation Program can be found at https://www.faa.gov/airports/special_programs/rim/.
06.16.2016	Senate Passes Stabenow, Peters Resolution Honoring Life and Legacy of Gordon “Gordie” Howe Thursday, June 16, 2016 The U.S. Senate today passed a resolution, introduced by U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, paying tribute to the life of Detroit Red Wings legend Gordon “Gordie” Howe, affectionately referred to as “Mr. Hockey.” “Gordie Howe’s excellence on the ice inspired players and fans everywhere and was equally matched by his contribution to the sport, our state, and the City of Detroit off the ice,” said Stabenow. “This resolution honors the life and legacy of one of our all-time greats who will forever be known as Mr. Hockey.” “Gordie Howe was an icon who changed the face of hockey and made Detroit a force to be reckoned with in the NHL,” said Senator Peters. “I join all Michiganders in mourning the loss of Gordie Howe and remembering his contributions to Michigan. While he may no longer be with us, his spirit, grit and love for the game will be forever enshrined as the core of the Detroit Red Wings.” Text of the Resolution follows: Whereas Gordon Howe (in this preamble referred to as “Gordie Howe”) was born in Floral, Saskatchewan, Canada, on March 31, 1928, and was invited to his first tryout with a professional hockey team at 15 years of age; Whereas Gordie Howe entered the National Hockey League (in this preamble referred to as the “NHL”) in 1946 at 18 years of age when he joined the Detroit Red Wings and scored a goal in his very first game; Whereas Gordie Howe played right wing on the “Production Line”, the most productive offensive scoring unit in the NHL from the late 1940s through the mid-1950s; Whereas Gordie Howe played 25 seasons with the Detroit Red Wings and led the team to 4 Stanley Cup championships; Whereas, in 1972, Gordie Howe was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame; Whereas, in 1973, Gordie Howe joined the Houston Aeros of the World Hockey Association (in this preamble referred to as the “WHA”) to fulfill a dream of playing hockey on the same professional team as his sons; Whereas Gordie Howe proceeded to win the Most Valuable Player award of the WHA and lead the Houston Aeros to the WHA championship; Whereas Gordie Howe retired from professional hockey in 1980, having scored 1,850 career points in the NHL, which are the third most of all time; Whereas Gordie Howe appeared in 23 NHL All-Star games, led the NHL in scoring 6 times, and won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the most valuable player in the league 6 times; Whereas, in 1997, at the age of 69, Gordie Howe came out of retirement to join the Detroit Vipers of the International Hockey League and became the first player ever to play professional hockey in 6 different decades; Whereas the “Gordie Howe hat trick”, a goal, an assist, and a fight in the same game, is named after Gordie Howe, though he had only 2 such games in his career; Whereas Gordie Howe is considered one of the greatest hockey players of all time and to millions of fans worldwide will always be known as “Mr. Hockey”; Whereas Gordie Howe was predeceased by his wife of 56 years, Colleen Howe, who died in 2009 and was affectionately known as “Mrs. Hockey”; Whereas Gordie Howe is so beloved throughout the United States and Canada that a new international bridge connecting Detroit and Windsor has been named in his honor; Whereas, on June 10, 2016, Gordie Howe died at 88 years of age, after a long career enjoyed by millions; and Whereas Gordie Howe is survived by his 4 children, many grandchildren and great-grandchildren, a sister, and by hockey fans across the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) honors the life and legacy of Gordon “Gordie” Howe for his significant contributions to the sport of hockey and the city of Detroit; (2) expresses its deepest sympathies and condolences to the family of Gordie Howe on his passing; and (3) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to the family of Gordie Howe.
06.16.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Almost $742,000 in Support for Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, June 16, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced almost $742,000 in support for fire departments in Michigan to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “First responders in Michigan put their lives on the line every day to protect their community,” said Senator Peters. “It is imperative that they have the tools and resources they need to stay safe on the job.” The Shiawassee Township Fire Department will receive an award for $81,553. The Township of Kalamazoo Fire Department will receive an award for $68,182. The Berrien Springs/Oronoko Fire Department will receive an award for $31,490. The Sterling Heights Fire Department will receive an award for $176,346. The Redford Township Fire Department will receive an award for $110,182. The Highland Park Fire Department will receive an award for $93,334. The Dryden Township Fire Department will receive an award for $47,562. The Grand Ledge Area Fire Department will receive an award for $133,173. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
06.12.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Former Ohio Senator George Voinovich Sunday, June 12, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding the passing of former Senator and Governor George Voinovich (R-OH): “I am deeply saddened by the passing of my former Senate colleague George Voinovich. For years, we worked across the aisle to protect our Great Lakes, support American manufacturing jobs, and expand community mental health services for families. My thoughts and prayers go out to George’s family and to the people whose lives he touched throughout his years of public service.” ###
06.07.2016	Senators Announce Inclusion of Bipartisan HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act in Labor-HHS Appropriations Bill Senator Debbie Stabenow was joined by Senator Shelley Moore Capito and Senator Ed Markey in announcing the inclusion of the HOPE Act Tuesday, June 07, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that her bipartisan HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act was passed out of committee as part of the Labor-Health and Human Services appropriations bill. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act would require Medicare to pay for a care planning session to provide Alzheimer’s patients and their families an early assessment, information about the disease and possible treatment options. Senator Stabenow was joined in announcing the bill’s passage by HOPE Act co-sponsors Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) and Ed Markey (D-MA). “Today’s vote is a positive step forward for the HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act and for those families affected by this heartbreaking disease,” said Senator Stabenow. “This bill will encourage doctors to detect Alzheimer’s earlier and ensure patients and families are better equipped to cope with the disease. I thank the members of the Senate Appropriations Committee for including this important legislation, and will continue to work for passage of this bill, which is so important to families affected by this terrible disease.” "Having recently experienced the challenges of caring for parents with Alzheimer’s, I understand the difficulties that caregivers and family members face,” said Senator Capito. We need to do more to improve the diagnosis of this disease and educate Americans about treatment options. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am thrilled that The HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act was included in the Labor-HHS bill that passed out of the subcommittee with bipartisan support today.” "Early detection, a documented diagnosis and access to care planning services are key to helping ensure better outcomes for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and their caregivers, said Senator Markey. “The HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act gives patients exactly that, hope - for a diagnosis that will help them get connected to critical resources and manage other chronic conditions they are likely to face. It means patients, caregivers and families can learn what treatments are available and plan for the challenges that lie ahead. I thank Senators Stabenow, Collins and Capito for their partnership on this legislation and their continued efforts to help find a cure to this devastating disease." The bill creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to give a clear diagnosis to patients with Alzheimer’s disease, including information about treatment options and what medical and community services are available.
06.07.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce $4.8 Million for Stony Island Habitat Restoration Tuesday, June 07, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is awarding $4,828,635 to restore habitats on islands in the lower part of the Detroit River, part of the Friends of the Detroit River Stony Island Habitat Restoration Project. In addition to this funding, Senators Stabenow and Peters announced $2.3 million in funding this past February to restore fish and wildlife habitats in the Stony Island upper bay. Senator Stabenow is Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force and Senator Peters is a member. “We know that what’s good for our lakes and waterways is great for our Michigan economy,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This investment will strengthen habitats around Stony Island so that fish and wildlife can flourish once again, making the Detroit River a destination for anglers and all who enjoy Michigan’s natural beauty.” “I applaud this investment in habitat restoration for the Detroit River, which will result in major positive recreational and economic impacts for Michiganders,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “Commitment to the preservation of our waterways will restore the health and beauty of this critical ecosystem, while creating jobs and promoting our state’s growing tourism industry.” The award will go to Friends of the Detroit River to help complete more acreage of habitat restoration than any previous restoration effort for the Detroit River Area of Concern (AOC). This area of the Detroit River serves as one of the most important spawning areas for western Lake Erie. In February, Stabenow and Peters introduced the Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization Act, bipartisan legislation that authorizes funding for scientific research used to combat invasive species, prevent habitat loss, and manage the region’s fisheries. The Great Lakes fishery is worth $7 billion annually. ###
06.07.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce $3.7 Million to Continue Cleanup of Manistique River Tuesday, June 07, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is awarding the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality $3,795,056 to help continue the cleanup of contaminated sediment from industrial waste in the Manistique River. This support will help MDEQ develop and implement measures to remediate poly-chlorinated biphenyls (PCB) contamination in the watershed. "Our lakes and waterways are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment will help clean up pollution and conserve beautiful natural resources in the Manistique watershed for generations to come." "Michigan’s waterways are one of our state’s most precious resources,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “I am pleased that these funds will build on ongoing efforts to clean the Manistique River watershed, which will boost the Upper Peninsula’s economy and preserve these resources for future generations.” The Manistique River has been listed as an Area of Concern since 1987 due to a long history of industrialization and repeated contamination from PCBs, oils and combined sewer overflows. In addition, debris and sawdust from more than a century of logging and milling in the region have degraded the Manistique River watershed. As a result, over the years there have been restrictions on dredging and fish and wildlife consumption, as well as beach closings. When completed, the project is expected to significantly reduce the PCB levels in the Manistique River channel and harbor. With successful remediation, dredging restrictions will be removed and fish PCB concentrations will return to safe levels. Meeting these objectives will lead to the removal of the remaining Beneficial Use Impairments (BUIs) from the harbor and channel that were identified in 1987 for the Manistique River Area of Concern. ###
06.07.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Vote to Overhaul Toxic Substances Control Act Tuesday, June 07, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following the Senate’s passage of an overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act, the first update to the law since it was passed in 40 years: “Today’s overhaul of this outdated law will protect families and provide certainty to businesses in Michigan and across the country. As one of the earliest supporters of efforts to reform the Toxic Substances Control Act, I have been working hard to get this vital update across the finish line. Today’s vote is an important step forward that will help keep our families safe.”
06.01.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Michigan Fire Departments Wednesday, June 01, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced almost $2.3 million for Michigan Fire Departments to purchase equipment and a new vehicle. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “First responders play a central role in keeping our communities safe when disaster strikes,” said Senator Peters. “Today’s announcement will help ensure that fire departments in Michigan have the resources needed to respond effectively to emergencies.” The Van Buren Township Fire Department will receive $1.4 million on behalf of 11 Washtenaw and Wayne County fire departments. The Roseville Fire Department will receive an award for $477,781. The Hamtramck Fire Department will receive an award for $5,410. The Bay City Fire Department will receive an award for $379,228. The Saginaw Fire Department will receive an award for $58,182. The Flushing Fire Department will receive an award for $21,977. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
06.01.2016	Senator Stabenow Tours Small Businesses Across Upper Peninsula Stabenow Continues Focus on Business at Mackinac Policy Conference Wednesday, June 01, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with business owners at local small businesses during a two-day trip across the Upper Peninsula. During the visits, Stabenow heard from manufacturers, a jewelry maker, retailers and other entrepreneurs. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, Michigan’s small businesses employed over half, or 1.8 million, of the state’s private workforce in 2012. “Small businesses are the backbone of Michigan’s economy and create the majority of new jobs, and nowhere is this more evident than in the UP,” said Senator Stabenow. “I am always inspired when I can see the Yooper work ethic, creativity and resilience first hand.” Senator Stabenow toured Delta Manufacturing in Escanaba; Cretens Furniture in Perkins; Beth Millner Jewelry, The Flying Moose, Revisions Design Studio and Donckers in Marquette; and Java Joe’s Café and The Voyageur Trading Post in St Ignace. “We are pleased to have Senator Stabenow visit Marquette and see our vibrant downtown businesses, including our shop,” said Beth Millner, the owner of Beth Millner Jewelry. “Senator Stabenow is touring four businesses that provide locally made products and services and we think it is great to show support for the Marquette economy and Michigan as a whole.” “It was great to speak with Senator Stabenow as she discussed work she is doing to keep the forestry industry and the Upper Peninsula economy thriving,” said Jennifer Cretens, owner of Cretens Furniture. “We hope to have her back soon.” “We care so deeply about our customers,” said Jeremy Poch, owner of The Flying Moose. It was so exciting to have the Senator come our store and speak with some of our wonderful patrons.” “I am glad to welcome Senator Stabenow to the Voyageur Trading Post; we value her support of small businesses,” said Alan Turf, owner and operator of the Voyageur Trading Post. “We have come to realize that there is so much creativity in the state of Michigan that we appreciate the Senator's recognition of the many talented artists whose work we proudly display in the gallery.” Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for small businesses, cutting taxes and increasing access to capital for entrepreneurs to help them expand and create jobs. As a senior member of the Finance committee, Senator Stabenow led the effort last year to extend important tax cuts for manufacturers, startups, and other small businesses. She introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs. As Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, she has strongly advocated for small business support through USDA’s Rural Development program. She recently introduced the Timber Innovation Act that helps accelerate research and development to drive a new market for forest products. ###
05.26.2016	Senators Introduce Student Tax Relief Act The legislation would protect defrauded students from being taxed on their forgiven loans Thursday, May 26, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today was joined by Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jack Reed (D-RI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Chris Coons (D-DE), Gary Peters (D-MI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) in introducing the Student Tax Relief Act, a bill that would protect defrauded student borrowers from being taxed on their forgiven loans. This legislation follows actions by the Department of Education to protect defrauded students at 100 Corinthian Colleges across the country and ensures that borrowers at any schools whose loans were forgiven receive the same tax relief. “When students take out loans to attend college, they should get a fair deal and a fair shot,” said Senator Stabenow. “No student should be the victim of false advertising from a college that promises skills or job placement. And the last thing they deserve is to be hit with an enormous tax burden on their forgiven loans.” “Students take on college loans with the assurance that they’re worth the investment in their future,” said Senator Shaheen. “The government should not burden those who have fallen victim to false advertising and scams by colleges who cash in on false promises. Students whose loans have been forgiven deserve the tax on that debt relief to be forgiven too.” “These defrauded students deserve real relief,” said Senator Reed. “The federal government shouldn’t collect taxes on loans that were forgiven because these individuals were willfully misled and preyed upon.” "Higher education should be a path to prosperity, not a path into suffocating debt,” said Senator Baldwin. “Students who have been defrauded by unscrupulous colleges and universities that did not provide the education promised to them should not be further burdened with egregious taxes on loans that have already been forgiven.” “Figuring out which college to go to and how to pay for it is hard enough without being subjected to false advertising from higher ed institutions,” said Senator Coons. “Forgiving the loans of students who are victims of fraudulent institutions is the right thing to do, but requiring them to pay a hefty tax on that forgiven loan still leaves many of these students struggling to make ends meet and afford continuing their education. We should be doing everything we can to help students afford the college that fits their needs, not making it harder.” “As the cost of college becomes more and more burdensome, we must do what we can to protect hardworking students seeking higher education,” said Senator Peters. “The Student Tax Relief Act will ensure that defrauded students are not hit with onerous taxes that prevent them from achieving financial security and continued success outside the classroom.” “California is home to around 10,000 former students of Corinthian Colleges, which has been found guilty of defrauding students across the country,” said Senator Feinstein. “Students who are defrauded by their college or university deserve a chance to start over and build a future for themselves. It will be much easier for them to do so if they don’t face a significant tax burden from their forgiven loans.” The Senators joined their colleagues in sending a letter to Department of Education Secretary John King in April and President Obama in March calling on the Administration to provide fair debt relief to victims of unlawful or deceptive practices in higher education through a tough borrower defense rule. More information on the decision by the Department of Education to discharge loans of defrauded students may be found here and the full list of the schools eligible for a loan discharge may be found here. ###
05.25.2016	Stabenow, Peters Urge Action on Delayed VA Medical Leases Leases for Ann Arbor & Pontiac VA Clinics Must Be Authorized to Treat Veterans Seeking Health Services Wednesday, May 25, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters joined 13 of their colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter urging the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to authorize leases for 18 major medical facilities across 12 states, including a new expanded outpatient facility in Ann Arbor, MI, that have been awaiting congressional authorization for over a year. An additional six leases for facilities, including a new outpatient clinic in Pontiac, MI, must be authorized this year. The two new Michigan facilities will expand services and reduce congestion and wait times for Michigan veterans seeking VA health care. “These lease authorizations are needed to enable the VA to deliver care and services to veterans across the United States,” the Senators wrote in the letter. “As such, we ask that you act swiftly to authorize these pending leases until a more permanent solution to the issue can be found. Inaction on this issue hampers the ability of veterans in our states to access timely and quality care from the VA.” The proposed Ann Arbor lease will create a new 145,000 square-foot outpatient clinic to provide clinical services in support of the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. The new, larger Ann Arbor facility will help alleviate wait times and overburdened services by expanding the current primary care, mental health, and specialty care services and offer new services including women’s health services. The proposed Pontiac project will lease a new 37,619 square-foot outpatient clinic to replace and expand the current 9,900 square-foot Pontiac Community Based Outpatient Clinic, which is too small to meet the growing number of veterans seeking care at the facility. There are more than 698,000 veterans currently living in Michigan, and approximately 224,750 Michigan veterans are currently enrolled in the VA health care system. Under current law, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) must receive specific legislative authorization to lease medical facilities with average annual rental payments in excess of $1 million. But since 2012, Congress has not, through a regular process, authorized any VA major medical facility leases, hampering the ability of the VA to provide much-needed health care and services to veterans around the country. A technical change in the way the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the cost of these leases has stymied efforts to authorize any VA major medical facility leases. In 2012, CBO changed the VA lease classifications from operating leases to capital leases primarily because the clinics are build-to-suit for VA use alone. In 2012, CBO began scoring all VA clinics as capital leases to reflect the total cost of the lease - which can cover a 20 year period for some facilities - rather than the cost of the annual lease payments as done with operating leases. As a result, the estimated cost of legislation authorizing these leases increased significantly, even though actual spending would not increase and the leases are ultimately subject to annual appropriations. The current 18 outstanding leases from fiscal years 2015 and 2016 have been estimated at an overall cost of $904 million. The letter was also signed by Sens. Mark Warner (D-VA), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Burr (R-NC), Susan Collins (R-ME), Steve Daines (R-MT), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Jon Tester (D-MT), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). A copy of the letter is copied below and available here. Chairman Isakson and Ranking Member Blumenthal: We urge you to act to authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) major medical facility leases currently pending before Congress, and for which funding has been included in the Senate Committee-passed fiscal year 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. These lease authorizations are needed to enable the VA to deliver care and services to veterans across the United States. Together, the 18 VA facilities with authorizations pending before Congress deliver care to our veterans. Authorization of these leases has been hampered by a scorekeeping issue. Under current law, the VA must receive specific legislative authorization to lease medical facilities with average annual rental payments in excess of $1 million. In 2012, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) began scoring the total obligations for the life of a VA major medical lease at the time of authorization, rather than annually. As such, legislation authorizing VA major medical leases receives much larger direct spending scores even though actual spending would not increase and the leases are subject to appropriations. This scoring change has stymied efforts to authorize any VA major medical facility leases. Currently, 18 leases in 12 states from fiscal years 2015 and 2016 have been pending authorization in Congress for more than one year: Ann Arbor, MI - Outpatient Clinic Birmingham, AL - Outpatient Mental Health Clinic Birmingham, AL - Outpatient Specialty Clinic Boston, MA - Research Charleston, SC - Research Daytona Beach, FL - Outpatient Clinic Denver, CO - Chief Business Office Purchased Care Gainesville, FL - Outpatient Clinic Hampton Roads, VA - Outpatient Clinic Mission Bay, CA - Research Missoula, MT - Outpatient Clinic Northern Colorado, CO - Outpatient Clinic Ocala, FL - Outpatient Clinic Oxnard, CA - Outpatient Clinic Pike County, GA - Outpatient Clinic Portland, ME - Outpatient Clinic Raleigh, NC - Outpatient Clinic Santa Rosa, CA - Outpatient Clinic Additionally, there are major medical facility leases in New York, Texas, and Indiana that require authorization. As such, we ask that you act swiftly to authorize these pending leases until a more permanent solution to the scorekeeping issue can be found. Inaction on this issue hampers the ability of veterans in our states to access timely and quality care from the VA. We thank you for your continued dedication to our nation’s veterans and their families, and look forward to working with you on this critical issue. ###
05.19.2016	Stabenow, Peters Urge Quick Completion of Army Corps Study to Help Upgrade Soo Locks Thursday, May 19, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI) and Gary Peters (MI) sent a letter urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to swiftly complete their Economic Reevaluation Report in order to begin the process of upgrading the Soo Locks. At the urging of Stabenow and Peters, the Obama Administration last year approved $1.35 million for Army Corps of Engineer’s request to review upgrades for the Soo Locks and help replace the Davis and Sabin Locks with a lock of similar size to the Poe Lock. “The recent meetings we have both held at the Locks with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers highlighted the profound harm that an outage would have on the economy and security of Michigan, the Great Lakes region, and the entire nation,” wrote the Senators. “We urge you to complete the Economic Reevaluation Report as quickly as possible in order to begin the process of building a Poe-sized replacement lock. In producing this study, we also strongly encourage you to take into account the findings of the Homeland Security Department’s report.” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) found that an unexpected outage at the Soo Locks would cause an almost complete shutdown of Great Lakes steel production. According to the study, a six-month shutdown of the Poe Lock could put the U.S. back in a recession, with an estimated $1.1 trillion loss in economic output and 11 million jobs lost across the country - particularly in the auto and mining industries. During such a shutdown, unemployment in Michigan could rise to 20%. Even a short-term unscheduled shutdown of the Poe Lock during shipping season could result in 75% of the nation’s steel output being halted within two to six weeks. The Soo Locks serve as a gateway to transport nearly 80 million tons of goods and raw materials that supply Michigan’s agricultural, mining, and manufacturing industries. Currently, nearly 70% of cargo vessels are forced to use the Poe Lock because they are too large to pass through the one other lock that is still operational. The transportation of iron ore to integrated steel manufacturing facilities in the Great Lakes region is almost completely dependent on a functioning Poe Lock, which was last rebuilt in 1968. Stabenow most recently toured the Soo Locks last year where she met with the Army Corps of Engineers, Coast Guard, and Customs and Border Protection to discuss the need to build a replacement lock and Great Lakes safety and security. Peters visited the Soo Locks earlier this month, which included a tour of the control room, the MacArthur and Poe Locks, and a briefing from the Army Corps of Engineers on the current state of operations. Click here for the full letter or see below: May 19, 2016 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army Department of the Army, Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0108 Dear Assistant Secretary Jo-Ellen Darcy, We write to reaffirm the critical importance of ensuring the reliability and expanding the capacity of the Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. The recent meetings we have both held at the Locks with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers highlighted the profound harm that an outage would have on the economy and security of Michigan, the Great Lakes region, and the entire nation. We appreciate your working with us to secure funding for the cost-benefit study needed for a replacement lock, and we ask that every effort be made to compete this analysis as quickly as possible. The Soo Locks serve as a gateway to transport nearly 80 million tons of goods and raw materials that supply Michigan’s agricultural, mining, and manufacturing industries. Currently, nearly 70% of cargo vessels are forced to use the Poe Lock because they are too large to pass through the one other lock that is still operational. The transportation of iron ore to integrated steel manufacturing facilities in the Great Lakes region is almost completely dependent on a functioning Poe Lock, which was last rebuilt in 1968. A recent study by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) found that a disruption of the Soo Locks would likely cause a near complete shutdown of Great Lakes steel production. The disruption of shipping from even a short-term closure of the Poe Lock would devastate the automobile, mining, appliance, and other manufacturing industries in the Great Lakes region and across North America. DHS estimates that a six-month shutdown of the Poe Lock would result in a loss of $1.1 trillion in economic output and nearly 11 million jobs. As you know, the Office of Management and Budget has approved $1.35 million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to reevaluate the costs and benefits of replacing the Davis and Sabin Locks with a Poe-sized lock capable of handling the largest commercial ships on the Great Lakes. We urge you to complete the Economic Reevaluation Report as quickly as possible in order to begin the process of building a Poe-sized replacement lock. In producing this study, we also strongly encourage you to take into account the findings of the Homeland Security Department’s report. Thank you for your consideration and please keep us informed as the Army Corps proceeds with this important study. ###
05.17.2016	Stabenow, Peters Call for Stricter Standards, Stronger Oversight of Great Lakes Pipelines Tuesday, May 17, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI), Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters (MI), a member of the Great Lakes Task Force, sent a letter to Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx urging DOT to hold pipelines that cross the Great Lakes to the same standards as other offshore pipelines given the potential for significant economic and ecological harm from an oil spill in the Great Lakes. Pipelines crossing the Great Lakes, including Enbridge’s Line 5 under the Straits of Mackinac, are currently regulated as onshore pipelines, which are held to less stringent regulatory standards than offshore pipelines. Stabenow and Peters also called on DOT to establish new response requirements that take into account the unique nature of the Great Lakes. “It is our understanding that despite the fact that pipelines in the Great Lakes have some segments that meet the definition of an onshore transportation facility and others that meet the offshore definition under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, federal regulations treat these pipelines as onshore facilities,” wrote the Senators. “Given the unique characteristics of Great Lakes waters, we are concerned that the response plan requirements for owners and operators of Great Lakes pipelines are not adequate to prevent, respond to, and pay for a variety of oil spill scenarios.” “As the source of drinking water for 40 million people, and an economic engine that supports 1.5 million jobs in multi-billion dollar shipping, fishing and tourism industries, it is imperative that we have stringent federal regulations that ensure the safety and integrity of the Great Lakes’ oil pipeline network,” continued the Senators. Regulating Great Lakes pipelines as onshore facilities raises concerns that current requirements are not adequate to prevent, respond to, or pay for an oil spill. For example, companies operating onshore facilities are only liable for cleanup costs up to $634 million and are not federally required to provide evidence of financial assurance, whereas companies operating offshore facilities in ocean waters are required to cover all cleanup costs and must prove they can pay for a worst-case spill. Last year, Stabenow and Peters introduced legislation to protect the Great Lakes from an oil spill. Provisions from their bill to strengthen pipeline oversight and improve response plans for ice-covered waters were included in the SAFE PIPES Act that unanimously passed the Senate in March. Last year, PHMSA Administrator Marie Therese Dominguez accepted an invitation from Stabenow and Peters to attend a Line 5 safety drill and see firsthand spill whether or not response efforts in the Straits of Mackinac are adequate. Participants in the exercise included the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Michigan State Police, local law enforcement, and Native American tribes. Click here for the full letter or see below: The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx, We write to urge the Department of Transportation (DOT) to take action to better protect the Great Lakes from oil spills from pipelines. In particular, we ask the Department to establish regulatory requirements specific to inland offshore pipeline facilities that cross the Great Lakes. This action is warranted given the unique attributes of the Great Lakes and the potential for significant economic and ecological harm that would result from an oil spill. We are deeply concerned about the risk of an oil spill from pipelines crossing the Great Lakes and its tributaries, particularly those crossing the Straits of Mackinac and the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers. For example, the Enbridge “Line 5” pipeline that carries up to 540,000 barrels per day of crude oil traverses nearly five miles under the Straits of Mackinac, which intersects Lake Huron and Lake Michigan. A recent University of Michigan study identified over 700 miles of coastline that could be harmed if an oil pipeline in the Straits leaked or ruptured. The potential for damages are only amplified because the Coast Guard acknowledges it does not have the capacity to sufficiently respond to a spill when wintertime ice blankets the Straits. It is our understanding that despite the fact that pipelines in the Great Lakes have some segments that meet the definition of an onshore transportation facility and others that meet the offshore definition under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, federal regulations treat these pipelines as onshore facilities. This determination is of significant consequence. For example, under the Oil Pollution Act, the liability for cleanup costs for owners or operators of onshore facilities are capped at $634 million, whereas companies operating pipelines classified as offshore facilities are required to demonstrate they have sufficient resources to pay for all cleanup costs. This causes us concern when the total clean-up cost of the Enbridge oil pipeline spill near Marshall, Michigan into the Kalamazoo River is at least $1.2 billion. In addition, spill response plans for offshore facilities must contain far more details about the response to worst case discharge scenarios. Given the unique characteristics of Great Lakes waters, we are concerned that the response plan requirements for owners and operators of Great Lakes pipelines are not adequate to prevent, respond to, and pay for a variety of oil spill scenarios. As the source of drinking water for 40 million people, and an economic engine that supports 1.5 million jobs in multi-billion dollar shipping, fishing and tourism industries, it is imperative that we have stringent federal regulations that ensure the safety and integrity of the Great Lakes’ oil pipeline network. Classifying pipeline segments that run through the Great Lakes as offshore transportation facilities would help achieve this objective. In addition, DOT should review current oil spill response plans for adequacy under the Oil Pollution Act and establish new response requirements to better protect our critical water resources. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to your timely response. ###
05.05.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, May 05, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Southgate Fire Department, the Wayne Fire Department, and the Grosse Pointe Woods Department of Public Safety will be awarded assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The funding will be used to purchase equipment and improve safety operations. “Our firefighters in Southeast Michigan put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “It is critical that first responders and firefighters have the tools and resources needed to keep their communities safe,” said Senator Peters. “These funds will help ensure first responders across Southeast Michigan are equipped to respond when disaster strikes.” The Southgate Fire Department will receive $38,182, the Wayne Fire Department will receive $29,715, and the Grosse Pointe Woods Department of Public Safety will receive $122,596 for safety and operations. Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
05.04.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Great Lakes Investment to Combat Invasive Species in Northern Michigan Grand Traverse Conservation District, Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council, Grand Traverse Bay Watershed Among Eight Awardees Receiving Over $4.2 Million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Funding to Combat Invasive Species in Great Lakes Wednesday, May 04, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded an announcement from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that Michigan will receive $4.2 million in grants from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to invest in ongoing efforts to combat invasive species and protect Michigan’s Great Lakes, including over $1.4 million for Northern Michigan. “The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This funding will help control invasive species and restore hundreds of acres of shoreline and wetlands in Traverse City and across Northern Michigan. Today’s announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways.” “The Great Lakes are part of our way of life in Michigan, driving economic growth and providing safe drinking water for over 40 million people,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is essential to ensuring the Great Lakes are protected for generations to come. I applaud today’s announcement, which will support efforts in Traverse City and across Northern Michigan to prevent the spread of harmful invasive species and preserve the Great Lakes as a precious resource.” The Grand Traverse Conservation District will receive $301,340 to work with local nursery and garden suppliers to promote the use of native species within communities on the shores of Lake Michigan. The Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council will receive $641,077 to utilize control products to combat the threat of invasive zebra and quagga mussels. The Grand Traverse Bay Watershed will receive $499,370 to implement green infrastructure practices, such as pervious pavement and rain gardens, to reduce the discharge of stormwater runoff into Grand Traverse Bay. This funding comes through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. They are both cosponsors of the Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act, legislation that would authorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, the Great Lakes Legacy program that deals with contaminated sediments and the Great Lakes National Program Office within the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In February, the Senators introduced the Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization, bipartisan legislation to provide better federal funding opportunities to update technologies and create new research projects to benefit the Great Lakes, and close the research gap between the Great Lakes Science Center and other fishery research centers around the country. ###
05.04.2016	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Great Lakes Investment to Combat Invasive Species in Great Lakes Great Lakes Commission Among Eight MI Awardees Receiving Over $4.2 Million to Combat Invasive Species in Great Lakes Wednesday, May 04, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded an announcement from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that Michigan will receive $4.2 million in grants from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to invest in ongoing efforts to combat invasive species and protect Michigan’s Great Lakes. The Great Lakes Commission will receive $340,000 to enhance software detecting the availability of invasive species in online commerce and coordinate with law enforcement and outreach coordinators to improve the software’s accuracy. This funding comes through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is administered by the EPA. “The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This funding will help the Great Lakes Commission control the spread of invasive species. Today’s announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways.” “The Great Lakes are part of our way of life in Michigan, driving economic growth and providing safe drinking water for over 40 million people,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is essential to ensuring the Great Lakes are protected for generations to come. I applaud today’s announcement, which will support efforts by the Great Lakes Commission to prevent the spread of harmful invasive species.” The Great Lakes Commission brings together leaders from across the Great Lakes basin to coordinate efforts to protect the Great Lakes and help achieve a collective vision of a healthy, strong Great Lakes. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. They are both cosponsors of the Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act, legislation that would authorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, the Great Lakes Legacy program that deals with contaminated sediments and the Great Lakes National Program Office within the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In February, Stabenow and Peters introduced the Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization, bipartisan legislation to provide better federal funding opportunities to update technologies and create new research projects to benefit the Great Lakes, and close the research gap between the Great Lakes Science Center and other fishery research centers around the country. ###
05.04.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud $1.3 Million Investment for Great Lakes Protection in West Michigan Wednesday, May 04, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded the announcement of over $1.3 million in federal funds to help four projects in West Michigan focus on: controlling and combatting invasive species, restoring wildlife habitats, implementing new conservation measures, and conducting on-farm educational research. The funding comes through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. “The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This funding will help fight invasive species and restore hundreds of acres of shoreline and wetlands in West Michigan. Today’s announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways.” “The Great Lakes are part of our way of life in Michigan, driving economic growth and providing safe drinking water for over 40 million people,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is essential to ensuring the Great Lakes are protected for generations to come. I applaud today’s announcement, which will support efforts across West Michigan to prevent the spread of harmful invasive species and preserve the Great Lakes as a precious resource.” Grand Valley State University will receive $405,275 to fight invasive plant species along 100 acres of coastal shoreline and wetlands in Lake Michigan’s Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore. The Grand Valley Metropolitan Council will receive $340,065 for habit restoration along coastal shorelines and wetlands within urban areas of the Lower Grand River Watershed. The Calhoun Conservation District will receive $160,377 to reduce sediment and nutrient transport to Lake Michigan by constructing a two-stage ditch in the Battle Creek River watershed. The Macatawa Area Coordinating Council will receive $473,111 to implement agricultural best management practices and to participate in on-farm experiential learning programs in Lake Macatawa and Lake Michigan. Senators Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. ###
05.04.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud $1.1 Million for Michigan Technological University to Combat Invasive Species in Saginaw Bay, Lake Huron Wednesday, May 04, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, today applauded the announcement of a $1.1 million grant to help Michigan Technological University control and combat invasive species in the Saginaw Bay and Lake Huron. This funding comes through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. “The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This funding will help fight invasive species and restore hundreds of acres of shoreline and wetlands in the Saginaw Bay and Lake Huron. Today’s announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways.” “The Great Lakes are part of our way of life in Michigan, driving economic growth and providing safe drinking water for over 40 million people,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is essential to ensuring the Great Lakes are protected for generations to come. I applaud today’s announcement, which will support efforts by Michigan Technological University to prevent the spread of harmful invasive species and preserve the Great Lakes as a precious resource.” The funding provided through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) has provided for environmental stewardship of our nation's most critical freshwater resource that was not possible through any other mechanism,” said Guy A. Meadows, Director of the Great Lakes Research Center at the Michigan Technological University. “Michigan Technological University has been dedicated to working closely with our federal partners in GLRI efforts across the Great Lakes basin. These most recent awards will continue our joint efforts in Great Lakes stewardship and provide a wealth of new science and technology to bear on our freshwater resource.” Michigan Technological University will receive $648,799 to fight invasive plant species along 310 acres of coastal shoreline and wetlands in the Saginaw Bay region of Lake Huron. The university will also receive $470,407 to control invasive species on 20 acres of land in the Les Cheneaux Islands of Lake Huron. Senators Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. ###
05.04.2016	Senator Stabenow to Join President Obama in Flint Wednesday, May 04, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) issued the following statement prior to joining President Obama for his visit to Flint, Michigan, where he will meet with families affected by the ongoing water crisis: “I am very pleased that President Obama has made such a commitment to the families of Flint. He has worked so closely with me and our Michigan delegation to bring resources and relief to families in Flint who continue to be affected by the water crisis. I am grateful for the Administration’s work to expand healthcare to all children up to the age of 21 in the city of Flint and to support nutrition programs that will help offset the effects of lead. In the Senate, we recently moved forward with a bipartisan agreement to get urgently-needed help to the families in Flint. It is going to take a lot of hard work, but I’m not going to stop until we get the job done.” If you are a member of the media and want to cover Senator Stabenow’s remarks, please contact Matt Williams at 202-360-5014. ###
05.03.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Legislation to Hold Pension Fund Executives Accountable if Retirees’ Benefits are Cut Tuesday, May 03, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced the introduction of the Pension Fund Integrity Act of 2016 (S. 2894), which would cut pay and prevent raises and bonuses for top pension fund executives if retirees’ benefits are cut. The Central States Pension Fund has submitted an application to the U.S. Department of Treasury that would drastically cut pension benefits for roughly 270,000 retirees across the country. If approved, some retirees could see their pensions reduced as much as 50 to 70 percent. Meanwhile, the top executive of the Central States Pension Fund earned nearly $700,000 in 2014. The bill is also cosponsored by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) The Pension Fund Integrity Act of 2016 would cut excessive executive compensation and stop raises and bonuses for executives as long as the benefit cuts are in place. The amount of the executive pay cut would be determined by calculating the percentage of cuts for retirees most impacted by the reduced pension benefits. The bill also prohibits financially troubled pension plans from using plan assets to hire outside lobbying firms. As just one example, the Central States Pension Fund has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to pay outside lobbyists in recent years to lobby on issues including passing legislation to allow retiree benefits to be cut. “A pension is a promise that’s earned, and workers should be able to count on them when they retire,” said Senator Stabenow. “It’s completely unacceptable that top executives at Central States earned hundreds of thousands of dollars a year while at the same time, pension benefits for retirees who worked hard their entire lives are being slashed. The Pension Fund Integrity Act will hold pension fund executives accountable if retirees’ benefits are cut, and I will continue to do everything I can to protect hardworking retirees’ pensions.” “Thousands of Michigan retirees depend on the pensions they have earned through years of hard work to afford housing, food, health care, and other critical necessities,” said Senator Peters. “It is simply outrageous that plan executives have proposed cutting retiree pensions by as much as 70 percent, but continue to earn six-figure salaries and large bonuses. This bill is a key piece of broader efforts to increase oversight for pension plans and to prevent steep cuts to the benefits retirees have earned and depend on.” The Pension Fund Integrity Act will: Cut excessive executive compensation— This bill will cut excessive compensation for executives at the largest financially troubled plans. The U.S. Department of Treasury would determine the executive pay cut by calculating the percentage of cuts for retirees most impacted by the reduced pension benefits. This would only take effect if the benefit cuts are approved by Treasury. Stop raises and bonuses for executives— This bill will also stop executives from receiving raises or bonuses for as long as the benefit cuts are in effect. This would effectively freeze their compensation. Prohibit financially troubled pension plans from using plan assets to hire outside lobbying firms- This bill will prohibit a financially troubled plan from hiring outside lobbying firms to influence legislation. Employees of the plan could still lobby. ###
05.01.2016	Stabenow Presents Bronze Star to WWII Hero Lt. Col. Alexander Jefferson at Detroit NAACP Dinner Sunday, May 01, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow awarded the Bronze Star Medal to Lt. Col. Alexander Jefferson for his heroic service and meritorious achievements as a Tuskegee Airman and POW during World War II. The ceremony took place at the 61st Annual Detroit NAACP Freedom Fund Dinner. “Alexander Jefferson’s story is so inspiring and needs to be told,” said Stabenow. “As one of the largest gatherings of its kind in the world, presenting this prestigious medal at the Freedom Fund Dinner is a fitting tribute to his incredible life.” Lt. Col. Alexander Jefferson is one of the few remaining Tuskegee Airmen fighter pilots still alive today. He was sworn into the US Army Reserves during WWII where he volunteered to be a flying cadet. On August 12, 1944, Lt. Col. Jefferson began his 19th mission in Europe where he was shot down and taken prisoner by the Nazis. He was a POW for the remainder of the war. On April 29, 1945, his prison camp was liberated but not before he witnessed the atrocities at the Dachau concentration camp. For more information about Lt Col. Jefferson, view a new documentary trailer about his life at https://vimeo.com/dynastymedianetwork/review/116992362/827a3998c5. ###
04.28.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters: Bipartisan Flint Agreement Passes Senate Committee Stabenow, Peters Urge Senator McConnell to Immediately Bring Legislation Before Full Senate for Vote Thursday, April 28, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced that the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works passed their bipartisan agreement to help families in Flint and other communities across the country. Their agreement was part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which passed committee 19-1 and is ready for a vote before the full Senate. “Today, thanks to support from Republicans and Democrats, we are another step closer to passing urgently-needed help for families in Flint and other communities across the country,” said Senator Stabenow. “I urge Senator McConnell to continue this spirit of bipartisanship by bringing this legislation to the Senate floor for a vote as soon as possible.” “I’m pleased that legislation providing much-needed assistance for the City of Flint moved forward in the Senate today. The people of Flint are still without access to clean, safe water, and many are still forced to rely on bottled water for cooking, bathing and drinking,” said Senator Peters. “Senator Stabenow and I will be working with our colleagues to move this bipartisan, fully-paid for legislation through the full Senate so that we can help the people of Flint begin to recover from this catastrophe.” The Stabenow-Peters agreement provides an immediate $100 million in new federal funding to an emergency infrastructure program under the Safe Drinking Water Act. The State of Michigan can access these funds after submitting a comprehensive plan to the EPA. This funding will only be available to a community, like Flint, that received a federal emergency declaration by the President due to a public health threat from high amounts of lead in the water. This language is required because of the Congressional ban on earmarks. The State of Michigan will be given new flexibility to use funding from the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund to forgive Flint’s debts incurred prior to fiscal year 2016, and it lifts the prohibition on using more than 20 percent of the fund’s fiscal year 2016 allotment for principal forgiveness. The agreement also provides funding to activate at least $700 million in low-interest loans to finance much-needed upgrades to public drinking water systems. These loans will be made possible through the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA), which will be available to eligible communities in all states, including Michigan. In addition, there is $17.5 million to create a national registry to monitor health effects of children exposed to lead. Another $32.5 million is provided to help improve the short- and long-term effects of lead poisoning, including providing assistance to pregnant women and new mothers, while educating and informing the public of the dangers of lead exposure. The agreement also includes legislation announced by Senators Peters, Stabenow and Congressman Kildee requiring the EPA to warn the public in the future of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so. The Stabenow-Peters agreement is cosponsored by Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Rob Portman (R-OH), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Richard Burr (R-NC), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Barb Mikulski (D-MD), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). ###
04.26.2016	Stabenow Applauds Expansion of Healthy Food Program in Flint Tuesday, April 26, 2016 United States Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today released the following statement applauding the Fair Food Network’s plans to expand its Double Up Food Bucks program in Flint. This program will give Flint families the ability to double the value of their food assistance for the purchase of healthy fruits and vegetables at local farmers markets and some grocery stores. The Double Up Food Bucks program also served a model in Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill to support the new Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive grant program which ensures all families have access to fresh, locally growing fruits and vegetables. “I applaud the leadership of the Fair Food Network in expanding this innovative program in Flint. Now more than ever, children in Flint need to be eating more healthy fruits and vegetables to help reduce the effects of lead, and this gives families more options. As Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, I have been working with both local and federal partners to provide more healthy food choices for Flint families. These efforts include expanding summer meals to 16,000 Flint children, ensuring infants have ready-to-feed formula available through WIC, and expanding Medicaid eligibility for Flint children. I am also deeply concerned about the lack of grocery stores in some areas of the city and am working with community leaders to help address this critical problem.” ###
04.26.2016	Senator Stabenow: Help for Flint Included in Water Resources Bill Tuesday, April 26, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the inclusion of her bipartisan Flint agreement, co-authored by Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), in the Water Resources Development Act. The U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee is expected to consider this legislation this week. “I am pleased we have successfully found a new path forward to get urgently-needed help for families in Flint and other communities across the country with serious lead and water issues. I want to thank Chairman Inhofe and Ranking Member Boxer for continuing to work with us to include help for Flint in the Water Resources Development Act. This is an important step, and I am not giving up until this gets done.” ###
04.22.2016	Stabenow, Peters Urge Swift Completion of Plan to Reduce Sulfur Dioxide Air Pollution Friday, April 22, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters sent a letter urging the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop a Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) to reduce sulfur dioxide levels and other air pollution in Wayne County to protect the health and well-being of Michigan residents if the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) fails to submit a final State Implementation Plan (SIP) within 60 days. In July 2013, part of Wayne County was found to have sulfur dioxide levels above the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, but MDEQ has failed to submit a finalized SIP to address sulfur dioxide pollution for over a year. “Residents of Wayne County simply cannot afford to wait for the process to drag on any longer,” wrote Senators Peters and Stabenow. “In light of continued delays, as well as a lack of action in responding to the Flint water emergency, we are concerned that the MDEQ is not fully committed to this process. If the EPA finds that the State and private stakeholders are unable to work expeditiously enough to develop an effective plan by the end of spring, we urge you to move forward with a Federal Implementation Plan that protects the health and well-being of the people of Wayne County.” The State of Michigan was required to submit a State Implementation Plan to EPA outlining their efforts to reduce sulfur dioxide pollution by April 2015. MDEQ released a draft State Implementation Plan in August 2015, but has failed to submit and implement a final plan to reduce sulfur dioxide pollution, meet national air quality standards and protect the health of Wayne County residents. Exposure to sulfur dioxide can have negative effects on respiratory and cardiovascular health. Asthmatics and children are particularly sensitive to high levels of sulfur dioxide. Detroit residents have a rate of asthma-related hospitalization that is three times higher than the Michigan statewide rate, and asthma is the single largest cause of student absenteeism in Detroit. The full text of the letter is copied below and available here: April 22, 2016 Administrator Gina McCarthy U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W. Washington, DC 20004 Dear Administrator McCarthy, We write to express great concern about the State of Michigan’s failure to submit an Implementation Plan to address sulfur dioxide emissions in Wayne County, MI. Given the threats to public health from continued noncompliance with national air quality standards, it is critical that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) require an Implementation Plan as soon as possible—the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) plan is already well past due. If MDEQ fails to finalize an effective Implementation Plan over the next 60 days, we would urge the EPA to pursue a Federal Implementation Plan. A strong sense of urgency is needed to reduce sulfur dioxide levels and other air pollution in Wayne County in order to improve the health of Michigan residents. As you know, in July 2013 a portion of Wayne County was designated as having sulfur dioxide levels above National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The state was required to submit its Implementation Plan to the EPA by April 2015. MDEQ released a draft Implementation Plan in August 2015, but the plan did little to demonstrate how this non-attainment area would meet national air quality standards. On March 10, 2016, the EPA issued a finding of Michigan’s failure to submit an Implementation Plan. Residents of Wayne County simply cannot afford to wait for the process to drag on any longer. Detroit and Wayne County residents are at risk of exposure to high levels of sulfur dioxide, which is well documented to cause significant respiratory and cardiovascular problems. Asthmatics are particularly sensitive to exposure to high levels of sulfur dioxide. The rate of asthma hospitalization for Detroit residents is three times higher than that of Michigan as a whole. This burden is disproportionately placed on children. In Detroit, asthma is the largest single cause of student absenteeism. The EPA should ensure that a strong and effective Implementation Plan to meet national air quality standards in Wayne County is in place as soon as possible. In light of continued delays, as well as a lack of action in responding to the Flint water emergency, we are concerned that the MDEQ is not fully committed to this process. If the EPA finds that the State and private stakeholders are unable to work expeditiously to develop an effective Implementation Plan by the end of spring, we urge you to move forward with a Federal Implementation Plan that will get the job done protects the health and wellbeing of the people of Wayne County. Sincerely, ###
04.22.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Marion Community Fire Department Friday, April 22, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $108,000 for Marion Community Fire Department in Marion to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Marion put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “First responders and firefighters play a critical role in keeping Marion families safe from harm,” said Senator Peters. “It is important that they have the training and equipment needed to protect themselves, so that they can help protect others. With this grant, these brave men and women will be better equipped to respond to an emergency.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
04.22.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for the City of Allen Park Fire Department Friday, April 22, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced $59,091 for the City of Allen Park Community Fire Department in Allen Park to help purchase equipment. This grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “Our firefighters in Allen Park put their lives on the line to protect our families and homes,” said Senator Stabenow. “Thanks to these new resources, these brave men and women will have the equipment they need to help them do their jobs more safely and effectively.” “First responders and firefighters play a critical role in keeping Allen Park families safe from harm,” said Senator Peters. “It is important that they have the training and equipment needed to protect themselves, so that they can help protect others. With this grant, these brave men and women will be better equipped to respond to an emergency.” Eligible fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations in Michigan and across the country can apply for Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These competitive grants help first responders purchase the equipment and obtain the training needed to handle fire-related hazards. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. ###
04.21.2016	Sen. Stabenow Statement on Drs. Mona Hanna-Attisha and Marc Edwards Being Named on TIME’s 100 Most Influential People List Thursday, April 21, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement after Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha and Dr. Marc Edwards were both named on TIME’s list of the 100 most influential people in the world. “When there is a crisis in our community, we hope there are individuals courageous enough to step up on behalf of families whose voices are not being heard. In Flint, those heroes were Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha and Dr. Marc Edwards. Both responded to a serious problem and applied their knowledge and expertise to demonstrate the severity of the public health crisis. This recognition could not have gone to two more deserving individuals, and we’ll always remember the role they played in helping the children and families of Flint.” ###
04.20.2016	Peters-Alexander-Stabenow Vehicle Innovation Act Passes Senate Bipartisan Clean Vehicle Tech Bill Included in Bipartisan Energy Bill Wednesday, April 20, 2016 The U.S. Senate today approved the bipartisan Vehicle Innovation Act, authored by U.S. Senators Gary Peters (D-MI), Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). The bill was included as a provision in a broader bipartisan energy bill, which passed the Senate. The Vehicle Innovation Act (VIA) promotes investments in research and development of clean vehicle and advanced safety technologies that will create more fuel-efficient vehicles, reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil and support American auto manufacturers. “The cars and trucks of the future will be equipped with technology making them safer and more fuel efficient, and we must ensure that the United States leads the way in developing these innovations,” said Senator Peters. “These emerging technologies will not only help lower fuel costs for businesses and consumers, their development will help create jobs in Michigan and across the country. I’m pleased the Senate passed this legislation that will make critical investments in our manufacturing industry, and I urge the House to swiftly approve it so that our auto manufacturers and suppliers can continue developing the next big thing in advanced vehicle technology.” “I am glad the Energy Policy Modernization Act includes provisions from the Vehicle Innovation Act that support research to develop more fuel-efficient cars and lighter trucks,” Senator Alexander said. “This is good news for Tennessee’s expanding auto industry and will complement current efforts at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where scientists are already researching ways to make advanced, light-weight materials cheaper for auto manufacturers.” “Michigan has always been a leader in manufacturing, but we can only continue our success against companies on the other side of the world if we invest in new technologies,” said Senator Stabenow, senior member on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. “Our measure will help manufacturers and suppliers research and develop innovative technologies to make the next generation of fuel-efficient vehicles, spurring job growth and reducing our dependence on foreign oil.” The Vehicle Innovation Act reauthorizes and modernizes the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Program, which works with light duty automobile and medium and heavy-duty commercial truck manufacturers and suppliers to conduct research and development to improve fuel efficiency in vehicles. Examples of these technologies include mild hybrid, engine down speeding, power pack modeling and testing, advanced boosting systems, hydrogen and natural gas refueling and electric vehicle charging technology. The legislation also encourages the development and use of vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications systems that have the potential to improve fuel efficiency and reduce traffic accidents and congestion. “The Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) applauds today’s Senate passage of legislation that includes the Vehicle Innovation Act. Motor vehicle component manufacturers are focused on the research, development and deployment of technologies that will improve vehicle fuel efficiency and lower emissions will assist vehicle manufacturers to meet future fuel efficiency and emissions requirements,” said Steve Handschuh, President and Chief Executive Officer of MEMA. “The programs in this bill will support domestic research and manufacturing activities and lead to greater consumer choice of vehicle technologies. Sens. Peters, Alexander and Stabenow are to be congratulated for their leadership on behalf of the supplier industry and today’s passage of this important legislation.” “The Auto Alliance commends Senate passage of this comprehensive, bipartisan energy bill that contains many important provisions, including the Vehicle Innovation Act, championed by Sens. Peters, Alexander and Stabenow,” said Jennifer Thomas, Vice President, Federal Government Affairs of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers. “This provision will help speed the proliferation of advanced technology and alternative fuel vehicles. Automakers and our suppliers remain focused on the introduction and deployment of these fuel-efficient vehicles as we strive to address our nation’s energy security and environmental concerns. The Vehicle Innovation Act will aid these ongoing efforts and support the research and design of the next generation of fuel-efficient vehicle technologies.” “The passage of this legislation greatly enhances the development and introduction of new automotive technologies by suppliers such as Magna, which will assist us as we help work with automakers to reach future CAFÉ goals,” said Frank W. Ervin III, Senior Director, Government Affairs for Magna International. “We greatly appreciate the hard work Senators Peters, Alexander and Stabenow have put in to get this legislation passed.” The Vehicle Innovation Act is supported by a broad coalition of environmental groups and manufacturers including the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA), the BlueGreen Alliance, the Auto Alliance, NTEA - the Association for the Work Truck Industry, the United Auto Workers, the League of Conservation Voters, the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club, the American Automotive Policy Council, the Electric Drive Transportation Association, Robert Bosch LLC, the LORD Corporation, Umicore, Bergstrom, Magna International, Inc., and Dorman Products, Inc. ###
04.20.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters and Congressman Kildee Announce Major Victory to Continue Blight Removal Efforts in Michigan Michigan Received More From Hardest Hit Fund Than Any State in Latest Round; Michigan Has Received More Than $262 Million in New Funding This Year Wednesday, April 20, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI), announced that Michigan will receive a $188.1 million award from the Hardest Hit Fund through the U.S. Department of Treasury. With today’s announcement, Michigan has received a total of $262.59 million this year to continue the revitalization of neighborhoods. Earlier this year, Michigan received $74.49 million from the Hardest Hit Fund. The Hardest Hit Fund gives resources to states for blight removal and to help struggling homeowners. Late last year, Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee led a major effort to give the Treasury Department flexibility to transfer $2 billion to the Hardest Hit Fund, which would have run out of funding this spring. The Treasury Department distributed the $2 billion Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee helped secure in two separate rounds. Michigan received $74.49 million in the first round and will receive $188.1 million in today’s second round. Hardest Hit Fund awards are given to the Michigan State Housing Development Authority, which allocates funding to local communities. “Today’s announcement is a major win for Michigan and the direct result of a hard-fought victory to secure this new funding last December,” said Senator Stabenow. “Michigan has been a national model for blight removal, which is making neighborhoods safer and spurring economic growth. Thanks to this new funding, and funding announced earlier this year, we can keep the momentum going.” “Communities across Michigan have used the Hardest Hit Fund with great success to tackle blight and help revitalize their neighborhoods,” said Senator Peters. “This new round of funding will bolster efforts to remove blight and help attract new investments and development so Michigan communities can continue to recover and grow. I’m proud to have worked with Senator Stabenow and Congressman Kildee to ensure additional blight removal funding would be available to our communities in need of these vital resources.” “Communities across Michigan will benefit greatly from this huge influx of federal funds,” Congressman Kildee said. “Removing blight raises property values for surrounding homeowners, decreases violent crime and unlocks greater opportunity for all families. Securing these funds has been a top priority and I look forward to seeing the real positive impact this initiative will have on neighborhoods across the state.” The first $1 billion was automatically allocated to 18 states and the District of Columbia based on population size, need and how much previous Hardest Hit Fund awards had been drawn down. Based on this criteria, Michigan received $74.49 million. The second $1 billion is being distributed to eligible states through a competitive application process. Michigan will receive $188.1 million, more than any other state in this competitive round. Since 2010, Michigan has utilized $440.8 million from the Hardest Hit Fund to assist homeowners, remove blight, and support other efforts to revitalize neighborhoods. ###
04.19.2016	Senator Stabenow Meets with Supreme Court Nominee Chief Judge Merrick Garland Meeting Occurred on 21st Anniversary of Oklahoma City Bombing; Garland Oversaw the Prosecution as Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General Tuesday, April 19, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with President Obama’s nominee for the Supreme Court, Chief Judge Merrick Garland. Following the meeting, Stabenow called Judge Garland an eminently qualified Supreme Court nominee and urged Senate Republicans to do their job by holding a public hearing and a vote on his nomination. “Today I had the privilege of meeting personally with Chief Judge Merrick Garland, President Obama’s nominee for the Supreme Court. We had a very productive conversation about his judicial approach and philosophy and his decades of experience as a judge and prosecutor. I also had an opportunity to ask about his work at the Justice Department overseeing the investigation and prosecution of the Oklahoma City bombing. His commitment to justice for the victims was remarkable and had a lasting impact on his life’s work. I am confident Judge Garland is a highly qualified Supreme Court nominee and that he would be an outstanding U.S. Supreme Court justice. “The Senate has a Constitutional duty to provide advice and consent on Judge Garland’s nomination through a fair confirmation process. I join the overwhelming majority of Americans in calling for a public hearing and vote on Judge Garland’s nomination. It’s time for Senate Republicans to do their job.” Merrick Garland is a highly-respected and experienced jurist, who has served as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals, served under both Republican and Democratic presidents, supervised major cases at the Department of Justice like the prosecution of the Oklahoma City bombing, and clerked for Supreme Court Justice Brennan. President Clinton nominated Garland and he was appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in 1997. On April 19, 1995, a truck bomb exploded outside the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, killing 168 people and injuring 500. Garland demanded that he be sent to Oklahoma City to begin the investigation. He led the investigation and supervised the prosecution that brought Timothy McVeigh, and his accomplice Terry Nichols, to justice. Since hearings began in 1916, every pending Supreme Court nominee has received a hearing, except nine nominees who were all confirmed within 11 days of their nomination. Not since the Civil War has the Senate taken longer than a year to fill a Supreme Court vacancy. The Senate has confirmed Supreme Court Justices in the final year of a presidency, and has done so more than a dozen times. Most recently, Justice Kennedy was confirmed in the last year of President Reagan’s final term, and the Democratically-controlled Senate confirmed him unanimously. ###
04.14.2016	Senate Democratic Leaders Urge Colleagues to Sign New Letter Calling on Sens. McConnell and Grassley to Hold Garland Hearings New Letter Will Be Kept Open For All U.S. Senators to Sign, Giving Senate Republicans, in Particular, the Opportunity To Show Real Leadership In Their Party; Letter Urges Senators McConnell And Grassley To Listen To American People & Do Their Job By Giving Garland Fair Confirmation Process Thursday, April 14, 2016 Senate Democratic Leaders, led by Senators Harry Reid, Dick Durbin, Charles E. Schumer, Patty Murray, Debbie Stabenow and Bob Casey urged the entire United States Senate to sign a new letter, organized by the Democratic Leadership and Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Patrick Leahy, urging Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Judiciary Committee Chair Charles Grassley to give President Obama’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Merrick Garland, a fair confirmation process. By opening up the letter for signature to the full United States Senate, Republicans are being given the opportunity to show real leadership in their party and do more than the bare minimum of holding closed-press meetings with Judge Garland. Senate Democratic leaders announced the new letter in the U.S. Capitol Building today and also argued that the American people deserve to hear from Judge Garland themselves in the form of public hearings, especially since there are new reports that Republicans are asking substantive questions in their private meetings. “The Senate has held public confirmation hearings on Supreme Court nominees for a hundred years. If Republicans refuse to uphold that standard now, they will be setting a new low in transparent government,” said Senator Reid. “Out-of-sight meetings where Republican Senators can slip out the back door to avoid reporters are not transparent and they’re not nearly enough. Today, we’re giving all members of the Senate a chance to do the right thing and tell Mitch McConnell and Chuck Grassley to do their job and give Judge Garland the fair confirmation process any nominee deserves.” “More and more Republican and Democratic senators have had private meetings to ask questions of Judge Garland, but the American people deserve to hear from the President’s nominee too. That means a public hearing for all to see,” said Senator Durbin. “The Constitution is clear on Supreme Court vacancies. The American people agree, and Senate Democrats are ready to do our job and give the President’s nominee full and fair public consideration.” “The American people should have the same opportunity to hear from Judge Garland that Republicans have had behind closed doors,” said Senator Schumer. “Not every senator has to agree on a particular nominee, but we should all be able to agree to do our jobs as Senators. I hope that our Republican colleagues will join us in supporting the next step in this process, and give the American people the chance to hear from the Judge himself.” “I had the opportunity to meet with Judge Garland and discuss his background, experiences, and judicial philosophy—but my constituents should be able to hear directly from him as well,” said Senator Murray. “Republican leaders need to listen to the people they represent and allow Judge Garland to have a hearing in the Judiciary Committee, answer questions under oath, and make his case. If Republicans don’t like what Judge Garland has to say, they are welcome to vote no—but there is no good reason for them to refuse to do their jobs and refuse to give him a hearing.” “Senate Republicans have an opportunity to do the right thing by calling for public hearings and a vote on Chief Judge Garland’s nomination,” said Senator Stabenow. “No nominee has ever been treated this way. The American people have spoken loudly and clearly. It’s time for Republicans to do their job.” “It’s time for Senate Republicans to end these outrageous games and do their jobs,” Senator Casey said. “Judge Garland deserves a fair hearing and a timely vote- anything less is an abrogation of our basic duties.” The full text of the new letter can be found below: The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Charles E. Grassley 317 Russell Senate Office Building 224 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Chairman Grassley: This week marks one month since Chief Judge Merrick Garland’s nomination to the Supreme Court. We stand ready to fulfill our sworn oaths to uphold the Constitution by providing advice and consent on Chief Judge Garland’s nomination. That is what an overwhelming majority of Americans are demanding we do. A recent poll shows that nearly 70 percent of Americans – including a majority of Republicans – say that Senators should do their jobs and proceed with a hearing for Chief Judge Garland. We urge you to listen to the American people and allow all Senators to do our jobs by giving Chief Judge Garland a hearing and a vote. No nominee has ever been treated this way. Since public confirmation hearings of Supreme Court nominees began in the Judiciary Committee in 1916, the Senate has never denied a Supreme Court nominee a hearing and a vote. We urge you to consider Chief Judge Garland’s nomination consistent with the average confirmation schedule for Supreme Court nominees since 1975 based on data from the Congressional Research Service. Following this precedent, the Judiciary Committee should commence hearings on Chief Judge Garland’s nomination by April 27 and hold a Committee vote by May 12. The full Senate should vote on his nomination by Memorial Day. In the month that Chief Judge Garland’s nomination has been pending, the Supreme Court has already deadlocked twice and was not able to carry out its constitutional role as the final arbiter of our Nation’s laws. Where you live will impact what your rights are. That is unacceptable and harms our constitutional democracy. Your refusal to consider Chief Judge Garland’s nomination means the Supreme Court will be weakened and unable to fulfill its constitutional role for two terms. We are encouraged that members of both parties have begun to meet with Chief Judge Garland as the first step to his confirmation process in the Senate. Meeting with Chief Judge Garland is also a basic courtesy to this fair-minded, accomplished nominee, who has spent almost three decades in public service and has more federal judicial experience than any Supreme Court nominee in history. He has committed much of his life to public service – from his days at the Justice Department working as a prosecutor on the ground in the aftermath of the devastating Oklahoma City bombing to his nearly two decades as a Federal appellate judge. Every Senator should agree to shake his hand and sit down to meet with him. Meeting with Chief Judge Garland, however, is only the first step. A full and fair examination of his record at a public hearing in the Judiciary Committee is needed before the full Senate votes on his nomination. It is no surprise that the overwhelming majority of Americans want Chief Judge Garland to have a public hearing. A public hearing would allow Americans to engage in the process of considering the nomination and hearing directly from Chief Judge Garland on his record and his responses on important legal questions. One of the Senate’s most important and solemn responsibilities to is to provide advice and consent on Supreme Court nominees. We have heard the American people. We urge you to listen to them and allow Senators to do their jobs by considering Chief Judge Garland’s nomination without further delay. Sincerely, ###
04.14.2016	Stabenow Calls for Passage of Equal Pay Act Paycheck Fairness Act would close wage gap costing women $430,480 over their careers Thursday, April 14, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow was joined at a press conference by U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Al Franken (D-Minn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) along with representatives of the National Partnership for Women & Families, American Association of University Women (AAUW), National Women’s Law Center (NWLC), MomsRising and Equal Pay Today. Each renewed their call urging Congress to take up and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation introduced to help close the wage gap between women and men working equivalent jobs, amounting to a yearly wage gap of $12,191 between men and women who work full time in Michigan. “It’s outrageous that a mechanical engineer from Houghton, MI makes less than the men she supervises,” said Senator Stabenow. “It’s long past time that we pass the Paycheck Fairness Act so women and their families have a fair shot to get ahead.” While women in Michigan still make on average 75 cents to every dollar made by a male, the Paycheck Fairness Act builds on the promise of the Equal Pay Act, passed more than 50 years ago on June 10, 1963. It helps close the pay gap by empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, closing loopholes courts have created in the law, creating strong incentives for employers to obey the laws and strengthening federal outreach and enforcement efforts. The legislation would require employers to demonstrate that wage gaps between men and women doing the same work have a business justification and are truly a result of factors other than gender. The bill would prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who share salary information with their co-workers. The Paycheck Fairness Act would also strengthen the U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) ability to help women achieve pay equity by requiring DOL to enhance outreach and training efforts to work with employers in order to eliminate pay disparities and to continue to collect and disseminate wage information based on gender. The bill would also create a competitive grant program to provide negotiation skills training programs for girls and women. The legislation builds on the historic Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act signed into law by President Obama in 2009, which overturned the 180-day statute of limitations for women to contest pay discrimination. It was an important down-payment in ending the pay gap and keeping the courthouse doors open. The Paycheck Fairness Act will close the loopholes that allow pay discrimination to continue in the first place. ###
04.11.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Rev. Nicholas Hood Sr. Monday, April 11, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement following the passing of Rev. Nicholas Hood Sr.: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of Rev. Nick Hood, a champion of the Civil Rights Movement, devoted minister, and dedicated Detroit public servant. A founding member of the Southern Christian Leadership Council, he committed his life to breaking down the barriers of prejudice to achieve social justice. My thoughts and prayers go out to Rev. Hood’s entire family and to everyone whose lives he touched.” ###
04.08.2016	With the End of the School Year Approaching, Stabenow Announces Nearly $7 Million in Funding To Help More Than 83,000 Michigan Children Receive Healthy Meals During Summer Months Friday, April 08, 2016 Today, United States Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, joined local partners and school children participating in the Flint Police Activities League to announce $6.9 million in federal funding to help 83, 701 Michigan children receive healthy meals this summer. Thanks to this funding, nearly 16,000 Flint school children and 43,000 Detroit school children will now be eligible for expanded access to healthy meals during the upcoming summer months. Stabenow, who made the announcement at the Haskell Youth Center in Flint, was joined by United States Department of Agriculture’s Under Secretary for Food and Nutrition Services Kevin Concannon. “This investment comes at a critical time for thousands of children in Michigan,” Stabenow said. “Children often go hungry in the summer when they no longer have access to nutritious meals at school. We need to ensure that no child goes hungry because school is out. That’s why I made expanding summer meals a priority in my bipartisan child nutrition bill and will work to get that bill passed through the Senate as soon as possible. “This announcement is also important for many children affected by the public health crisis in Flint,” Stabenow continued. “We know that good nutrition is critical to helping combat the effect of lead exposure. That’s why I urged Secretary Vilsack to make this important nutrition investment and I thank him and President Obama for making the children and families in Flint a top priority.” Today’s announcement is great news for the more than 83,000 Michigan students who will now be eligible to participate in the Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) for Children program in 2016. Children who participate must be eligible for free and reduced priced meals during the school year and will receive either $30 or $60 per month to spend on specific food items – approved through the WIC program– that helps ensure children continue eating healthy meals while school is out. Since 2013, Michigan has served as one of six states piloting the Summer EBT program. Building on Michigan’s success with the summer meal program, Stabenow has lead the efforts to expand the program nationally in her bipartisan child nutrition reauthorization bill which passed the Senate Agriculture Committee unanimously in January. That bill is currently waiting for a full Senate vote. Stabenow has worked to bring much needed federal nutrition programs and nutrition education to aid in Flint’s recovery. In February, following calls by Stabenow to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the United States Department of Agriculture announced that it was taking additional steps to help low-income families in Flint. Stabenow has also lead the charge on making sure that ready-to-feed formula is available to mothers in Flint using the WIC program. Ready-to-feed is critical so families do not have to mix infant formula with water.
03.31.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Direct Flight from Lansing to Washington D.C. Will Resume U.S. Department of Transportation Awards American Airlines Slot Exemption to Reestablish Direct Service Thursday, March 31, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that direct service from Michigan’s capital to the nation’s capital will resume, benefiting local businesses and supporting economic growth in Mid-Michigan. The U.S. Department of Transportation has granted American Airlines a slot exemption to provide direct service after Sun Country Airlines stopped service last October. American Airlines could resume nonstop service as soon as June 29, 2016. “Securing a direct flight in 2011 was one of my top priorities for this region and has provided a major economic boost to Mid-Michigan and the entire state,” said Senator Stabenow. “It was critical that Lansing keep this direct route, which benefits Michigan State University and FRIB, provides better access for local businesses to our nation’s capital, and supports Port Lansing’s international trade facilities. This is an important opportunity for the region to continue demonstrating the strong customer demand for daily nonstop service.” “Direct service between Michigan’s capital and the nation’s capital is vital for the economic strength of the entire Mid-Michigan region,” said Senator Peters. “I’m proud I was able to work with Senator Stabenow to urge the Department of Transportation to replace nonstop service between Lansing and Washington, DC. This helps ensure that the Lansing area can continue to boost economic development and attract new businesses, while also providing Mid-Michigan residents with a convenient, cost-effective connection point for travel throughout the country.” “Restoring air service to Washington Reagan National Airport is essential to the economic growth and development of Mid-Michigan, and Michigan’s state capital. Washington DC is Mid-Michigan’s number one travel destination,” said Robert Selig, President and CEO of the Capital Region Airport Authority. “The reestablishment of service with American Airlines would not have been possible without the aggressive efforts of Senator Stabenow, Senator Peters, Congressman Bishop, and Congressman Moolenaar and the over 1200 businesses and individuals from the Mid-Michigan region who wrote letters to the DOT in support of restoring the Washington DC service.” “The application approval represents a ‘win-win-win’ opportunity that will help create and retain jobs in Michigan, grow our regional economy and ensure Lansing’s airport remains a cornerstone of our regions business development strategies,” said Tim Daman, President & CEO, Lansing Regional Chamber of Commerce. “We are delighted that the Department of Transportation has agreed to add additional non-stop service from Lansing to Washington, DC.” said Dr. Lou Anna K. Simon, President of Michigan State University. “This service will facilitate continued close contact with the federal agencies who support our work. We look forward to working with American Airlines as they join our region.” ###
03.28.2016	Stabenow Applauds New USDA Initiative to Improve Water Quality in the Western Lake Erie Basin Monday, March 28, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, applauded the United States Department of Agriculture’s announcement of a new initiative to improve water quality in the Western Lake Erie Basin. The Initiative – led by USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service – will complement ongoing conservation efforts in the region and invest more than $40 million in the watershed over the next three years. That funding is in addition to the $36 million USDA has already made available through the 2014 Farm Bill for a total of $77 million. “The algae blooms in Lake Erie that shut down Toledo’s water system in 2014 are a wake-up call about why investments in conservation are critically important to the health of our Great Lakes and drinking water,” said Senator Stabenow. “Threats of future outbreaks are still a reality. This funding builds on the historic investments we made in the 2014 Farm Bill and makes sure that there is coordinated, long-term strategy to address these threats.” Today’s announcement follows a call by Senator Stabenow, as well as Senate Agriculture Committee members Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Joe Donnelly (D-IN), in July 2015 to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. They urged the USDA to develop additional, long-term strategies – in partnership with local farmers and producers – to help improve water quality in the basin. According to USDA, the Western Lake Erie Basin Initiative will focus on four key areas to help protect and improve water quality in Lake Erie: avoiding excess nutrient application, controlling nutrient and sediment movement, trapping nutrient and sediment losses, and managing hydrological pathways to reduce nutrient and sediment losses. These efforts will complement the ongoing Western Lake Erie Basin Phosphorus Reduction Initiative which was funded through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program created in Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill. That partnership, which is the largest Regional Conservation Partnership Project in the country with over $17 million in funding, is working with farmers and producers throughout the watershed to reduce phosphorus and sediment runoff to help reduce toxic algal blooms in Lake Erie. Stabenow is a strong advocate for the Great Lakes. As Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force and as Ranking Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, she is focused on threats to our Great Lakes including nuclear waste, algae blooms, pipeline safety, invasive species, microbeads, harbor maintenance, and sufficient funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.
03.22.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement Following Attacks in Brussels Tuesday, March 22, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the attacks in Brussels: “America stands with the people of Belgium following this morning’s horrific terror attacks in Brussels. The United States and our allies will not stop until those responsible are brought to justice.”
03.16.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Announcement of Supreme Court Nominee Wednesday, March 16, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) made the following statement regarding the nomination of Chief Judge Merrick Garland of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court: “One of the most important Constitutional duties as a United States Senator is to confirm Justices of the Supreme Court. It is essential that the next Justice be highly-qualified as well as fair and impartial. In the coming weeks, I will carefully review Judge Merrick Garland’s record. This is a job I take very seriously, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. The American people deserve fair and open hearings and a vote on the President’s nominee to the highest court in the land.”
03.11.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Over $3 Million Award to Michigan Community Health Centers for Substance Abuse Treatment Friday, March 11, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today applauded an over $3 million award to 10 Michigan Community Health Centers. The funding, which will be used to improve and expand access to substance abuse services, comes through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and was made available by the Affordable Care Act. “Families who have a loved one dealing with substance abuse know all too well how this addiction can shatter lives, and the intolerable lack of treatment options available to them,” said Senator Stabenow. “These resources help address a critical unmet need in Michigan for more treatment options to deal with this devastating and costly problem.” “Michigan’s Community Health Centers provide critical support and treatment to patients struggling with substance and opioid abuse who might otherwise be unable to get the help they need,” said Senator Peters. “This funding will help provide additional opportunities for lifesaving substance abuse care in communities across our state.” $3,439,383 was awarded to health centers across Michigan. This funding is projected to support 31 new full-time employees and 3,991 new patients. Community health centers play a vital role in delivering health care and substance abuse services in high-need communities, whose residents typically lack insurance.
03.03.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Announcement to Expand Medicaid for Flint Children, Pregnant Women Thursday, March 03, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, today issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announcement to expand Medicaid eligibility for thousands of pregnant women and children in Flint. This announcement follows a letter sent by Senator Stabenow, along with Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI), calling on HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell to allow coverage for Flint’s children up to the age of 21: “For nearly two years children in Flint were poisoned by their own drinking water because of a series of decisions made by the State of Michigan. Today’s announcement is a very significant step forward to ensure thousands of innocent children and pregnant moms have the comprehensive health and nutrition services they need to address the serious lead-exposure issues they may face. This Medicaid expansion also creates hope as well as help for Flint families who are eager to provide their children with the best possible opportunities for healthy and successful lives.”
02.26.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce New Legislation to Help Improve Health Care Services for Children in Schools The Hallways to Health Act will help school-based health centers strengthen health care services for children Friday, February 26, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, and Gary Peters (D-MI) yesterday introduced the Hallways to Health Act (S.2590) to help school-based health centers improve health care services for children. In Michigan, there are more than 120 school-based health centers that play a major role in providing basic health services for thousands of students who have limited access to medical care outside of school. Typically, a school-based health center provides a combination of primary care, mental health care, substance abuse counseling, case management, dental health, nutrition education, health education and health promotion activities. Congresswoman Lois Capps (D-CA) has introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Too many children across our state do not have access to a family doctor and depend on basic health care services during the school day,” said Senator Stabenow. “The Hallways to Health Act will help school-based health centers with new resources to strengthen and improve health care services for children in need of care.” “The Hallways to Health Act will improve access to quality health care services and healthy behaviors education for students in Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “Better connecting school-based health centers with skilled professionals who offer timely, specialized treatment will not only enhance wellness but boost educational outcomes as well.” “School-Based Health Centers help ensure that all children have access to health and mental health care services,” Congresswoman Capps said. “As a school nurse, I have seen firsthand the link between health status and educational outcomes. School-based health centers are an important tool to keep kids healthy, in the classroom, and learning. These centers are often the only access students have to vital health services and they help ensure students get the care they need when they need it.” “We are very excited that Senators Stabenow and Peters are introducing the Hallways to Health bill that will increase access to integrated health care service for children and youth,” said John Bindas, CEO of the School Community Health Alliance of Michigan. “We especially appreciate Senator Stabenow’s leadership and vision related to ensuring increased access to health care services including mental health. Michigan is a leader in the school health movement and is committed to ensuring every child in Michigan receives quality health care and support services.” “With the introduction of Hallways to Health, Congress is taking a monumental step towards increasing access to primary care and mental health services for our nation’s most vulnerable children and adolescents, and securing the status of school-based health centers as an essential component of our health care safety net,” said John Schlitt, President of the School-Based Health Alliance. The Hallways to Health Act will provide grants for school-based health centers that partner with community health care workers who can coordinate care and services in the community for families. The legislation will also create a demonstration project to provide telehealth services at centers and expand existing telehealth services in medically underserved areas. Finally, the bill will ensure school-based health centers can be reimbursed for covered services under Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program at the same level as services provided in a physician’s office or outpatient clinic. Senator Stabenow championed the School-Based Health Center Capital Program as part of the Affordable Care Act to help centers access critical funding for construction, renovation and equipment needs. The Health Resources and Services Administration, an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, oversees the School-Based Health Center Capital Program.
02.25.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce Bill to Improve Student Health Thursday, February 25, 2016 Yesterday, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI), Gary Peters (MI), Jon Tester (MT) and Jack Reed (RI) introduced legislation to hire more school nurses and improve student health. The NURSE Act will allow schools or state agencies to apply for federal grants to reduce the cost of hiring a nurse. School districts will be eligible to apply for the additional resources based on the number of their students who qualify for free or reduced price school meals – an across-the-board indicator of poverty within school districts. In 2012, the Michigan School Nurse Task Force found that Michigan ranked very last among states in the ratio of school nurses to students with one nurse for every 4,411 students. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) recommends a ratio of one nurse to every 750 students. “Whether it’s responding to an emergency or diagnosing a health issue early on, school nurses provide critical health care services for our children,” said Senator Stabenow. “By helping schools with additional resources to hire a nurse, we’re giving students in need of care a better chance of succeeding in the classroom.” “School nurses play a vital role in fostering a learning environment that keeps students healthy and thriving,” said Senator Peters. “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the NURSE Act so that we can better address school nurse shortages and expand access to health services and management of chronic health issues to promote wellness in the classroom.” “Improving the health of our students will help them succeed in the classroom. Kids who are sick can’t learn,” Senator Tester said. “Often times schools are the only place children receive health care and increasing the number of nurses in our schools will remove some of the barriers that have kept some students from reaching their full potential.” “School nurses are important advocates for families and kids. They help ensure all students are healthy and ready to learn,” said Senator Reed. “The connection between school nursing and student success is especially important in low-income communities. Students who are at higher risk for health conditions really benefit from having access to health services that promote wellness and increase school attendance. The NURSE Act would create a new, competitive grant program that schools in Rhode Island and nationwide could apply for to support greater access to school nurses and healthier schools.” According to the National Association of School Nurses, only 45 percent of public schools have a full-time nurse available to students and another 30 percent of schools only have a part-time nurse. The grants established in this bill will be administered by the U.S. Department of Education and a school district can apply for the grant individually or as a group with other school districts. State agencies are also eligible to join school districts in applying for the grant to support individual districts along with statewide school health initiatives. To encourage state agencies and school districts to continue investing in school nurses after the grant expires, the NURSE Act requires school districts to provide matching funds to receive the grant. The federal share of the grant will start at 75 percent of the overall cost of hiring a school nurse and gradually shrink over the succeeding years of the grant. The NURSE Act is supported by the National Association of School Nurses, American Federation of Teachers, National Education Association, American Nurses Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Trust for America’s Health. You can read what they are saying about the bill here.
02.23.2016	Stabenow, Peters, Benishek Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Boost Great Lakes Funding, Modernize Research Capabilities Tuesday, February 23, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI), Gary Peters (MI) and Reps. Dan Benishek, M.D. (MI-1) and Mike Quigley (IL-5) today introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to spur Great Lakes funding and research efforts and help support effective fishery management decisions. The Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization (GLFRA) Act gives the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) the clear legislative authority it needs to support the $7 billion Great Lakes sport and commercial fishery industry. This bill will provide better federal funding opportunities to update technologies and create new research projects to benefit the Great Lakes, which hold one-fifth of the world’s fresh water surface water. This legislation will help close the resource gap between the Great Lakes Science Center and other fishery research centers across the country. Despite the size of the Great Lakes and the value of the fishery, the Great Lakes science program does not have the same funding authorizations as science centers on saltwater coasts. “Our Great Lakes and waterways are part of who we are and our way of life,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “From water quality issues to invasive species, there are so many challenges facing our lakes and fisheries, which is why funding for cutting-edge research is so important.” “The Great Lakes are an ecological treasure, not just for Michiganders, but for Americans across the country,” said Senator Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization Act will increase certainty for the Great Lakes by ending piecemeal funding and putting in place a pathway for steady, long-term federal support. Giving the USGS, Great Lakes Science Center the legislative authority that it deserves will assist research efforts and aid development of advanced data collection technologies, so that we can continue to protect the diverse Great Lakes ecosystem and the regional economies it supports.” “The Great Lakes fisheries are a key source of economic activity, and support countless jobs and a way of life here in Michigan,” said Dr. Benishek, member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “By ensuring a dedicated source of federal funding to support research activities, this bipartisan initiative will help combat issues facing the Great Lakes like invasive species and allow the sport and commercial fishing industry to remain viable and vibrant.” “Chicagoans understand the role the Great Lakes play as an economic driver for our region. In order to protect and improve this unique resource, we must support the necessary scientific advancements that help to develop new research technologies and enhance Great Lakes fishery assessments so we can better understand the health of the ecosystem,” said Congressman Quigley, member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes Science Center is already conducting vital research, but they are limited by piecemeal funding from Congress. That’s why I’m proud to introduce the Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization Act with Congressman Benishek to ensure the Great Lakes Science Center has the funding it needs to better manage the complex challenges of the Great Lakes ecosystem.” The legislation is supported by a broad coalition of environmental and conservation groups, including Great Lakes Fishery Commission, Council of Lake Committees, Council of Great Lakes Fisheries Agencies, Alliance for the Great Lakes, Shedd Aquarium, Trout Unlimited, and JMS Naval Architects. “We must protect and improve the Great Lakes fishery, and science is the foundation of that mission,” said Great Lakes Fishery Commission vice-chair David Ullrich, executive director of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative. “A healthy fishery means a healthy environment and economy. The more we know about what is going on with the fishery, the more equipped we are to protect it and manage it well.” “The Great Lakes are vital to the economy of all of the states bordering them, and they are an environmental treasure,” said Dale Tahtinen, Vice President for Governmental Relations, Michigan Technological University. “We must preserve them not only for today, but for future generations.” Since 1996, the Great Lakes Science Center has been funded through the U.S. Geological Survey’s base appropriations with no dedicated funding source of its own. The USGS, Great Lakes Science Center needs authorizing legislation and a reliable funding stream to conduct and modernize fishery research throughout the five Great Lakes to support wise fishery management decisions. This bill gives the USGS Director more leverage to devote money to the Great Lakes and authorizes $17.5M for fiscal years 2017-2026. Based in Ann Arbor, the USGS, Great Lakes Science Center maintains staff and field stations in five of the eight Great Lakes States, including Michigan, New York, Ohio, Indiana, and Wisconsin. It owns and operates five large fishery research vessels, and is the only agency that conducts lake-wide fisheries science assessments on each of the five Great lakes. The USGS, Great Lakes Science Center has made significant research contributions, including advancing a suite of projects to support restoration efforts of native prey fish populations throughout the Great Lakes basin; leading world-class research on the most notable invasive species in the history of the Great Lakes: the parasitic sea lamprey; and helping to implement one of the largest freshwater telemetry fish-movement-tracking networks in the world. These efforts help scientists better assess the status of native fish populations or target invasive species control with more accuracy. ###
02.19.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters and Congressman Kildee Announce Hard-Fought Victory to Continue Blight Removal Efforts Across Michigan Michigan Eligible for up to $323.49 Million to Revitalize Cities, Neighborhoods Friday, February 19, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI), today announced that the U.S. Department of Treasury will begin distributing new Hardest Hit Funds to Michigan in the coming months. Michigan will receive $74.49 million immediately from the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Hardest Hit Fund and is eligible to receive up to an additional $249 million this April to continue the revitalization of neighborhoods across the state. The Hardest Hit Fund gives resources to states to invest in blight removal efforts and help struggling homeowners. Late last year, Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee led a major effort to give the Treasury Department the flexibility to transfer $2 billion to the Hardest Hit Fund, which would have run out of funding this spring. Since 2010, 16 communities across Michigan- including Detroit, Adrian, Ecorse, Flint, Grand Rapids, Hamtramck, Highland Park, Inkster, Ironwood, Jackson, Lansing, Muskegon Heights, Pontiac, Port Huron, River Rouge, and Saginaw– have utilized $440.8 million from the fund to provide homeowner assistance, remove blight, and support other efforts to revitalize neighborhoods. “It was a hard-fought battle to secure this new funding which is a big win for Michigan cities and communities,” said Senator Stabenow. “Blight removal is making a real difference by making neighborhoods safe and spurring economic growth. Thousands of blighted properties have already been demolished and this funding will keep this momentum going.” “Blight removal is critical to the resurgence of cities across Michigan,” said Senator Peters. “I was pleased to work with Senator Stabenow and Congressman Kildee to secure these resources, which will build on efforts to improve safety and property values in our communities and attract new investments that will help these neighborhoods continue to recover and grow.” “Millions of dollars in additional federal funds will make a huge difference in removing blight across Michigan, including in Flint and Saginaw,” Congressman Kildee said. “Getting rid of blight will help to raise property values, decrease crime and unlock greater opportunity for all homeowners. Getting this money for Michigan has been one of my top priorities in Congress so that our cities and towns have the resources necessary to tear down the remnants of the past and give us a chance to restart.” The Treasury Department will be distributing the $2 billion Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee helped secure in two separate parts. The first $1 billion will automatically be allocated to 18 states and the District of Columbia based on population size, need and how much previous Hardest Hit Funds have been drawn down. Based on this criteria, Michigan will receive $74.49 million. The next $1 billion will be distributed to eligible states through a competitive application process. The Treasury Department will take into account whether states have a proven track record of efficiently using Hardest Hit Funds and the immediate need for additional funding. A state will not be able to apply for more than either $250 million or half of the money they have already received from the Fund. Because Michigan is a national model of how to successfully turn Hardest Hit Fund dollars into demolitions, the state is in a strong position to receive a significant amount of funds through this competitive process. Applications for all states will be due to the Treasury Department in March with funding announcements to be made in April.
02.18.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on Canadian Government Nuclear Waste Site Announcement Thursday, February 18, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the Canadian government’s announcement to delay a decision on whether an underground nuclear waste facility will be built off of the shores of Lake Huron. Senator Stabenow spoke with Canadian Environmental Minister Catherine McKenna earlier this month about how this storage facility could put Michigan’s billion-dollar fishing and boating industries at risk as well as our quality of life by permanently damaging the environment and water quality of the Great Lakes. This is the second time since November that the Canadian government has responded to Senator Stabenow’s call to delay making a decision on the site: “Canada is facing a critical decision that will impact generations in both of our countries. Given what is at stake, a closer examination of the serious environmental and public health risks of this site is imperative and will hopefully lead our Canadian neighbors to make the right decision to shelve plans for this site once and for all.”
02.18.2016	Senator Stabenow Applauds Secretary Burwell Announcement of $500,000 for Two Community Health Centers to Help Families in Flint Genesee Health System and Hamilton Community Health Network will receive $250,000 each to provide additional lead testing, treatment, outreach, and education for families Thursday, February 18, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today applauded the announcement by U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell that Genesee Health System and Hamilton Community Health Network, which are both Federally Qualified Health Centers, will each receive $250,000 to help meet the increased need for health services in Flint. Senator Stabenow serves as the Ranking Member of the Health Sub-Committee of the Senate Finance Committee. “I have been extremely pleased to work with Secretary Burwell in advance of her visit and appreciate her responding to our request for additional health care resources to help families in Flint affected by this terrible crisis. While the State must take the lead to meet its responsibility to the community, I will continue to do everything I can to make sure as much federal assistance as possible is available to help Flint families.“
02.18.2016	Senator Stabenow Highlights Legislation to Keep Michigan Students from Going #InTheRed Sen. Stabenow meets with college students to discuss the Reducing Educational Debt (RED) Act to help achieve debt-free college for students Thursday, February 18, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with college students online and at Western Michigan University, Michigan State University, Wayne State University, and the University of Michigan to discuss her #InTheRed campaign to raise awareness and take action to reduce the staggering burden of student loan debt for college graduates. Senator Stabenow is an author of the Reducing Educational Debt (RED) Act to allow student loan borrowers to refinance high-interest student loans, to create new federal and state partnerships to make community college free for eligible students, and to increase Pell Grant awards. “Too many people in Michigan are saddled with decades of debt just because they wanted a fair shot to go to college and get ahead,” said Senator Stabenow. “That‘s why I’m meeting with college students on college campuses and online this week, so we we can work together to put our country on a path to debt-free college for future generations. Making college affordable will improve the lives of millions of Americans and boost our economy by giving graduates the ability to spend their money on a home, a car, and the needs of their families.” “The student debt issue is undeniably crippling to our nation’s future,” said Thye Fischman, Vice President of the Western Student Association. “Innovative steps need to be taken to address this problem, and to insure a bright future for our students. I appreciate Senator Stabenow for coming to Western Michigan University, speaking with students and discussing the issues we are facing regarding student debt.” “We were very excited for the opportunity to have Senator Stabenow on Campus to address this important issue,” said Domonique Clemons, Student Body President, Associated Students of MSU. “MSU Students and students across the state of Michigan are graduating with more student loan debt than ever before. It is great to know that we have a champion like Senator Stabenow who will stand up and push to make college more affordable.” “If knowledge is power, then we are at a significant handicap in the U.S.,” said Chris Gregory, Wayne State University Student Senate. “Senator Stabenow understands this and I'd like to thank her for her efforts at helping us bridge this gap by making post-secondary education a more equitable and obtainable dream than it has been for many years. I know she won't stop until the current and prospective students in the State of Michigan no longer have to worry about whether or not they can afford to go to college.” “We are excited to welcome Senator Stabenow to campus for a forum on student loan debt,” said Cooper Charlton, University of Michigan Student Body President. “She has been instrumental in advocating for students at Michigan -- and we appreciate her efforts to engage students at the University.” The RED Act includes three provisions: Student Loan Refinancing- The RED Act will allow all eligible federal student loan borrowers to refinance their high-interest loans down to the rates offered to new federal borrowers in the 2013-2014 school year (3.86% for undergraduates, 5.4% for graduate students, 6.4% for parents). Two Years of Free Community College- The RED Act will make it possible to waive resident tuition fees for two years of community and technical college programs for eligible students. Every $1 invested by States to achieve this goal will be matched by $3 in federal funds. Increasing Pell Grants- The RED Act will tie future Pell Grant increases to inflation, increasing the maximum award based on the Consumer Price Index. In 10 years, the maximum Pell Grant Award to a Michigan student would be $1300 larger than under current law. 62 percent of students in Michigan graduate #InTheRed with student loan debt. A student who graduated from a 4-year Michigan college or university in 2014 owes on average almost $30,000 in loans, making Michigan 9th in the country on average student loan debt. Student loan debt in the United States is over $1.3 trillion and is the 2nd highest form of consumer debt.
02.12.2016	Senator Stabenow: Northern Michigan to Receive Nearly $16 Million for Land, Water Conservation Efforts Led by Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians, Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy, Leelanau Conservancy, the Conservation Resource Alliance; Support comes through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, which was created by Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill Friday, February 12, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that northern Michigan will receive nearly $8 million in public investment that will be matched by nearly $8 million in private sector investment to support land and water conservation. Support for this project – as well as five ongoing conservation projects in Michigan – comes through the 2014 Farm Bill’s Regional Conservation Partnership Program which was authored by Stabenow. “This investment is a win-win for northern Michigan,” Senator Stabenow said. “It helps farmers throughout the fruit belt preserve their land for future generations while improving wildlife habitats and water quality in Lake Michigan, local lakes and rivers. When we established this program in the Farm Bill, it was exactly these types of innovative partnerships – along with the ongoing partnerships to protect lakes and watersheds in Saginaw Bay, Lake Erie, St. Joseph and others – that we envisioned.” “The Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians are grateful for Senator Debbie Stabenow’s forward thinking advocacy for the Great Lakes,” Mary Pelcher, GTB Tribal Manager said. “Such foresight has led to this development of an innovative mechanism of support to bolster the efforts of a broad partnership that is actively removing obstacles infringing upon traditional lifeways, while also providing meaningful and lasting protection from a wholesale shift in land use.” "The vital connection between farm land protection and water quality cannot be overstated. We are thrilled to be a part of this innovative partnership and approach to conservation in the Farm Bill programs,” Glen Chown, executive director of the Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy said. “Senator Stabenow has shown great leadership and we are grateful that she truly understands the importance of our unique agricultural region and its link to the health of our Great Lakes. Through this award, our region is recognized nationally for its important role in both agricultural and water protection.” “It’s a new day for protecting water quality and working farms in the northern portion of the West Michigan fruit belt,” Tom Nelson, executive director of the Leelanau Conservancy said. “The Leelanau Conservancy is proud to have been given this opportunity to work closely with the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians, the Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy, the Conservation Resource Alliance and the USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service and other key partners to preserve the agricultural and water quality resources that are at the epicenter of Northwest Lower Michigan’s economy and quality of life. Simply put, our community owes a deep debt of gratitude to our Senator, Debbie Stabenow, for her dedication to conservation and her leadership in creating the Regional Conservation Partnership Program in the 2014 Farm Bill.” “At the Conservation Resource Alliance, we view the Regional Conservation Partnership Program as an innovative approach to connecting key Farm Bill programs with locally-designed conservation work,” Amy Beyer, director of the Conservation Resource Alliance said. “In the next five years, CRA will work side by side with our tribal and land conservancy partners to restore and protect the most threatened water, land, fishery and wildlife resources in northern Michigan. CRA expects to multiply every conservation dollar invested and help set the stage for a more streamlined, higher impact, conservation future. As Michiganders, we are proud that our very own Senator Stabenow helped create and launch this program and look forward to showing her the success of our work in the future.” The project – The Tribal Stream and Michigan Fruitbelt Collaborative – is led by the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians, Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy, Leelanau Conservancy, the Conservation Resource Alliance. The partnership will leverage public and private funding to work toward long-term restoration and protection of a Tribal fishery as well as address water quality concerns along Lake Michigan. Additionally, the partnership will work with local farmers and producers to protect important farm land in the region and enhance wildlife habitats throughout northwest Michigan. Since January 2015 when Stabenow first announced funding for the Regional Conservation Partnership Program nationally, more than $55 million has gone toward land and water conservation efforts in Michigan. More information on those past Regional Conservation Partnership Program projects can be found: HERE. ###
02.10.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on USDA Efforts to Help Children, Families in Flint Today’s Announcement Ensures More Families Have Access to Lead Testing, Expands Access to Healthy Foods for Flint Children Wednesday, February 10, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today released the following statement applauding the United States Department of Agriculture for taking additional steps to help low-income families in Flint. “I thank President Obama and Secretary Vilsack for responding to my request to help the people of Flint,” Stabenow said. “USDA is stepping up to help ensure children and families in Flint have access to critical health resources and nutritious foods during this crisis. I will continue to do everything in my power to help Flint during this emergency.” The announcement, made in Flint by Dr. Kathryn Wilson, Deputy Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services in Flint, would expand access for Flint children and families in three key ways: Gives flexibility to the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services to allow the estimated 3,800 WIC participants in Flint to use a portion of their WIC funds to pay for blood tests to detect possible lead exposure. Enables the Michigan Department of Education to ensure all children in Flint affected by this crisis have access to nutritious school meals through the Community Eligibility Program. Allows the Michigan Department of Education to expand eligibility for children in Flint to participate in the Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) meal program later this year. For more information on today’s announcement, as well as further actions taken by USDA to help families and children in Flint, CLICK HERE.
02.10.2016	Stabenow, Peters & Kildee Applaud Small Business Administration Disaster Declaration, Office Hours for Flint Businesses Wednesday, February 10, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) applauded the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) quick approval of an Economic Injury Disaster Loan declaration for Genesee County and the City of Flint to provide loans for eligible businesses that have been adversely affected by the Flint water crisis. Last month the members sent a letter urging Governor Snyder to request SBA assistance for struggling Flint businesses. SBA also announced today they will open a Flint Business Recovery Center that will hold office hours to provide additional assistance for Flint businesses from Wednesday, February 10th through Thursday, February 25th. The Business Recovery Center will operate out of the Oak Business Center at 2712 Saginaw Street and its hours are Monday-Friday from 8:00AM to 5:00PM. “There is no question that the Flint water crisis has hurt the bottom lines of our small businesses,” said Senator Stabenow. “The new SBA recovery center will give them a place to get the help they need to get through this crisis and prosper.” “Small businesses in Flint, especially restaurants, bars and others in the hospitality industry, have seen a drop off in customers and revenue due to contaminated water even as they have installed filtration systems to ensure their products are safe. The water crisis has exacerbated the economic hardships already facing the Flint community,” said Senator Peters. “I was pleased to work with Senator Stabenow and Congressman Kildee to help facilitate this assistance for Flint businesses so they can keep their doors open throughout this crisis.” “I applaud the swift action by the Obama Administration to support small businesses in Flint. I’ve met directly with Flint business owners who have shared with me their daily struggles to keep the doors open through this ongoing crisis. These federal loans will help put Flint on a road to recovery,” Congressman Kildee said. Under an Economic Injury Disaster Loan declaration, eligible businesses and non-profits are able to apply for up to $2 million in long term, low interest loans, depending on their circumstances. These loan proceeds can then be directed to working capital needs like making payroll or replacing inventories. Loan applications will be accepted through November 7, 2016.
02.10.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on the Passing of Former Wayne County Commissioner Kay Beard Wednesday, February 10, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the passing of Kay Beard, Wayne County’s longest-serving commissioner: “I am deeply saddened by the loss of Kay Beard who will always hold a special place in my heart as a beloved friend, an advocate and wonderful public servant. My thoughts and prayers go out to Kay’s family and friends and to the people whose lives she touched throughout her years of public service.”
02.09.2016	Senators Stabenow, Blunt Introduce Bill To Expand Funding for Community Mental Health Services New Legislation is Next Step to Funding Quality Mental Health Care Nationwide Tuesday, February 09, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) introduced a bill to significantly increase funding for the program they championed to expand community mental health and substance abuse services the country. The Expand Excellence in Mental Health Act will ensure that all 24 states awarded mental health planning grants through an initiative based on Sens. Stabenow and Blunt’s Excellence in Mental Health Act can be funded. While the original law limited funding to eight states, President Obama today announced additional funding in his budget to expand the program to 14 states. 24 states, including Michigan and Missouri, were selected in October to work with interested community mental health centers, Federally-Qualified Health Centers, VA clinics, and other mental health organizations to design a state program that meets the new quality standards for Certified Community Behavioral Health Centers. Under current law, eight of these 24 states will be selected to receive full funding for comprehensive community behavioral health services. The Expand Excellence in Mental Health Act will fund community mental health services for all 24 states, which is an important next step toward fully funding quality mental and behavioral health services nationwide. “Fully funding the Excellence in Mental Health Act is critical to making sure communities across the country have the resources they need to improve the lives of everyone living with mental illness and addictions” said Senator Stabenow. “I appreciate the President’s call for an expansion of community mental health and substance abuse services in the budget, and our bill is an opportunity to take that another step further. Each and every state that came forward with a plan to increase access to community behavioral health services should be allowed to move forward immediately.” “One in four adult Americans have a behavioral health issue that is both diagnosable and treatable. Unfortunately, those coping with a mental health issue and their families are too often confronted with a health care system that is unable to provide the access and quality of care they need,” said Senator Blunt. “The Excellence in Mental Health Act was a critical step toward improving and expanding access to behavioral health services. The legislation we are introducing today will build upon that law, and take us even further toward our goal of bringing behavioral health care in line with the way other illnesses are treated.” “This legislation is a critical step forward in making mental health and addiction care available to every American in need,” said Linda Rosenberg, President & CEO of the National Council for Behavioral Health. “The Expand Excellence in Mental Health Act will expand Americans' access to lifesaving mental health and addiction care, while supporting providers with the resources to not only immediately help each individual who walks into a clinic, but to also coordinate their behavioral and physical health needs. Every state that is working to transform its care delivery system deserves to be able to do so. The National Council pledges to continue working with Senators Debbie Stabenow and Roy Blunt to ensure that all 24 states have the opportunity to implement Excellence Act resources.” “Since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School that took the life of my sweet little son, Daniel, we at Sandy Hook Promise have advocated for the expansion of critical mental health services so that more people can have access to high quality, integrated mental health care, and those who are in crisis can get help before anyone gets hurt,” said Mark Barden, Advocacy Director at Sandy Hook Promise. “The Expand Excellence in Mental Health Act is an important step toward providing effective, quality mental health care nationwide. These grants will undoubtedly save lives and we are grateful to Senators Stabenow and Blunt for their leadership and tireless advocacy.” “The Expand Excellence in Mental Health Act will transform behavioral health care in this country, driving a fragmented and underfunded system to one with expanded access to evidence-based treatments, integrated healthcare, and accountability,” said Brent McGinty, President & CEO, Missouri Coalition for Community Behavioral Healthcare. “Missouri's behavioral health community applauds Senators Blunt and Stabenow for being true mental health champions.” “Our sheriff’s office is currently the gateway for the County’s mental health system, and caring for individuals with mental illness without the proper resources continues to be a growing challenge,” said Gene Wriggelsworth, Ingham County, Michigan Sheriff. “I have worked with Senator Stabenow to strengthen community mental health services in Ingham County for decades and appreciate her leadership to help law enforcement address this challenge and ensure patients across the nation get the care they need.” Senators Stabenow and Blunt first introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act in February 2013 to put community mental health centers on an equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and fully-funding community services and offering patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling and integrated services for mental illness. The bill was signed into law by President Obama in 2014 and is one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades. The Expand Excellence in Mental Health Act is supported by over 50 mental health organizations including: American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness, American Psychological Association, Clinical Social Work Association, Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance, Eating Disorders Coalition, Mental Health America, National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Council for Behavioral Health, Sandy Hook Promise, among many others.
02.03.2016	Stabenow, Peters and Bipartisan Group of Senators Urge Treasury to Protect Pensions for Thousands of Workers Wednesday, February 03, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, along with a bipartisan group of 23 Senators, sent a letter urging the U.S. Treasury Department to prevent the Board of Trustees of the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan (Central States Plan) from enacting drastic cuts to hard-earned employee pensions for thousands of retirees. The Treasury Department is required to review the proposed cuts by the Central States Plan and has authority to approve, deny or modify the plan. “We understand the need to ensure the financial well-being of the Central States plan, but it should not come at the expense of hard working families…We firmly believe these families deserve to receive the full amount of benefits they have worked for, planned for and depend upon,” wrote the Senators. “As Congress works to address this issue, we urge Treasury to use its authority to ensure the Central States Plan to cut benefits does not place an unfair financial burden on beneficiaries.” The Central States Plan has proposed benefits cuts as large as 50 to 70 percent. Many of these retirees already live on fixed incomes and could struggle to afford housing, medical care and other basic necessities if drastic cuts are approved. There are 24,000 Central State Plan members in Michigan and over 200,000 members across the country who would face an uncertain financial future if these benefits are cut. The letter was also signed by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Jon Tester (D-MT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Robert Casey (D-PA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Rob Portman (R-OH), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Al Franken (D-MN), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Maisie Hirono (D-HI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Joe Donnelly (D-IN). The full text of the letter is copied below or available here: Mr. Kenneth Feinberg Special Master for Implementation The Treasury Department MPRA Office (ATTN: Deva Kyle) 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W., Room 1224 Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Special Master Feinberg: We write today on behalf of thousands of retirees and families who could be negatively impacted by benefit cuts proposed by the Board of Trustees of the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan (Central States Plan). As you know, the Central States Plan has submitted an application to the Treasury Department to reduce benefits in accordance with the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014. We have serious concerns that these devastating cuts will bring severe harm to Central States retirees and set a dangerous precedent for other pension plans around the nation. We understand the need to ensure the financial well-being of the Central States plan and other pension funds, but it should not come at the expense of hard working families. Retirees have earned their pensions over a lifetime of work. We firmly believe these families deserve to receive the full amount of benefits they have worked for, planned for and depend upon. The proposed cuts by the Central States Plan will impact about 270,000 people nationally and include cuts as large as 50-70 percent. We are very concerned that a majority of these retirees are not financially prepared to withstand such steep cuts. Many of these individuals already live on fixed incomes and would have significant difficulty rejoining the workforce. Cuts of this magnitude would make it more difficult for them to afford quality housing, medical care and other essential needs. We cannot allow cuts such as these to become commonplace. As Congress works to address this issue, we urge Treasury to use its existing authority to protect the benefits these individuals have worked for and were promised. They deserve our best efforts to ensure that promise is kept to its fullest potential. Thank you for your consideration of our views. Please do not hesitate to contact our office if we can be of additional assistance. Sincerely,
02.03.2016	Senator Stabenow Applauds Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter’s Announcement that the Air Force will Delay Retirement of A-10 Warthog In speech previewing next week’s budget release, Sec. Carter says budget request defers the A-10’s retirement until 2022 Wednesday, February 03, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement following Secretary of Defense Ash Carter’s remarks yesterday that the Air Force will delay retiring the A-10 Thunderbolt II until 2022. Recently, hundreds of airmen from Selfridge Air National Guard Base and 12 A-10s returned from a six-month deployment to the Middle East after flying 1,600 sorties against ISIS as part of Operation Inherent Resolve. “Secretary Carter’s announcement delaying the A-10 Warthog is welcome news for our troops and the hundreds of airmen who fly and operate the A-10 at Selfridge. We know all too well in Michigan that the A-10 is fully engaged against ISIS and continues to protect troops under fire and save lives. I, along with members of the Michigan delegation, have repeatedly called on the Pentagon to keep the A-10 fleet flying, and am pleased the upcoming budget request will do just that.”
02.02.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce $2.3 Million for Stony Island Habitat Restoration Tuesday, February 02, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is awarding $2,330,898 to restore habitats on the islands in the lower part of the Detroit River. Senator Stabenow is Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force and Senator Peters is a member. “We know that what’s good for our lakes and waterways is great for our Michigan economy,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This investment will strengthen habitats around Stony Island so that fish and wildlife can flourish once again, making the Detroit River a destination for anglers and all who enjoy Michigan’s natural beauty.” “After years of water pollution and industrial waste being dumped into the Detroit River, I am pleased to see it becoming a dynamic riverfront with many fish and wildlife species returning to the area,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This grant will build upon that revitalization by continuing habitat restoration efforts that protect the sustainability of our waterways, while promoting recreation and tourism.” The award will go to Friends of the Detroit River to help complete more acreage of habitat restoration than any previous restoration effort for the Detroit River Area of Concern (AOC). The project seeks to restore 350 linear feet of habitat shoal and create 600 linear feet of habitat shoal islands in the Stony Island upper bay. The project will also protect an additional 50 acres of backwater habitat and use a number of design elements to provide habitats for a variety of fish and wildlife species.
01.28.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters and Congressman Kildee Announce Legislation to Help Flint Families Legislation provides emergency funding to replace and fix the City of Flint’s pipes, creates a Center to focus on immediate and long-term needs of children and adults exposed to lead Legislation also requires mandatory EPA action if a state refuses to warn the public about unsafe water, gives state flexibility to use funding to help forgive water infrastructure loans Thursday, January 28, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) today announced new legislation to help Flint families. First, the legislation provides up to $400 million in new federal emergency funding to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to help replace or fix the City of Flint’s water supply infrastructure. Second, it establishes and funds a $200 million Center of Excellence on Lead Exposure to focus on the immediate and long-term needs of children and adults exposed to lead. Third, it includes legislation announced by Senators Peters, Stabenow and Congressman Kildee requiring the EPA to warn the public of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so. Fourth, it gives the State of Michigan new flexibility to use funding to help forgive water infrastructure loans. The legislation will be introduced as an amendment to the Energy Policy and Modernization Act before the Senate. The State of Michigan has the primary responsibility to fix this crisis because they made a number of irresponsible decisions that caused it. Because the State chose to save $100 a day by not providing corrosion control for water pipes, this amendment requires the State of Michigan to match dollar-for-dollar the $400 million infrastructure funding. In his January 14 letter to President Obama requesting federal assistance, Governor Snyder estimated the cost of replacing the City of Flint’s water supply infrastructure at $767,419,500. “I have spoken to the President, Cabinet Secretaries, and my Democratic and Republican colleagues, and appreciate their willingness to work with us on ways to address this horrible crisis,” said Senator Stabenow. “This legislation puts the attention and focus where it needs to be- helping the children and families of Flint.” “The water crisis in Flint is an immense failure on the part of the State of Michigan to protect the health and safety of the City’s residents. While the State must accept full responsibility, the federal government can leverage investments the State needs to make, ” said Senator Peters. “I am committed to supporting the children and families of Flint, and the legislation we are introducing today will help put Flint on the road to recovery.” "Getting Flint families and children the resources they need to overcome this man-made crisis continues to be my top priority," Congressman Kildee said. "While the state government created this emergency, the federal government continues to step up and provide immediate and long-term solutions to help Flint. Governor Snyder must also step up and provide state resources equal to the gravity of this ongoing public health emergency." Amendment Summary: Infrastructure: Up to $400 million in new federal funding will be appropriated to an emergency infrastructure program under the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the EPA will be authorized to use this funding for direct grants to the State of Michigan and the City of Flint to replace or fix lead-contaminated water pipes, to hire new personnel, and to cover the cost of technical assistance provided by the EPA or private entities/individuals contracted by the EPA. The State of Michigan will be required to match dollar-for-dollar grants awarded by the EPA, up to $400 million in State funding. Center of Excellence on Lead Exposure: $200 million over 10 years ($20 million annually) in new federal funding will be appropriated to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to establish a Center of Excellence on Lead Exposure in Flint. The Center will help children and adults exposed to lead poisoning by connecting them to a variety of services available through health centers, schools, and other resources in the community. The Center will create an Advisory Committee to provide scientific and technical support for the Center and establish a Health Registry to monitor those in the community exposed to lead. The Center will conduct regular community meetings, create and disseminate materials, create a public website, provide assistance to help those exposed by lead by connecting children and adults with various health and education services. EPA Authority: Includes legislation introduced by Senators Peters, Stabenow and Congressman Kildee requiring the EPA to directly notify the public if there is a danger from lead in their water system, if the State refuses to do so. Currently, the responsibility for notification lies at the local and state level. Loan Forgiveness: The State of Michigan will have the ability to use funding from the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund (DWSRF) to forgive Flint’s outstanding debts on DWSRF loans incurred prior to FY2016, and lifts the prohibition on using more than 20% of FY2016 DWSRF allotment for principal forgiveness.
01.25.2016	Stabenow, Peters and Kildee Call For Expanded Head Start for Flint Kids Monday, January 25, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Gary Peters and Congressman Dan Kildee announced they are sending a letter to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) urging that Head Start be made available for every eligible child in the City of Flint. Last year, Congress approved an additional $135 million to expand the Early Head Start program, and the Members asked that the City of Flint be included in the expansion and that HHS provide technical assistance to community applicants. “Thousands of Flint residents have been exposed to the lead-contaminated water, including children, who are the most vulnerable to the irreversible effects of lead poisoning. The developmental and behavioral problems from lead poisoning will require years of special treatment and wrap-around care for these children,” wrote Stabenow, Peters, and Kildee. “Therefore, we would like to formally request Head Start be made available to every eligible child in the City of Flint as soon as practicable and for at least the duration of a 5 year grant period.” Children are particularly vulnerable to the negative effects of lead exposure, which has been associated with Attention Deficit Disorder and other cognitive, behavioral and developmental issues. A HHS report published last year noted that research shows children with or at high risk for developmental delays benefit most from interventions that begin at an early age. Full text of the letter is below: Dr. Blanca Enriquez Director - Office of Head Start U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 330 C Street, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Dr. Enriquez: There is a serious drinking water emergency situation in the City of Flint Michigan. Thousands of Flint residents have been exposed to the lead-contaminated water, including children, who are the most vulnerable to the irreversible effects of lead poisoning. The developmental and behavioral problems from lead poisoning will require years of special treatment and wrap-around care for these children. Therefore, we would like to formally request Head Start be made available to every eligible child in the City of Flint as soon as practicable and for at least the duration of a 5 year grant period. As you know, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states that there is no safe blood lead level in children and the agency recommends public health actions be taken when children have blood lead levels above 5 micrograms. Recent data collected from children in Flint has shown an increase in blood lead levels above 5 micrograms – indicating thousands of children in Flint were likely exposed to unsafe lead levels in Flint’s drinking water. Lead exposure in children can have significant and long-term negative health consequences and has been associated with Attention Deficit Disorder, and other health and developmental issues. We believe it is critical that we continue to do all we can to address the lasting health effects previous lead exposure may have on children of Flint. Access to Head Start can assist with mitigating the potential negative health impact of lead exposure in Flint children. According to a report published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services last year, “research demonstrates that children with developmental delays or at high risk for developmental delays benefit most from interventions that start at an early age.” The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 included an additional $135 million to expand the Early Head Start program. We request the expansion of programs include the City of Flint and ask that you provide technical assistance to community applicants. We would welcome the opportunity to discuss additional options for expanding access to the program. Our offices stand ready and willing to assist you in ensuring Head Start is made available to every child living in Flint. We appreciate your willingness to assist the City of Flint and look forward to working with you to assist in Flint’s recovery.
01.23.2016	Senator Stabenow Delivers Remarks at Annual VFW Mid-Winter Conference Banquet Saturday, January 23, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow delivered remarks during the VFW’s Mid-Winter Conference Banquet in Lansing. Student winners of VFW’s middle and high school essay and speech contests will also be announced at the banquet, which is part of an annual three day conference where students from across the state learn about government. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure they have access to the care and resources they need. She has led efforts to bring VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don’t have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. In recent years, new clinics have opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Grayling, and Mackinaw City.
01.20.2016	Senator Stabenow Meets with Mayor Weaver, Discusses Action State of Michigan Must Take to Help Families, Children in Flint Wednesday, January 20, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today met with Karen Weaver, Mayor of Flint, to discuss what steps the State of Michigan needs to take in both the short and long-term to help children in Flint, and how the federal government can support those efforts. Over the weekend, President Obama declared a State of Emergency in Michigan, which will free up federal resources to bring in bottled water, water filters, and water test kits to the City of Flint. Mayor Weaver met personally with President Obama yesterday to express her thanks and to highlight the need for continued collaboration between federal and state agencies. “I applaud Mayor Weaver’s efforts to help the families and children of Flint and will continue to push for additional resources to address this crisis,” said Senator Stabenow. “I told the Mayor that I will strongly support her efforts to hold the State of Michigan accountable in fixing this mess and will make sure that when the attention subsides, Flint is not forgotten.” “I know that Senator Stabenow cares deeply about the families and children in Flint,” said Mayor Weaver. “Since taking office Senator Stabenow has been there every step of the way and will continue to make sure our community has the help it needs.” Last week, Senator Stabenow was joined by Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) to urge Governor Snyder to commit state resources to fix the short and long-term damage from the Flint water crisis, including resources for the establishment of a Future Fund for children exposed to lead poisoning. The letter also asked for assurances that the State will repair the damaged water infrastructure, reimburse residents’ water bills, and reimburse the City for the cost of re-connecting to the Detroit water system.
01.20.2016	Stabenow, Peters & Weaver Discuss Flint Water Crisis With Department of HHS Stabenow, Peters & Weaver Met With HHS Assistant Secretary in Charge of Coordinating Federal Response Wednesday, January 20, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters and Flint Mayor Karen Weaver today met with Dr. Nicole Lurie, Assistant Secretary of Preparedness and Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), to discuss the ongoing water crisis in Flint, Michigan. The White House announced yesterday that Dr. Lurie has been designated to coordinate the federal response in Flint, and Dr. Lurie and her team are traveling to Michigan to work with state and local officials to coordinate the federal response. Peters, Stabenow and Weaver discussed what actions HHS is taking to address the effects of lead exposure in Flint’s water. “As the Ranking Member on both the Senate Agriculture & Nutrition Committee, and the Senate Finance Health Subcommittee, I am deeply committed to making sure the long term health and nutrition needs of Flint's children are not forgotten,” said Senator Stabenow. “I applaud the President's decision to give Health and Human Services the lead role in this crisis and intend to work closely with them and my colleagues in addressing this historic public health emergency.” “The City of Flint faces enormous challenges in recovering from this water crisis that happened through no fault of their own,” said Senator Peters. “The Flint community, especially the children who face irreversible damage from lead exposure, need comprehensive action to truly address the extensive nature of issues arising from months of contaminated water. I am pleased that HHS is coordinating a multi-layered federal response, but those efforts must be met with a substantial financial commitment from the State of Michigan, whose short-sighted decision-making led to this crisis.” “Senators Stabenow and Peters have been and continue to work with my Administration and community leaders in Flint to assess what federal resources are needed and what can be done to help,” said Mayor Weaver. “A whole of government approach is critical to addressing the far-reaching effects of this lead exposure, and the measures being taken by HHS are a good first step in helping Flint recover. However, we must see a full commitment from the State of Michigan in the immediate and long-term future in order for these resources to be most effective.” In the meeting, Dr. Lurie outlined a multi-layered approach that includes various elements of HHS, including resources from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) , Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) and the Administration for Children and Families, as well as close coordination with Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In the short-term, HHS is deploying two public health services officers to Flint and establishing operation centers in both Flint and Washington, DC. Last week, Stabenow and Peters joined Congressman Dan Kildee in urging Governor Rick Snyder to create a “Future Fund” to help deal with the long-term effects of lead exposure in Flint’s children, which include cognitive, behavioral and physical effects.
01.20.2016	Senator Stabenow Announces Five Year, Bipartisan Child Nutrition Reauthorization Stabenow Efforts Protect Crucial Nutrition Standards; Expand Farm to School, Summer Meal Program, WIC Wednesday, January 20, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), ranking member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today announced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize our nation’s child nutrition programs for five years. The bill, co-authored by Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS), continues to build on the crucial nutrition policies put in place under the Healthy, Hunger Free Kids Act of 2010. Following today’s bill release, the Senate Agriculture Committee also passed the bill out of Committee by voice vote. “Michigan’s children and families are depending on Congress to get this right,” Stabenow said. “Our country is battling an epidemic on two fronts: childhood obesity and childhood hunger. These challenges have the potential to wreak havoc on our economy and national security. If we want our next generation to be fit to succeed, then we must move forward with the strong nutrition policies put in place five years ago. “Once again, the Senate Agriculture Committee is coming together in a bipartisan way to get things done,” Stabenow said. “I want to thank Chairman Roberts for his efforts on this bill and urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this important legislation immediately.” The Improving Child Nutrition Integrity and Access Act of 2016 would make important investments in programs that support working families across Michigan as well as the State’s more than 1.5 million school children. Specifically, the legislation: • Protects crucial nutrition standards: With one in three children nationwide either overweight or obese, it’s critical that we keep moving forward with strong nutrition policies. The legislation would keep in place requirements that a half-cup of fruit or vegetable be provided with meals as well as makes additional financial resources available to schools to help transition menus to include more fresh ingredients. The legislation protects the science-based nutrition standards while providing flexibility in the area of whole gains and some additional time for schools to phase in sodium reductions in food. • Strengthens support for mothers and infants: The bill expands the WIC program to ensure that children up to the age of six who are currently not enrolled in full day Kindergarten can continue receiving nutritional supplement through the WIC program. Currently, children lose this added nutritional supplement at age five regardless of educational enrollment – which could also mean the loss of a possible meal. • Expands access to summer meals: Michigan has nearly 600,000 students who receive free or reduced meals during the school year, however, only about 13 percent receive that meal in the summer months. To help close this gap, the legislation helps States to expand current summer meals programs and provides new tools to target communities where children are not being reached. • Supports working families: To help support Michigan families with children enrolled in daycare or afterschool care programs, the legislation would provide an additional snack to children who stay at daycare for nine hours or more per day. • Grows Farm to School: Michigan is blessed with its diversity of agriculture. To help support our state’s farmers and producers, the legislation expands the national Farm to School program to help keep more locally grown produce in our school cafeterias. A copy of the legislation can be found: LEGISLATION LINK.
01.18.2016	Senator Stabenow Attends Lansing MLK Day Event Senator Stabenow Gave Opening Remarks at the Greater Lansing Area MLK Holiday Commission Event Monday, January 18, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended and delivered remarks at the 31st Annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Commission Luncheon in Lansing on January 18. The theme of this year’s event was “True Peace is not Merely the Absence of Tension, but the Presence of Justice.”
01.17.2016	Senator Stabenow Attends Northside Ministerial Alliance 30th Annual MLK Celebration Senator Stabenow Delivered Remarks at the Northside Ministerial Alliance 30th Annual MLK Celebration in Kalamazoo Sunday, January 17, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended and delivered remarks at the Northside Ministerial Alliance 30th Annual MLK Celebration on January 17. Reverend Dr. El. L. Branch, pastor of Third New Hope Baptist Church in Detroit, delivered the keynote address.
01.16.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement Following the Release of Amir Hekmati from Iran Saturday, January 16, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement applauding the release of Amir Hekmati from Iran: “After being held as a political prisoner in Iran for years, Amir Hekmati is finally coming home. I can only imagine the relief and joy Amir and his entire family must feel at this time. Amir is a hero and Michigan welcomes his safe return.” “I applaud President Obama and Secretary Kerry for their diplomatic efforts, which were key in freeing Amir and other Americans from Iran.”
01.16.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement on President Obama Signing Michigan Emergency Declaration Saturday, January 16, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today issued the following statement in response to President Obama signing the State of Michigan’s emergency declaration to help families and children in Flint: "I greatly appreciate the President's quick action in responding to the urgent needs of families in Flint. I will continue to push for federal resources to address this crisis, and for a commitment of resources from the state to meet the immediate needs of the community and to set aside a Future Fund to address the long-term needs of children and families."
01.15.2016	Senator Stabenow Attends Traverse City Area Chamber of Commerce Annual Celebration Friday, January 15, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended the Traverse City Area Chamber of Commerce Annual Celebration on January 15. Senator Stabenow spoke at the Chairman’s Reception about economic development in the region and highlighted the role of local industries, businesses, and community members. Last month, Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, secured funding for the Great Lakes in the federal end-of-the-year spending bill. The Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act provides significant funding for the Great Lakes, including $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and $1.25 billion in funding for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Additionally, it strengthens Army Corp authority to stop Asian carp.
01.15.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters and Congressman Kildee Urge Governor Snyder to Accept Responsibility, Commit Resources for Flint Water Crisis Friday, January 15, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) today sent a letter to Governor Snyder urging him to commit state resources to address the short term and long term damage from the Flint water crisis, including the establishment of a Future Fund for children exposed to lead poisoning. The letter also asks for assurances that the State will commit to repair the damaged water infrastructure, reimburse residents’ water bills, and reimburse the City for the cost of re-connecting to the Detroit water system. The letter reads in part: “While we are united in our efforts to secure federal resources that might be available to address this crisis, we ask for your assurance that the state accept responsibility for this disaster by committing the substantial financial resources needed to address Flint’s needs in both the short and long term. Whether through surplus funds, rainy day funds or other state resources, the state has a moral obligation to make Flint whole and fix the damage that has been done.” Full text of the letter: Dear Governor Snyder, Attached is our letter to the President supporting your request for federal assistance for Flint. While we are united in our efforts to secure federal resources that might be available to address this crisis, we ask for your assurance that the state accept responsibility for this disaster by committing the substantial financial resources needed to address Flint’s needs in both the short and long term. Whether through surplus funds, rainy day funds or other state resources, the state has a moral obligation to make Flint whole and fix the damage that has been done. In addition to addressing the immediate needs of the community, we ask that state resources be set aside in a “Future Fund” to address the long term damage, including the health and educational needs of the children exposed to high lead levels. The state should also develop a long-term strategic plan and devote the resources needed to fix the water infrastructure damage caused by the lack of corrosion control. This plan must ensure the safety of the water as the community transitions to the Karegnondi Water Authority pipeline which will connect Flint and the surrounding area with water from Lake Huron. Finally, Flint residents must be reimbursed by the state for their water bills during this crisis. Residents should not have to pay for contaminated water that was a result of drastic mistakes in decision-making and oversight. In addition, the City of Flint should be reimbursed for their contribution to the cost of reconnecting to the Detroit water system. We remain committed to doing everything we can at the federal level to support the families of Flint, and we urge you to use every effort to secure these necessary resources at the state level as well. Sincerely,
01.15.2016	Senators Stabenow, Peters and Congressman Kildee Urge President Obama to Provide Federal Assistance to Flint, Help State Meet its Responsibility to Families Friday, January 15, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) today sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to support the State of Michigan’s request for federal assistance in Flint. The letter reads in part: “Over the last several years, our Governor and state regulators have failed to meet their legal responsibilities to protect the public health and well-being of the people of Flint….In addition to the substantial financial commitments we expect the State of Michigan to provide, we are asking for your help in marshaling any available federal resources to combat the near- and long-term health, behavioral, and cognitive effects that are well documented for children and vulnerable populations exposed to dangerously high lead levels and other harmful pathogens.” Full text of the letter: Dear Mr. President: We write to support the request for federal assistance submitted by the State of Michigan late yesterday evening. Over the last several years, our Governor and state regulators have failed to meet their legal responsibilities to protect the public health and well-being of the people of Flint. While a series of unconscionable and short-sighted decisions by these officials created this crisis, the impacts on the people of Flint are no less severe than if a natural disaster was responsible for this situation. In addition to the substantial financial commitments we expect the State of Michigan to provide, we are asking for your help in marshaling any available federal resources to combat the near-and long-term health, behavioral, and cognitive effects that are well documented for children and vulnerable populations exposed to dangerously high lead levels and other harmful pathogens. Reviewing the authorities and resources the federal government can provide is a critical first step in what will be a long-term effort by the State of Michigan to address the needs of the people in Flint. Thank for your consideration of this most important request. We stand ready and willing to work with your Administration to explore any avenues of assistance that Congress might be able to provide as you consider the federal government’s response to the state’s emergency request.
01.15.2016	Senator Stabenow Kicks Off Inforum’s 14th Annual Auto Show Breakfast Friday, January 15, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, delivered remarks at Inforum’s 14th Annual Auto Show Breakfast on January 15. During her speech, Stabenow highlighted the importance of making sure women are represented in business and corporate leadership positions. The annual breakfast brings together hundreds of business leaders during Auto Show week and is Inforum’s first event of the year. This year’s keynote speaker was GM President Dan Ammann.Inforum is a leading professional organization focused on strategically connecting and accelerating careers for women throughout Michigan and the Midwest. Inforum has offices in Detroit and Grand Rapids with operations in Kalamazoo, Lansing, and Saginaw.
01.15.2016	Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Great Lakes Habitat Restoration Funding Will Help Fish, Wildlife Populations in Muskegon Lake Friday, January 15, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $497,507 in funding for the Great Lakes Commission to lead a regional partnership to restore habitats in the Great Lakes. The Commission will work with the West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission to restore fish passage and habitat in Muskegon Lake. This funding comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. “Our lakes are part of who we are and our way of life,” said Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This investment will help regional partners work together to protect our Great Lakes, waterways, and wildlife habitats.”“Protecting the health and sustainability of the Great Lakes is a top concern for Michiganders, who rely on the Great Lakes for their water supply, jobs and way of life," said Senator Peters, Member of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment will play a significant role in restoring fish passages and wildlife habitats, which strengthen our economy and preserve the state’s natural beauty."The Commission will work with the West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission to develop a study and design the Lower Muskegon River Restoration Project, which will reconnect the former floodplain wetlands with the Muskegon River and restore fish passage and habitat for native fish and wildlife. The Commission was also awarded $1,595,505 to restore the Buffalo River Area of Concern in New York.This support will help continue work already underway through the U.S. Great Lakes Areas of Concern program and the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. The Commission has received $30 million to date for Great Lakes restoration efforts.
01.14.2016	Senator Stabenow Statement Following Reports that the Air Force will Delay Retirement of A-10 Warthog Thursday, January 14, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement following reports that the Air Force will delay retiring the A-10 Thunderbolt II. Recently, hundreds of airmen from Selfridge Air National Guard Base and 12 A-10s returned from a six-month deployment to the Middle East after flying 1,600 sorties against ISIS as part of Operation Inherent Resolve.“I am very pleased with reports that the Air Force has delayed plans to retire the A-10 Warthog, which is fully engaged against ISIS and continues to protect troops under fire and save lives. I, along with members of the Michigan delegation, have repeatedly called on the Pentagon to keep the A-10 fleet flying, and recently spoke to the Air Force Secretary about its importance to our military and the Michigan Air National Guard. This report is welcome news for our troops and the hundreds of airmen who fly and operate the A-10 at Selfridge and just returned home after flying 1,600 sorties against ISIS overseas.”
02.05.2019	Senator Stabenow Statement on State of the Union Address Tuesday, February 05, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “I am deeply concerned about the direction of our country reflected in the President’s address this evening. We need to come together and find bipartisan solutions on issues important to Michigan like fixing our nation’s infrastructure, lowering the cost of health care, and keeping jobs in the United States.”
01.12.2016	Joined by Michigan State University Student, Senator Stabenow Announces Initiative To Make College More Affordable MSU Senior Tina Reyes Will Join Sen. Stabenow at State of the Union To Highlight Growing Problem of Student Debt Tuesday, January 12, 2016 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today initiated the #InTheRed campaign to raise awareness of the staggering burden of student loan debt for college graduates and the urgent need to address college affordability. The campaign is led by Democrats in the U.S. Senate, who will be rolling out a comprehensive plan to allow student loan borrowers to refinance high-interest student loans, to increase Pell Grant awards, and to create new federal and state partnerships to make community college free for eligible students. Senator Stabenow is joined by Tina Reyes, a Michigan State University senior from Flint, Michigan, to unveil the campaign. Ms. Reyes will be Senator Stabenow’s guest at tonight’s State of the Union to increase awareness of the growing problem of student loan debt in Michigan. “Too many people in Michigan are saddled with decades of debt just because they wanted a fair shot to go to college and get ahead,” said Senator Stabenow. “That is why I’m joining my colleagues in the Senate to put our country on a path to debt-free college for future generations of students. Making college affordable will improve the lives of millions of Americans and boost our economy by giving graduates the ability to spend their money on a home, a car, and the needs of their families.” “I am a first generation college student from Flint, Michigan and without federal and private student loans I would not be able to attend Michigan State University,” said Tina Reyes, Senior, Michigan State University. “Even working multiple jobs, I am concerned about how I will be able to pay my student loan bills which will arrive within a year after my graduation. I support the #InTheRed campaign because it will shed light on how much student loan debt students like me will be struggling to pay soon out of college.” As part of the #InTheRed campaign, Senate Democrats will be introducing proposals to allow all eligible federal student loan borrowers to refinance their high-interest loans down to the rates offered to new federal borrowers in the 2013-2014 school year; to index Pell Grant awards to inflation; and create new partnerships among the federal government, states, and Indian tribes to help them waive resident tuition in two years of community and technical college programs for eligible students. These provisions would be fully paid for by closing tax loopholes. 62 percent of students in Michigan graduate #InTheRed with student loan debt. A student who graduated from a 4-year Michigan college or university in 2014 owes on average almost $30,000 in loans, making Michigan 9th in the country on average student loan debt. Student loan debt in the United States is over $1.3 trillion and is the 2nd highest form of consumer debt.
01.11.2016	U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce Jay Williams Joined Senators Stabenow and Peters During North American International Auto Show Press Preview U.S. Assistant Secretary Williams, Senators Stabenow and Peters Toured Big Three Vehicle Exhibits Monday, January 11, 2016 U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Jay Williams joined U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters for the unveiling of this year’s new vehicles at the 2016 North American International Auto Show Press Preview on January 11. During the morning, they toured the Big Three vehicle exhibits with company executives and representatives. As Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, Williams leads the Economic Development Administration, which makes investments in Michigan communities to create new jobs and boost the economy.
01.06.2016	Senators Stabenow, Blunt Will Introduce Bill To Expand Funding for Community Mental Health Services New Legislation is Next Step to Funding Quality Mental Health Care Nationwide Wednesday, January 06, 2016 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) today announced they will be introducing a bill to significantly increase funding for the program they championed to expand community mental health and behavioral health services across the country. The bill that will be introduced by Senators Stabenow and Blunt will ensure that all 24 states awarded mental health planning grants through an initiative based on their Excellence in Mental Health Act can be funded. The original program limited funding to eight states. 24 states, including Michigan and Missouri, were selected in October to work with interested community mental health centers, Federally-Qualified Health Centers, VA clinics, and other mental health organizations to design a state program that meets the new quality standards for Certified Community Behavioral Health Centers. Under current law, eight of these 24 states will be selected to receive full funding for comprehensive community behavioral health services. The Stabenow-Blunt legislation will fund community mental health services for all 24 states, which is an important next step toward fully funding quality mental and behavioral health services nationwide. “This expansion is critical in making sure communities across the country have the resources they need to improve the lives of everyone living with mental illness,” said Senator Stabenow. “Each and every state that came forward with a plan to increase access to community mental health services should have the support they need.” “One in four adult Americans have a behavioral health issue that is both diagnosable and treatable,” said Senator Blunt. “Ensuring that they have access to the mental health services they need is vital to strengthening our communities and keeping Americans safe. The Excellence in Mental Act, which was signed into law in 2014, was an important step toward improving access to mental health care. The legislation Senator Stabenow and I are introducing later this month will build on that success by expanding the eight-state pilot program created by the Excellence Act to all 24 states that are currently applying for the demonstration.” Senators Stabenow and Blunt first introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act in February 2013 to put community mental health centers on an equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and fully-funding community services and offering patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling and integrated services for mental illness. The bill was signed into law by President Obama in 2014 and is one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades. The law is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Healthcare, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health System, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others.
12.22.2015	Senator Stabenow Nominates 53 Michigan Students to Military Academies Tuesday, December 22, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced that she has nominated 53 Michigan students for placement at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. “Michigan is fortunate to have so many exceptional students who want to serve our country through military service,” said Senator Stabenow. “Having demonstrated a strong commitment to excellence in and out of the classroom, I am confident they will represent Michigan and our country well.” Students seeking appointment to a service academy must first obtain the nomination of their U.S. Senator, their U.S. Representative, or the Vice President. Students nominated by Senator Stabenow’s office went through a competitive application process that included interviews by community leaders. Now that the students have been nominated, they must await acceptance for admission by the academy to which they have applied. The following students have been nominated by Senator Stabenow to a service academy (by region): Southeast Michigan: Nicolas Bennett-Carpenter – Bloomfield Hills, West Point Molly Brabant – St. Clair Shores, Air Force Academy Kayla Bruner – Lake Orion, Naval Academy Madison Burgin – Lake Orion, Air Force Academy Tyler Chema – Clarkston, Naval Academy Jay Cooke – Bloomfield Hills, Naval Academy Noah Dobos – Chelsea, Naval Academy Naveen Fujii – Ann Arbor, Naval Academy Zachary Hermosillo-Deboer – Belleville, Merchant Marine Academy Hannah Homsy – Grosse Pointe, West Point Aubrey Leggat – Grosse Pointe, Naval Academy John Libcke – West Bloomfield, Merchant Marine Academy Ian MacKinnon – Plymouth, West Point Robert Martinez – Flat Rock, Naval Academy Jamie Miller – Rochester Hills, Naval Academy Nathanial Misra – Rochester, Air Force Academy Wynter Nickless – Farmington Hills, West Point Jordan Niehoff – Chelsea, West Point James Niemeyer – Ray, West Point Ross Reason – Bloomfield Hills, West Point Miranda Reinhart – White Lake, Naval Academy Ryan Rocca – Troy, West Point Stephen Rumsey – Avoca, Air Force Academy James Tweedie – Oakland Twp., West Point Logan Vish – Howell, Merchant Marine Academy Maria Viviano – Clinton Twp., Air Force Academy Kara Wallace – Beverly Hills, Naval Academy Weslee Warren – Garden City, Naval Academy Alex Zhang – Troy, West Point West Michigan: Francine Barchett – Benton Harbor, West Point Grace Beverage – Portage, West Point Benjamin Coll – Kalamazoo, Naval Academy Tiana Colovos – Comstock Park, Air Force Academy Raul Cuellar – St. Joseph, Naval Academy Georgia Deems – Grand Rapids, West Point Charlotte Lee – Spring Lake, Naval Academy Andrew MacGregor – Grand Rapids, Naval Academy Scott Nieboer – Holland, West Point Gabriel Pedraza – Portage, Naval Academy Gavin Poulin – North Muskegon, West Point Kellen Rau – Grandville, Air Force Academy Joseph Rockwell – Marshall, West Point Mariah Rossi – Grand Rapids, West Point Upper Peninsula: Hannah Allen – Kingsford, Air Force Academy Northern Michigan: Lucas Catron – Ludington, West Point Cecelia Richardson – Traverse City, Naval Academy Nicole Roxbury – Traverse City, Naval Academy Mid-Michigan: Ethan Stutzman – Elsie, Air Force Academy Madison Swope – Jackson, Naval Academy Flint/Great Lakes Bay Region: Maxwell Coleman – Midland, West Point Mackenzie Marshall – Fenton, Naval Academy Trace Sheerin – Goodrich, Air Force Academy Benjamin Vollbach – Standish, West Point
12.18.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Senate Passage of Bipartisan Bill to Keep Plastic Beads Out of Great Lakes Legislation Will Go To President’s Desk for Signature Friday, December 18, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today applauded the U.S. Senate’s unanimous passage of the bipartisan Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015, which will protect the Great Lakes from pollution caused by small, plastic microbeads that are ingredients in certain soaps and personal care products. The legislation, which was sponsored by Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), passed the U.S. House of Representatives earlier this month. It will phase out the manufacturing of products with microbeads, which get through water treatment facilities and are harmful to fish and wildlife. This bill is similar to companion legislation that Senators Stabenow and Peters introduced earlier this year. “Today’s vote is great news for our Great Lakes, which are critical to our economy and Michigan way of life” said Senator Stabenow, co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “Microbeads pose a very real danger to our Great Lakes and threaten our fish and wildlife populations. This bipartisan bill is an important step in keeping our wildlife protected and our waters safe.” “This commonsense, bipartisan effort to phase out microbeads in consumer products like face wash and toothpaste is an important step toward protecting our Great Lakes,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “Synthetic plastic microbeads amplify the effects of pollution and threaten wildlife in the Great Lakes ecosystem. I’m pleased that my Senate colleagues are sending this vital measure to the President’s desk to ensure our Great Lakes continue to thrive.” Microbeads from products like face washes and toothpaste often end up floating in the Great Lakes, where they can build up as plastic pollution and are often mistaken for food by fish. A report by the State University of New York in Fredonia found anywhere from 1,500 to 1.1 million microbeads per square mile in the Great Lakes, the world’s largest source of freshwater.
12.18.2015	Senator Stabenow’s Bill to Protect Homeowners from Higher Taxes Passes Senate Legislation Protects Homeowners from Being Hit with Extra Tax Bill Friday, December 18, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, today applauded the inclusion of her legislation to protect struggling homeowners from being hit with an extra tax bill in the end-of-year spending bill. The bill, which will fund the government through 2016, includes Senator Stabenow’s Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act. The Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act makes sure homeowners aren’t required to pay additional taxes when they receive mortgage principal forgiveness on their homes or sell their homes in what are commonly called "short sales." Senator Stabenow led the effort to include her bill in the end-of-year deal, which will go to the President’s desk for his signature. “So many families across the country, including many in Michigan, are faced with having to pay for mortgages that now exceed the value of their home,” said Senator Stabenow. “The passage of this bipartisan agreement means that families who are willing to work with their lenders will not be forced to pay hundreds or even thousands of dollars in additional income tax when they sell their home.” The end-of-year deal extends through 2016 legislation originally authored by Senator Stabenow in 2007. Senator Stabenow led the effort last Congress to extend this provision in the Tax Increase Prevention Act, which extended the tax break through 2014. This bill will also add additional protections authored by Senator Stabenow to ensure that homeowners are eligible for relief as long as the agreement to reduce their mortgage debt is in writing before the date the provision expires. Declining home prices and rising foreclosure rates have forced many families to sell their homes for less than they paid for them, and sometimes for less than the outstanding debt. The IRS previously taxed any loan forgiveness provided to homeowners as "income," meaning families were paying thousands of dollars in income tax for phantom income that wasn't actual money the family had earned. While the housing market is recovering, short sales and foreclosures continue. More than one in six American homeowners currently have mortgages that are underwater.
12.17.2015	Led by Senators Stabenow, Peters and Congressman Kildee, Members of Michigan Delegation Announce New Opportunities to Revitalize Cities, Neighborhoods New Flexibility Makes Up to $2 Billion Available to Help Continue Blight Removal Efforts Thursday, December 17, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI), along with Congresswoman Candice Miller (R-MI), Congressman John Conyers (D-MI) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (D-MI) today announced new opportunities to help cities across Michigan and the country revitalize neighborhoods and keep communities safe. The end-of-year spending bill, which will fund the federal government through September 2016, gives the U.S. Department of Treasury the flexibility to transfer as much as $2 billion in additional funding to the Hardest Hit Fund. The Hardest Hit Fund provides resources to states for blight removal efforts and to help struggling homeowners. Michigan has received $498.6 million since the Fund was established in 2010. Senators Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee led the bipartisan effort to include this new opportunity for funding in the end-of-year deal.“We are seeing real progress in communities across our state from federal blight removal resources,” said Senator Stabenow. “This new flexibility is a huge win for Michigan cities and neighborhoods and will keep the momentum going to revitalize our communities and make sure our neighborhoods are safe places to raise a family.”“The Hardest Hit Fund has been a vital resource for cities across Michigan working to remove blight, improve safety and increase property values in their neighborhoods,” said Senator Peters. “This new option to transfer funding and shore up the Hardest Hit Fund will allow Michigan communities to continue these efforts and attract new private investments to help their communities grow."“Getting rid of abandoned homes in cities like Flint, Saginaw and Detroit helps to strengthen neighborhoods and decrease crime,” said Congressman Kildee. “We have already made great progress in removing blight from our communities and this new flexibility will help to unlock more economic opportunity for all Michiganders.” "I am elated that the Department of the Treasury will have the option to bolster the crucial Hardest Hit Fund, a program I have long supported and which has already disbursed over $300 million through the Step Forward Michigan program to keep families in their homes. Over 28,000 Michiganders have received assistance from the program, including nearly 9,000 residents of Wayne County, and countless neighborhoods have benefited from additional efforts to combat blight,” said Congressman John Conyers, Jr. “With a potential new funding boost, the Hardest Hit Fund could continue to provide an essential safety net for struggling homeowners and communities. I thank President Obama and Treasury Secretary Lew for their past work to support Detroit, and I urge them to maintain their commitment to Michigan’s economic recovery.” “I have strongly supported the use of federal funds to strike at the blight that has weakened too many neighborhoods and communities within our cities,“ said Congresswoman Lawrence. “As the congressional representative for Detroit, which has identified more than 84,000 properties beyond repair, and Pontiac, which has an estimated 400 locations awaiting demolition, one of my primary concerns has been the number of abandoned homes and businesses within my District. I have also seen, firsthand, how these federal funds can empower our communities and provide the resources needed to rebuild and prosper. As of October 28, 2015, U.S. Treasury has allowed the dedication of more than $300 million to Detroit for blight removal and awarded $3.7 million in federal blight removal funds to the City of Pontiac in 2013. I look forward to continued support from the Treasury for Detroit and Pontiac, and throughout our state.”Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow, Senator Peters and Congressman Kildee led the effort to stop a proposed $1.7 billion cut in the Hardest Hit Fund. Cities that have benefited from this fund include Detroit, Adrian, Ecorse, Flint, Grand Rapids, Hamtramck, Highland Park, Inkster, Ironwood, Jackson, Lansing, Muskegon Heights, Pontiac, Port Huron, River Rouge, and Saginaw.
12.16.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Facility for Rare Isotope Beam Funding in Government Spending Bill Funding Will Support Construction of Advanced Research Facility at Michigan State University Wednesday, December 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded the year-end government spending bill released today includes $100 million in federal funding to continue constructing the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) at Michigan State University. The appropriations bill, the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act funds the government through September 30, 2016, and Stabenow and Peters worked with their Senate colleagues to ensure this funding would be included in the final legislation. "MSU continues to make terrific progress in building this state-of-the-art facility, which is critical for Michigan and our entire country,” said Senator Stabenow. “This new funding will bring MSU one step closer to creating thousands of jobs in our state.” “The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams will generate millions of dollars in economic activity for the Lansing area, create thousands of jobs and play a central role in training the next generation of nuclear physics researchers,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Space, Science and Competitiveness Subcommittee. “I’m proud to have worked with my colleagues to secure funding for FRIB to ensure this world-class facility will be able to deliver new scientific breakthroughs and discoveries that will drive innovation in Michigan.” In November, Stabenow and Peters sent letters to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development requesting $100 million in funding to ensure construction of FRIB, which is running on schedule and on budget, continues through fiscal year 2016. Since 2009, FRIB has been allocated $218 million in federal funding to complete the project. "MSU officials are pleased with the appropriation, which supports the next phase of the project. MSU appreciates that FRIB remains a national priority and thanks the Michigan Congressional delegation for their leadership and unwavering support of the project," said Mark Burnham, MSU Vice President for Government Affairs. FRIB will house a high-powered superconducting linear accelerator that accelerates heavy ions and produces rare isotopes, which are short-lived atomic nuclei that cannot be found on Earth. The rare isotopes produced at FRIB will allow nuclear scientists and researchers to explore a range of potential applications in the fields such as energy, medicine and national security, including diagnosing and curing diseases, improving next generation nuclear reactors for energy and finding processes to destroy nuclear waste. FRIB will create as many as 400 jobs for scientists, engineers and staff, and bring together nearly 1,400 nuclear scientists from around the world to conduct research at the new facility. Construction of the $730 million facility is expected to be completed in 2022. Senator Stabenow has been a long-time advocate for FRIB, leading the effort to secure over $200 million in federal funding that allowed Michigan State to begin facility construction in March 2014. Earlier this year, Senator Peters toured FRIB and held a roundtable discussion with academic leaders and researchers from Michigan State University to gather input to help craft new legislation shaping federal science research and development priorities for the coming years.
12.16.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Extension of Perkins Student Loan Program Program Helps Students with Financial Need Pay for College Wednesday, December 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded Senate passage of the Federal Perkins Loan Extension Act of 2015, a bipartisan, two-year extension of the Perkins Loan Program, which provides low-interest loans to help students with exceptional financial need pay for their education. Peters and Stabenow previously sent a letter in October urging Senate leadership to pass an extension of the Perkins Loan Program after it expired on October 1st. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a one-year extension in September. “Every child in America, no matter what their financial situation, should know that if they work hard the opportunity to attend college will be available after high school,” said Senator Stabenow. “The passage of today’s bill means that thousands of students in Michigan will continue to have the resources and support they need to have a fair shot to get ahead in life.” “Thousands of students in Michigan rely on Perkins Loans to help finance their education, and this extension will ensure they can stay on track to pursue their degrees,” said Senator Peters. “Higher education can be a pathway to the middle class and strong future for students in Michigan and across the country, and I’m proud to support this essential program that helps our colleges and universities give the neediest students the assistance they need to get ahead.” The Federal Perkins Loan Extension Act of 2015 will extend the Perkins Loan Program for two years through September 30, 2017, allowing current and new undergraduate borrowers to use Perkins Loans to pay for the 2017-2018 academic year. The lapse in the program put current students, including up to 150,000 current freshman, at risk of losing access to much-needed financial aid for the current and next academic years. Since 1958, the Perkins Loan Program has provided more than $28 billion low-interest loans through nearly 26 million awards to students with financial need across the country. The program disburses financial aid to students through campus-based revolving funds that use federal dollars to leverage investments from colleges and universities to sustain the loan fund. In Michigan during the 2013-2014 school year, more than 26,000 students received nearly $41 million in Perkins Loans.
12.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $1 Billion to Protect Great Lakes Investments Will Help Combat Asian Carp, Improve Water Quality in Great Lakes Wednesday, December 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced new funding and support that will bolster ongoing efforts to protect the Great Lakes. The end-of-year spending bill, which will fund the federal government through September 2016, includes $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The Initiative is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. Because of Sens. Stabenow and Peters’ efforts, this bill not only funds the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, it also formally establishes the program into law. The end-of-year spending bill also directs the Army Corps of Engineers to expedite ongoing work and establish emergency procedures to prevent Asian carp from entering Lake Michigan. Finally, this legislation includes over $1 billion in funding for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Both Senators Stabenow and Peters worked to include these investments and authorities in the bill. “Just like generations before us, it is our responsibility to protect and preserve the Great Lakes,” said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “From Asian carp to water contamination, these kind of robust, bipartisan commitments from Congress will help communities in Michigan combat the numerous threats that face our Great Lakes. Michigan’s economy relies on the Great Lakes’ multi-billion dollar fishing, boating, and tourism industries, and this critical support will help protect those jobs and our Michigan way of life.” “The Great Lakes are a vital economic engine for Michigan, driving our state’s tourism, agricultural and commercial shipping industries, and supporting more than half a million jobs,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. “These resources will help continue to protect the Great Lakes from serious threats ranging from industrial pollution to invasive species, and ensure the Great Lakes are healthy for the communities that rely on them for years to come.” Under the end-of-year spending bill, Congress will provide $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative over the next year. Also included is $1.25 billion for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, which supports Great Lakes navigation projects. Senators Stabenow and Peters also played a critical role in giving the Army Corps of Engineers the authority to take immediate action to stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, a crucial chokepoint in the Chicago waterway system.
12.09.2015	Cyber Squadron Awarded to Michigan Air National Guard in Battle Creek Following Bipartisan, Bicameral Letter Signed by Entire Michigan Delegation, 110th Attack Wing Earns One of Four New Units Wednesday, December 09, 2015 Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) celebrated the announcement that the Michigan Air National Guard’s 110thAttack Wing, stationed in Battle Creek, will be host of a new Cyber Operation Squadron distinction. “Given the dependence of our country’s military, infrastructure, and economy on computers and the Internet, this new cyber squadron puts Michigan at the forefront in protecting our nation,” said Stabenow. “Earlier this year, Congressman Upton and I led our colleagues on a tour of Michigan’s military installations – including Battle Creek Air National Guard Base – to see firsthand the important role Michigan plays in our nation’s defense. Today’s announcement is a credit to the men and women in Battle Creek’s 110th Attack Wing and underscores our state’s leadership and expertise in cyber security.” “We’re so proud of the effort put forth by our men and women in the Michigan Air National Guard to get the prestigious assignment,” said Upton. “Cyber security threats are one of the greatest national security threats we face today and our future depends on reliable cyberspace for everything from infrastructure, commerce, communications, and government. The 110th Attack Wing has demonstrated incredible skill and the team at Battle Creek, and the Michigan Air National Guard, is to be commended for the work they have done in proving their capability in the defense of our nation’s cyber security.” “We must remain vigilant against the evolving national security threat posed by cyber attacks on our military assets, civilian infrastructure and financial sector,” said Peters. “I was proud to join with the Michigan Congressional Delegation to advocate for a Cyber Squadron in Battle Creek, and today’s announcement is a true recognition of the skill and accomplishments of the 110th Attack Wing and its critical role in bolstering American military cyber defense capabilities.” A Cyber Operations Squadron is a 70-person dual-use squadron which conducts a multitude of cyber domain operations in support of the overall Air Force Cyber Mission Force. The 110th Attack Wing is already home to a pilot program that has trained technicians and has much of the infrastructure required to take on this new mission. In April, Upton and Stabenow led a bipartisan, bicameral letter, urging top officials at the U.S. Department of Defense to select the 110th Attack Wing in Battle Creek to host a cyber squadron. The letter was signed by the entire Michigan Congressional Delegation: Senator Peters, Rep. John Conyers, Rep. Sander Levin, Rep. Candice Miller, Rep. Tim Walberg, Rep. Justin Amash, Rep. Dan Benishek, Rep. Bill Huizenga, Rep. Dan Kildee, Rep. Mike Bishop, Rep. Debbie Dingell, Rep. Brenda Lawrence, Rep. John Moolenaar, and Rep. David Trott.
12.06.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Ted Wahby Sunday, December 06, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement on the passing of Macomb County Treasurer Ted Wahby:“I am deeply saddened by the passing of my dear friend, Ted Wahby. For decades, he served Macomb families with distinction and was a friend to so many who had the privilege to know him. My heartfelt condolences go out to his loving wife, Yvonne, and his entire family. He will be greatly missed.”
12.03.2015	Stabenow, Peters, Miller Urge Obama Administration to Support Funding for Blue Water Bridge Thursday, December 03, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) today wrote to Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and Director of the Office of Management and Budget Shaun Donovan urging the Administration to make the expansion of a customs plaza for the Blue Water Bridge in Port Huron a high priority for funding in the Fiscal Year 2017 budget. Despite land being cleared and property demolished in Port Huron for the expansion, funding for the customs plaza construction has yet to be allocated. “The Blue Water Bridge is a vital component of economic expansion for the communities of Port Huron, and St. Clair County; the state of Michigan, and the nation as a whole,” wrote Peters, Stabenow and Miller. “As you consider your Fiscal Year 2017 budget plans, we request that you make the expansion of the Blue Water Bridge Customs Plaza in Port Huron, Michigan, a high priority by supporting the strongest possible funding of the Facility Construction and Sustainment account at U.S. Customs and Border Protection.” The Blue Water Bridge is the United States’ third busiest land crossing in value of shipments. In 2011, President Obama and Former Prime Minister Stephen Harper outlined the Blue Water Bridge as a top priority in a plan to commit significant investments in physical infrastructure at key crossings to improve congestion and speed at U.S.-Canadian border crossings. The full text of the letter is available below, or click here: The Honorable Jeh Johnson Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: As you consider your Fiscal Year 2017 budget plans, we request that you make the expansion of the Blue Water Bridge Customs Plaza in Port Huron, Michigan, a high priority by supporting the strongest possible funding of the Facility Construction and Sustainment account at U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The Blue Water Bridge is the United States third busiest land crossing in terms of value of shipments. Focused investment in modern infrastructure and technology at our busiest land ports of entry, such as the Blue Water Bridge, is essential to our economic well-being and security. In 2011, Prime Minister Stephen Harper and President Barack Obama declared in Beyond the Border: A Shared Vision for Perimeter Security and Economic Competitiveness their commitment to significant investments in physical infrastructure at key crossings to relieve congestion and speed the movement of traffic across the border. The Blue Water Bridge was identified as a top priority within that plan. The Blue Water Bridge is a vital component of economic expansion for the communities of Port Huron, and St. Clair County; the state of Michigan, and the nation as a whole. Locally, delay of the expansion of the Blue Water Bridge Customs Plaza continues to create hardship by impacting the tax bases in Saint Clair County and Port Huron. More than 100 properties were demolished to prepare the land for expansion, yet it continues to sit idle. These communities are negatively impacted by the loss of potential revenue as the land required for the plaza expansion sits vacant. Port Huron’s bond rating has been negatively impacted due to a lack of revenue from the plaza. New revenue gained from construction and operation of the customs plaza would help offset the years of lost property tax revenue. Nationally, it is important to the economic security and well-being of the United States to complete the planned expansion of the Blue Water Bridge Customs Plaza. Once fully staffed and operational, this improved border crossing will have a significant economic impact for Michigan and states across the country. This plaza will greatly expedite travel for both commercial and non-commercial traffic, as the temporary booths that were installed were not intended to be a permanent solution, and have not mitigated the traffic problems to the extent they should have. We thank you for considering our request. Sincerely, ###
12.01.2015	Senate Passes Stabenow, Peters Resolution Recognizing Rosa Parks’ Courage, Contributions to the Civil Rights Movement On 60th Anniversary, Senators Honor Parks’ Heroic Refusal to Give Up Bus Seat Tuesday, December 01, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded the Senate’s passage last night of a bipartisan resolution to honor the 60th anniversary of when civil rights pioneer Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat to a white passenger on a Montgomery, Ala., bus. Parks' December 1, 1955 arrest sparked the Montgomery Bus Boycott, which was a turning point in the fight for civil rights. She and her husband, Raymond, relocated to Michigan in 1957 where she lived until her death in 2005. “60 years ago today, Rosa Parks changed our nation's history by courageously sitting down in order to stand up for human dignity,” said Senator Stabenow. “This resolution recognizes the critical role Parks played in the civil rights movement and highlights her heroism and bravery at a time of extreme unrest and discrimination in America.” “Rosa Parks is an example of how courage and determination can change the course of history,” Senator Peters said. “As we commemorate the 60th anniversary of Rosa Parks’ historic Montgomery bus ride that helped promote the fight for equality and justice during the Civil Rights Movement, we honor her legacy that inspires all Americans to stand up for justice and freedom.” Parks was born in Alabama and is known as the “first lady of civil rights.” Her arrest led to 42,000 African Americans boycotting the Montgomery buses until the bus segregation law was changed over a year later. Senators Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Mark Warner (D-VA), Al Franken (D-MN), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Harry Reid (D-NV) and Ben Sasse (R-NE) cosponsored this resolution.
11.20.2015	Stabenow, Peters Urge Funding for Great Lakes Heavy Icebreaker Friday, November 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Homeland Security calling for robust funding in the fiscal year 2016 appropriations legislation for the U.S. Coast Guard to design and build a new heavy icebreaker for the Great Lakes region. Heavy ice cover seen in recent winters has seriously impaired commercial shipping and economic activity in the Great Lakes. Last winter, cargo shipping decreased by 3.2 million tons, costing $355 million in lost revenue and nearly 2,000 jobs. "Heavy ice cover disrupts shipping and commerce on the Great Lakes, resulting in a severe loss of economic activity, revenue and jobs that depresses both the regional and national economy," wrote the Senators in the letter. "It is essential that Congress provides the men and women of the Coast Guard with the resources they need to keep open shipping lanes in the Great Lakes and to conduct search and rescue missions to keep ships and their crews safe during winter's cruelest months." The U.S. Coast Guard currently operates nine icebreaking-capable cutters on the Great Lakes, some of which date back to the 1970s. With only one heavy icebreaker in the Great Lakes fleet, the USCG MACKINAW, the Coast Guard has struggled to combat near record-breaking ice cover on the Great Lakes in recent winters. The letter was also signed by Senators Tammy Baldwin (WI), Amy Klobuchar (MN), Al Franken (MN), Bob Casey (PA), Joe Donnelly (IN) and Sherrod Brown (OH). Senator Stabenow is Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, which is a bipartisan working group that advocates for the protection of our Great Lakes. Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow called for Congress to support a new Great Lakes icebreaker. As a member of the Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard, Peters is focused on ensuring the Coast Guard has the resources it needs to maintain shipping lanes and conduct its law enforcement, port security, safety duties, and other vital services. He also called for the inclusion of a heavy icebreaker in the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015. The full text of the letter is available below, or click here: The Honorable John HoevenChairmanSenate Committee on Appropriations,Subcommittee on Homeland Security135 Dirksen Senate Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Jeanne Shaheen Ranking MemberSenate Committee on Appropriations,Subcommittee on Homeland Security125 Hart Senate Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairman Hoeven and Ranking Member Shaheen:As your Committee develops appropriations legislation for fiscal year 2016 (FY 2016), we urge you to provide the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) with robust funding for the design and construction of a new heavy icebreaker for the Great Lakes region. The USCG currently operates an aging fleet on the Great Lakes that includes only nine icebreaking-capable cutters, some of which date back to the 1970s. In 2006 the USCG added a heavy icebreaker called the USCG MACKINAW, but despite its addition, the USCG continues to struggle to combat the near record-breaking levels of ice coverage that have plagued the region in recent winters. Heavy ice cover disrupts shipping and commerce on the Great Lakes, resulting in a severe loss of economic activity, revenue and jobs that depresses both the regional and national economy. During the 2013/2014 winter, U.S. flag cargo movements on the Great Lakes dropped by nearly 7 million tons, causing at least two steelmakers to reduce production, several power plants to nearly exhaust their supply of coal, and a total estimated cost of nearly 4,000 jobs and $700 million in lost business revenue. This past winter resulted in an estimated decrease in cargo of 3.2 million tons, costing the economy $355 million in lost revenue and nearly 2,000 jobs. During this Congress, the importance of Great Lakes icebreaking has received bipartisan and bicameral recognition, including by your Committee, which, in its report to accompany the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for FY 2016, expresses concern, "that the Coast Guard does not possess adequate capacity to meet its statutorily required mission on the Great Lakes, with negative consequences to the regional and national economy as well as to the safety of local communities[1]." We share your concern and appreciate the report's requirement for an updated mission analysis. Furthermore, on May 18, 2015, the House unanimously passed by voice vote H.R. 1987, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015, which authorizes funding in FY 2016 and FY 2017 for the design and construction of a new USCG icebreaker for the Great Lakes. As the leaders of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure work toward a final bill, we support the retention of the House-passed authorizing language. It is essential that Congress provides the men and women of the Coast Guard with the resources they need to keep open shipping lanes in the Great Lakes and to conduct search and rescue missions to keep ships and their crews safe during winter's cruelest months. We look forward to working with you on this important matter.
11.19.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Initiative to Expand Quality Health Care in West Michigan Thursday, November 19, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Spectrum Health System to help connect people in rural areas with quality health care. The $254,884 grant will benefit five counties in West Michigan. The funding, which comes from the USDA's Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program, was authorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Families in West Michigan often don't have access to the health care services they need in rural communities," said Senator Stabenow. "With telehealth, patients are able to get important checkups and medical care even though the doctor is hundreds of miles away, thanks to state-of-the-art equipment and technology. Today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to specialists no matter what their zip code is." The support will be used to help connect five rural clinics - located in Mason, Kent, Newaygo, Montcalm and Osceola Counties - to Spectrum Health's Butterworth Medical Campus in Grand Rapids. Connecting clinics and hospitals through telemedicine addresses physician and specialist shortages in the region while reducing the cost of travel and lost wages for patients. Today's announcement is part of a $23.5 million investment in 75 projects across the country. Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program.
11.19.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Initiative to Expand Quality Health Care in Mid-Michigan Thursday, November 19, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for MidMichigan Health to help connect people in rural areas with quality health care. This $494,900 grant will benefit eight counties in Mid-Michigan. The funding, which comes from the USDA's Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program, was authorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Families in Mid-Michigan often don't have access to the health care services they need in rural communities," said Senator Stabenow. "With telehealth, patients are able to get important checkups and medical care even though the doctor is hundreds of miles away, thanks to state-of-the-art equipment and technology. Today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to specialists no matter what their zip code is." The support will help MidMichigan Health purchase telemedicine equipment that will be used in Clare, Gladwin, Gratiot, Isabella, Midland, Ogemaw, Roscommon and Huron Counties. Connecting clinics and hospitals through telemedicine helps make sure patients get the care they need while reducing the cost of travel and lost wages. Today's announcement is part of a $23.5 million investment in 75 projects across the country. Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program.
11.19.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Initiative to Expand Quality Health Care in Northern Michigan, Upper Peninsula Thursday, November 19, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Indigo Health to help connect people in rural areas with quality health care. This $226,803 grant will benefit 13 counties in Northern Michigan and the Upper Peninsula. The funding, which comes from the USDA's Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program, was authorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Families in Northern Michigan and the Upper Peninsula often don't have access to the health care services they need in rural communities," said Senator Stabenow. "With telehealth, patients are able to get important checkups and medical care even though the doctor is hundreds of miles away, thanks to state-of-the-art equipment and technology. Today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to specialists no matter what their zip code is." The support will be used to deploy two interactive telemedicine carts at clinics in Mason, Crawford, Charlevoix, Chippewa, Dickinson, Grand Traverse, Kalkaska, Luce, Manistee, Mackinac, Ostego, Schoolcraft and Wexford Counties. This funding will help rural hospitals provide constant care between patients and primary physicians through iNDIGO's Hospitalist Telemedicine Network, which allows for diagnoses and consultations at any time of the day. Today's announcement is part of a $23.5 million investment in 75 projects across the country. Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program.
11.18.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Investment to Connect Muskegon County Students with Local Foods Wednesday, November 18, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's announcement that four Muskegon County school districts will receive support to develop a plan to bring locally grown food to Muskegon County school cafeterias. This $43,500 investment will benefit the Muskegon, Muskegon Heights, Whitehall and Montague school districts and comes from USDA's Farm to School Program, which helps schools source healthy foods like fruits, vegetables, meat and dairy. Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill significantly expands support for Michigan farmers by creating new opportunities to sell locally grown and organic products. "Farm to school programs give needed support to Michigan farmers while educating and encouraging students to eat healthier," said Senator Stabenow. "Whether it's teachers, students, parents or farmers, everybody wins when Michigan-grown food makes it to cafeterias." USDA's Farm to School Grants help schools respond to the demand for healthy food, which plays a critical role in helping children develop healthy habits which can benefit them for their entire lives. The Farm to School Program also educates students about how food grows through school garden programs and farm visits. Additionally, the program provides much needed access to new markets for locally grown and organic foods for producers and food businesses.
11.18.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Investment to Connect Elkton-Pigeon-Bay Port Students with Local Foods Wednesday, November 18, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's announcement that the Elkton-Pigeon-Bay Port school district will receive support to help bring locally grown food to school cafeterias. This $43,688 investment comes from USDA's Farm to School Program, which helps schools source healthy foods like fruits, vegetables, meat and dairy. Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill significantly expands support for Michigan farmers by creating new opportunities to sell locally grown and organic products. "Farm to school programs give needed support to Michigan farmers while educating and encouraging students to eat healthier," said Senator Stabenow. "Whether it's teachers, students, parents or farmers, everybody wins when Michigan-grown food makes it to cafeterias." This funding will help the Elkton-Pigeon-Bay Port school district form a collaborative team with the local producers and community partners to offer students fresh and healthy foods. USDA's Farm to School Grants help schools respond to the demand for healthy food, which plays a critical role in helping children develop healthy habits which can benefit them for their entire lives. The Farm to School Program also educates students about how food grows through school garden programs and farm visits. Additionally, the program provides much needed access to new markets for locally grown and organic foods for producers and food businesses.
11.17.2015	At the Urging of Senators Stabenow and Peters, Obama Administration Approves $1.35 Million to Help Upgrade Soo Locks Tuesday, November 17, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded the Obama Administration for approving $1.35 million to review critical upgrades to the aging locks at Sault Ste. Marie. In June, the Senators called on Office of Management and Budget Director Sean Donovan to approve the Army Corps of Engineers' request to help replace the Davis and Sabin Locks with a lock of similar size to the Poe Lock. Currently, 70 percent of cargo vessels, including all of the large lake freighters, are forced to use the Poe Lock because they are too large to use others. The Davis and Sabin Locks, both of which are nearly 100 years old, are no longer in use. "The Soo Locks are the gateway for Great Lakes freighters carrying staple foods like wheat and iron ore our manufacturers and military depend on," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This support will allow the Army Corps to start the process of making upgrades and building a replacement lock. A failure of the aging locks causing even a temporary outage could cost our economy millions of dollars-a cost we cannot afford. I will continue work with the Administration to make sure this this vital gateway remains open." "The Soo Locks are the busiest in the United States, transporting nearly 80 million tons of goods and raw materials every year that supply Michigan's agricultural, mining and manufacturing industries," said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This funding will help the Army Corps of Engineers take steps toward making critical upgrades to the locks so we can continue to safely and efficiently transport cargo throughout the Great Lakes. I'm proud to work with Senator Stabenow and the Administration to help ensure the Soo Locks can continue driving commerce in our state and our region." The Soo Locks are critically important to Michigan's economy and our national security. Iron ore, a commodity vital to our nation's defense and manufacturing industry, is only able to travel from mine to mill via ship in the Great Lakes through the Soo Locks. In March, Senators Stabenow and Peters urged the Army Corps Assistant Secretary Jo-Ellen Darcy to request support for this funding.
11.13.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Paris Attacks Friday, November 13, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow tonight issued the following statement after the attacks in Paris: "Tonight's terrorist attacks on innocent citizens in Paris are horrific and outrageous. I join Americans everywhere in sending our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. While this situation is ongoing, the United States stands ready to offer any help to bring those responsible to justice."
11.13.2015	
11.12.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Support For Mid-Michigan Farm, Cooperative Thursday, November 12, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the announcement of support for Swallowtail Farm and the Michigan Fiber Industry Coalition Cooperative in Mason. Swallowtail Farm will receive $50,215 and the Michigan Fiber Industry Coalition Cooperative will get $15,000 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Value-Added Producer Grant program, which helps farmers and growers develop marketing strategies for agricultural commodities. This grant program was reauthorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill and is used to develop new agricultural products or create additional markets for existing ones."Michigan agriculture supports one out of every four jobs in the state," said Senator Stabenow. "With these types of new investments, we are helping Michigan farmers get more value from their products. That type of support can help increase sales for local farmers and boost our small town economies."Swallowtail Farm, which is a family-owned u-pick raspberry and free range egg farm, will use the funding to increase production and expand sales of fruit, syrups and jams. Michigan Fiber Industry Coalition Cooperative, which helps Michigan producers process and market fibers like wool, will use their funding to increase production and expand the market for yarn made within the U.S. Today's announcement is part of a $34 million investment from USDA's Office of Rural Development for 258 businesses across the country.Agricultural products like fruits and vegetables - also known as "specialty crops" - play a major role in Michigan agriculture. With the exception of California, Michigan leads the nation in crop diversity, growing and producing more than 200 unique commodities. Senator Stabenow's Farm Bill strengthens the value-added producer program and programs for specialty crop farmers, supports programs to stop pest and disease threats, and helps family farmers sell more goods locally.
11.12.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Support to Expand Agriculture in Northern Michigan Thursday, November 12, 2015 "Michigan agriculture supports one out of every four jobs in the state," said Senator Stabenow. "With these types of new investments, we are helping Michigan farmers get more value from their products. That type of support can help increase sales for local farmers and boost our small town economies." Agricultural products like fruits, vegetables - also known as "specialty crops" - play a major role in Michigan agriculture. With the exception of California, Michigan leads the nation in crop diversity, growing and producing more than 200 unique commodities. Senator Stabenow's Farm Bill strengthens the value-added producer program and programs for specialty crop farmers, invests in the research and promotion of specialty crops, supports programs to stop pest and disease threats, and helps family farmers sell more goods locally. Today's announcement is part of a $34 million investment from USDA's Office of Rural Development for 258 businesses across the country. Below are the Northern Michigan awardees: Brengman Brothers LLC. in Traverse City will receive $250,000 to expand the market by opening a second tasting room in Grand Rapids. Campbell Milarch Vines, LLC. in Copemish will receive a $19,300 planning grant to develop a business and marketing plan and study the potential benefit of producing Michigan wine from vinifera grapevines. Indian Summer Cooperative, Inc. in Ludington will receive $250,000 to increase production of applesauce cups and expand their market. Leelanau Fruit Company in Suttons Bay will receive a $5,015 planning grant to study the benefits of expanding the local maraschino cherries market. Gallagher's Vineyard and Winery Corp in Cedar will receive $250,000 to turn 15 acres of grapes into wine and open a tasting room.
11.12.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Support For RMG Maple Products, Inc. to Expand Business Thursday, November 12, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the announcement that RMG Maple Products, Inc. in Rudyard will receive $11,500 to study the potential market for USDA-certified organic maple syrup. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Value-Added Producer Grant program, which helps farmers and growers develop marketing strategies for agricultural commodities. This grant program was reauthorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill and is used to develop new agricultural products or create additional markets for existing ones."Michigan agriculture supports one out of every four jobs in the state," said Senator Stabenow. "With these types of new investments, we are helping Michigan farmers get more value from their products. That type of support can help increase sales for local farmers and boost our small town economies."Agricultural products like fruits, vegetables, and maple syrup - also known as "specialty crops" - play a major role in Michigan agriculture. With the exception of California, Michigan leads the nation in crop diversity, growing and producing more than 200 unique commodities. Senator Stabenow's Farm Bill strengthens the value-added producer program and programs for specialty crop farmers, invests in the research and promotion of specialty crops, supports programs to stop pest and disease threats, and helps family farmers sell more goods locally.Today's announcement is part of a $34 million investment from USDA's Office of Rural Development for 258 businesses across the country.
11.10.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on EPA Announcement to Audit Michigan’s Drinking Water Program Tuesday, November 10, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's decision to audit the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality's drinking water program:"It is clear that the State of Michigan made multiple mistakes and misjudgments, which have seriously harmed the health of the people of Flint. The EPA is taking critical steps today to get to the bottom of this outrageous situation. Everything must be done to make sure families and communities in Flint have safe drinking water."
11.07.2015	Senator Stabenow Serves as Grand Marshal at Detroit Veterans Day Parade, Speaks at Vets Fest Ceremony Saturday, November 07, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow honored Michigan's veterans and served as Grand Marshal of the 10th annual Detroit Veterans Day Parade on November 7. After the parade ended at Hart Plaza, Senator Stabenow delivered the keynote address at Vets Fest, which was held in celebration of the parade's 10th anniversary.For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure veterans and active services members have access to the care and resources they need. Earlier this year, she announced nearly a million dollars for the Michigan State Housing Development Authority and the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center in Detroit to help end homelessness for veterans.
11.06.2015	Senator Stabenow Delivers Remarks at 12th Annual Michigan Student Political Issues Convention Friday, November 06, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with Michigan students and delivered remarks at the 12th Annual Michigan Student Political Issues Convention on November 6. This annual convention brought together college students from across Michigan to discuss the most important issues they see facing our country. This annual civic engagement conference was organized by the League of Women Voters Dearborn/Dearborn Heights, Political Science Faculty at Oakland Community College, University of Michigan-Dearborn and the Political Science Faculty at Henry Ford Community College to encourage students to play a role in the political process.
11.05.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters, Congressman Kildee Call for Newly Elected Canadian Prime Minister to Stop Storage of Nuclear Waste on Great Lakes Thursday, November 05, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) today urged newly elected Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to take action to stop nuclear waste from being buried less than a mile from Lake Huron. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee urged the new Canadian government to not approve permits necessary to construct a proposed nuclear waste site in Kincardine, Ontario. The previous Canadian administration said a decision on whether or not to move forward with the construction of a repository would be made by December 2. Given the proximity of the proposed nuclear waste site to the Great Lakes, an accident that releases radioactive material could devastate the Great Lakes' $7 billion fishing industry, harm Michigan's economy, and severely damage environmentally sensitive areas. More than 40 million people in Canada and the United States rely on the Great Lakes for their drinking water. Senator Stabenow is the Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, Senator Peters is a member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force and Congressman Kildee is a member of the House Great Lakes Task Force.The letter reads in part: "The Great Lakes are our most precious natural resource -- providing drinking water to 40 million people on both sides of the border and billions of dollars to our regional and national economies. Given the critical importance of these shared waters to our countries, and the potentially catastrophic damages to the Lakes from a nuclear accident, we urge your administration not to approve this repository and consider alternative locations outside the Great Lakes Basin."Earlier this year, Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee introduced the Stop Nuclear Waste by Our Lakes Act to require the State Department to invoke the Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909 and mandate that the International Joint Commission (IJC) study the risks to the Great Lakes from the proposed Canadian nuclear waste site. The legislation would also require the State Department to undertake negotiations with the Government of Canada to wait for the study results before approving any waste site located on the Great Lakes.This letter was also signed by Representatives Dan Benishek (R-MI), Mike Bishop (R-MI), John Conyers (D-MI), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Sander Levin (D-MI), Candice Miller (R-MI), John Moolenaar (R-MI), and David Trott (R-MI).Full text of the letter can be found below:Dear Prime Minister Trudeau:Please accept our congratulations on being elected the 23rd Prime Minister of Canada. We are eager to work collaboratively with your administration to advance our many shared interests and mutually reconcile issues where our countries may differ.We write to you today about a matter of great concern to the citizens of our respective states: the risks to the Great Lakes of constructing a deep geological repository for storing 7,000,000 cubic feet of radioactive waste on the shores of Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. As you are aware, the previous Administration postponed to December 2 the deadline for rendering the final decision on whether to permit the planning for constructing the facility.The Great Lakes are our most precious natural resource -- providing drinking water to 40 million people on both sides of the border and billions of dollars to our regional and national economies. Given the critical importance of these shared waters to our countries, and the potentially catastrophic damages to the Lakes from a nuclear accident, we urge your administration not to approve this repository and consider alternative locations outside the Great Lakes Basin. At the very least, we ask that the final decision be postponed until we have an opportunity to discuss this matter with you in person.Thank you for your consideration of our requests. We look forward to working with you and your Administration.
11.04.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds USDA Investment in Michigan State University Agricultural Research Wednesday, November 04, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's announcement of $173,151 for Michigan State University pest management research. This funding, which comes from USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, will help researchers develop an alternative to spraying insecticides on fruit."Michigan State is a leader when it comes to agricultural research," said Senator Stabenow. "Better pest management means cheaper and more efficient crop production for farmers and safer food for our families."The award will help Michigan State University develop a device to attract and kill pests like codling moths and stink bugs without spraying insecticides, which will reduce the cost of spraying pesticides and minimize residue on fruit. This support is part of nearly $4.2 million announced today for projects across the country. Press Contact U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's announcement of $173,151 for Michigan State University pest management research. This funding, which comes from USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, will help researchers develop an alternative to spraying insecticides on fruit."Michigan State is a leader when it comes to agricultural research," said Senat
10.30.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Call for Extension of Perkins Student Loan Program Friday, October 30, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters joined a bipartisan group of Senators in sending a letter urging Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Minority Leader Harry Reid to take up and pass a one-year, no-cost extension of the Perkins Loan Program, which expired on October 1st. The Perkins Loan Program provides low-interest loans to help students with exceptional financial need pay for their education. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a one-year extension on September 28th, but the Senate has yet to take action to extend the program. "On October 1, the authorization of the Perkins Loan Program, the nation's oldest federal student loan program and a critical lifeline for many low-income students, expired... As a result, thousands of current and future students face uncertainty and hundreds of institutions are struggling to find another way to help their neediest students afford their education," the senators wrote in the letter. "Immediately taking up the House-passed extension bill is a simple solution that can provide clarity in the near term to students and the colleges and universities that serve them without any cost to the federal government." Since 1958, the Perkins Loan Program has provided more than $28 billion low-interest loans through nearly 26 million awards to students with financial need across the country. The program disburses financial aid to students through campus-based revolving funds that use federal dollars to leverage investments from colleges and universities to sustain the loan fund. In Michigan during the 2013-2014 school year, more than 26,000 students received nearly $41 million in Perkins Loans. If the Perkins Loan Program is not extended, current students seeking loans for the upcoming winter and spring semesters may lose access to much-needed financial assistance, including up to 150,000 current freshmen in the next academic year. Additionally, future incoming students will be unable to use the program to finance their education, and students with existing Perkins loans will lose their eligibility if they change academic programs or schools. The full text of the letter is available below Dear Leader McConnell and Leader Reid: On October 1, the authorization of the Perkins Loan Program, the nation's oldest federal student loan program and a critical lifeline for many low-income students, expired. While our colleagues in the House of Representatives unanimously approved a one-year, no-cost extension of the program through the Higher Education Extension Act (H.R. 3594), the Senate has yet to advance that measure. As a result, thousands of current and future students face uncertainty and hundreds of institutions are struggling to find another way to help their neediest students afford their education. We write to express our strong support for the Perkins Loan Program and to request that the Senate take up and pass the Higher Education Extension Act as soon as possible. The Perkins Loan Program has existed with broad bipartisan support since 1958 and has provided more than $28 billion in loans through almost 26 million awards to students in all 50 states. In the last academic year alone, the program lent $1.1 billion to more than half a million students with financial need across more than 1,500 institutions of higher education. The Perkins Loan Program disburses financial aid to students through a campus-based revolving fund that leverages federal dollars with significant institutional investment. Colleges and universities have continued to participate in this self-sustaining program despite a lapse in federal appropriations for nearly a decade. The required institutional capital contribution gives colleges and universities "skin in the game," and the loan payments from graduates are used to make new loans to other students. As a campus-based program, Perkins also enables these institutions to provide targeted support to the students they know have the greatest financial need. That is why it is broadly supported by higher education groups, including the Association of American Universities, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, the American Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, the National Association of Financial Aid Administrators, the Coalition of Higher Education Assistance Organizations, the American Council on Education and many others, as well as dozens of individual colleges and universities across the country. There are many students who will be disadvantaged by the Senate's inaction and the program's expiration. For example, students who have previously received Perkins loans will lose their eligibility if they change institutions or academic programs. In addition, if the program is not reauthorized soon, students seeking Perkins loans for the upcoming winter and spring semesters in 2016 may be ineligible. All future students will be ineligible for this vital program, which helps fill the gaps between what is available through the Direct Loan Program and a family's ability to pay. On average, this is $2,000 in financial aid. As many as 150,000 current freshmen will lose access to these loans in the next academic year. Many Senators have proposals aimed at making our various federal student aid programs work better for students, parents, and institutions. We look forward to discussing and debating ways to improve these important federal supports for higher education during this congress. In the meantime, we should immediately take up and pass the House-passed extension to provide certainty to students and ensure that this important source of student financial assistance is not interrupted. Immediately taking up the House-passed extension bill is a simple solution that can provide clarity in the near term to students and the colleges and universities that serve them without any cost to the federal government. The Congressional Budget Office concluded that this one-year extension would incur no new costs to the federal government because it includes limitations on the length of student participation in the program. The House has already acted unanimously to extend the Perkins Loan Program for one year. We urge you to take up and pass the Higher Education Extension Act without delay.
10.29.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds $3 Million USDA Investment in Michigan Biofuels Funding Will Help Increase Consumer Fuel Options, Reduce Fuel Costs and Dependence on Foreign Oil Thursday, October 29, 2015 WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that Michigan has been chosen as a partner in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Biofuels Infrastructure Program, which supports projects that increase the production and delivery of renewable fuels like ethanol. The state will receive $3 million to add approximately 130 ethanol and gasoline/ethanol blender pumps at Michigan fueling stations. This grant will be matched by state and local support, more than doubling the funding available to install these pumps. “Investing in renewable energy helps create jobs and grow rural economies,” said Senator Stabenow. “This support will help Michigan families by reducing costs at the pump and our dependence on foreign oil.” The biofuels industry creates thousands of jobs in rural America. This funding will increase the availability of ethanol in Michigan, helping boost ethanol use by more than 4 percent. Today’s announcement comes as part of $100 million in grants for 21 states across the country. Senator Stabenow is a longtime supporter of investing in renewable fuel infrastructure and helped the state, ethanol producers, and Corn Marketing Program of Michigan in their efforts to secure this funding.
10.28.2015	Ranking Member Stabenow Applauds State of Michigan-U.S. Forest Service Agreement to Help Sustain National Forests Wednesday, October 28, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, ranking member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the Michigan Department of Natural Resources and the U.S. Forest Service for taking a major step forward toward restoring three National forests in Michigan. "Michigan's forests are treasures that must be well managed so future generations can enjoy their beauty," Stabenow said. "This agreement between the Michigan Department of Nature Resources and the Forest Service will not only help these lands thrive, they will also ensure they continue to be economic drivers for rural communities throughout the State. We worked hard to expand these types of collaborative projects in the 2014 Farm Bill and today's announcement is just another step forward in that process." The agreement, called Good Neighbor Authority (GNA), was a major component of Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. The agreement will help bolster conservation efforts in Hiawatha, Huron-Manistee, and Ottawa National Forest. Good Neighbor Authority allows state foresters to perform forest restoration work on federal lands that, because of Forest Service budget constraints, would likely otherwise go untreated. In May, Stabenow led a letter with eight U.S. Senators urging Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to take additional federal efforts to protect and manage our national forests. Today's announcement reflects the efforts of those Senators as well as represents a key step in the agency's strategy to implement Farm Bill forestry reforms.
10.27.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on the Passing of Arab-American Leader Michael Berry Tuesday, October 27, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the passing of Michael Berry, a Dearborn attorney and former chairman of the Wayne County Road Commission. "I am very saddened to hear about the passing of Michael Berry, who was an impressive leader and a true pioneer in Southeast Michigan's Arab American community. Being among the founding Muslim families in Dearborn, his commitment to equality helped secure economic opportunities for Arab Americans, break down cultural barriers and bring the community together."
10.26.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces New Federal Funding to Help Expand Detroit’s Urban Agriculture Efforts Monday, October 26, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow visited Frederick Douglass Academy for Young Men to highlight National Farm to School month and announce new funding to bolster local food production. U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, ranking member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today visited Frederick Douglass Academy for Young Men to highlight National Farm to School month and announce new federal funding headed to Detroit to help bolster local food production. "Detroit continues to be a national leader in efforts to expand urban agriculture," Stabenow said. "From students at Fredrick Douglass growing fresh produce for their school meals to job training by groups like Greening of Detroit, the City is showcasing the great work being done across Michigan. Urban agriculture is an exciting way to bring a new generation into farming which is one important reason I made this a priority in the Farm Bill." At Fredrick Douglass, Stabenow announced $4,000 in new funding from the United States Department of Agriculture that will lead to expanded opportunities for students. Currently, students are growing produce that can be used in the school cafeteria but are limited by the short growing seasons. This funding will help expand those opportunities to ensure students can grow fresh food year round. Additionally, Fredrick Douglass students use their school garden as a living classroom to learn how to market and sell produce at local farmers markets, developing skills that will prepare them for new jobs after graduation. Stabenow also highlighted an additional $100,000 in new federal funding for Greening of Detroit who will partner with the Detroit Black Community Food Security Network to help train young adults in Wayne County interested in farming and entering the growing farm-to-fork restaurant scene in Detroit. As Chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Stabenow authored the 2014 Farm Bill which makes historic investments in local food initiatives including support for organics, farmers markets, urban and school gardens, local food hubs, and new support for fruit and vegetable growers.
10.24.2015	Senator Stabenow Celebrates 100 Years with Polish Century Club of Detroit Saturday, October 24, 2015 As part of Polish Heritage Month, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended the Century Club of Detroit's 100-year celebration on October 24. The Polish Century Club of Detroit works to honor traditions by hosting events to educate the community about Polish history and culture. Polish Heritage Month, which is celebrated in October, highlights the contributions people of Polish descent have made to America.
10.23.2015	Senator Stabenow Delivers Remarks at Grand Opening of BorgWarner Powertrain Technical Center Friday, October 23, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with workers and delivered remarks at the grand opening of BorgWarner's Powertrain Technical Center, which is expected to create 200 new jobs. U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow met with workers and delivered remarks at the grand opening of BorgWarner's Powertrain Technical Center on October 23. This $11 million investment in the region is expected to create 200 new jobs.BorgWarner, which is an international company headquartered in Michigan, develops advanced vehicle technologies to improve fuel economy, emissions and vehicle performance. - See more at:
10.22.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Call for Immediate Action to Stop Spread of Asian Carp Thursday, October 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today urged the Obama Administration to take action to stop Asian Carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes basin. In a letter to Shaun Donovan, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Senators Stabenow and Peters called for funding to develop and implement measures that directly prevent Asian Carp from entering Michigan's waterways. Last week, the Fish and Wildlife Service found that small Asian Carp may be able to pass through the electric barrier that is designed to prevent invasive species from entering Lake Michigan. It was also discovered that young silver carp have moved 52-miles closer to Lake Michigan in just one year. Senator Stabenow is the Co-chair of and Senator Peters is a member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force.The letter reads in part: "...There is no question that challenges exist to developing and implementing measures that prevent the transfer of AIS [aquatic invasive species] at Brandon Road. However, two recent findings illustrate the urgency of the situation and need to advance emergency and interim measures while the USACE completes the Brandon Road feasibility study. A Fish and Wildlife Service study released October 15 found that small fish - including Asian Carp - can become entrained between barges and transported through a lock and dam and across the existing electric dispersal barriers. In addition, a study last month discovered juvenile silver carp 52-miles closer to Lake Michigan than in 2014."Earlier this year, Senators Stabenow and Peters introduced the Defending Our Great Lakes Act, which focuses on the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, a crucial chokepoint in the Chicago waterway system about 25 miles south of the city. The bill requires the Army Corps to equip the lock and dam with technologies and countermeasures that would stop the spread of Asian Carp. It also requires the Army Corps to use the Brandon Road complex as a testing site for other technologies that can be incorporated at other locations to stop Asian carp.Full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Director Donovan: We write to urge the Administration to dedicate sufficient resources and direction in Fiscal Year 2017 to protecting the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins from Asian Carp and other invasive species. To that end, we hope the Administration will agree to the following requests that are critical to this objective: • Budget $3 million specifically to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USACE) Feasibility Study at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, and make every effort to complete the study and Chief's Report in the three year time frame that is required in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. • Review emergency protocols and identify and deploy countermeasures in the interim periods leading up to completion of the USACE Chief's Report. • Request robust funding for surveillance, research, and other initiatives by the Fish and Wildlife Service, Environmental Protection Agency, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Geological Survey, and U.S. Coast Guard that are critical to near- and long-term efforts to fight Asian Carp and other aquatic invasive species in the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins. On April 6, 2015, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) initiated the GLMRIS Brandon Road Study. While we welcomed this announcement, the 46-month projected timeframe for completing the study was disappointing and inconsistent with the 3x3x3 rule enacted in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. There is no question that challenges exist to developing and implementing measures that prevent the transfer of AIS at Brandon Road. However, two recent findings illustrate the urgency of the situation and need to advance emergency and interim measures while the USACE completes the Brandon Road feasibility study. A Fish and Wildlife Service study released October 15 found that small fish - including Asian Carp - can become entrained between barges and transported through a lock and dam and across the existing electric dispersal barriers. In addition, a study last month discovered juvenile silver carp 52-miles closer to Lake Michigan than in 2014. Recently, the Chicago Area Waterway System Advisory Committee and the Great Lakes Commission and Great Lakes Fishery Commission sent you two letters in support of action at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam. Together, these letters illustrate a consensus among diverse stakeholders that Brandon Road can serve as a critical choke point for preventing further penetration of Asian Carp and other aquatic invasive species (AIS) throughout the Great Lakes and Mississippi River systems. Moreover, the research and implementation of control technologies at Brandon Road will provide a valuable template for evaluating long-term measures to prevent the two-way transfer of AIS. Ultimately, it is these long-term efforts that will provide the greatest protection to the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins. Your administration has provided unprecedented leadership in advancing initiatives to restore the Great Lakes and Mississippi River. We believe that requesting sufficient funding in FY2017 for the USACE' feasibility study and advancing emergency and interim countermeasures that prevent further spread of Asian Carp and other AIS is consistent with your commitment to protecting the health and sustainability of the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins.
10.19.2015	Senators Stabenow, Blunt Announce Finalists for First-of-its-kind Mental Health Initiative Monday, October 19, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) today announced that 24 states will compete in a nation-wide program to improve and expand access to mental health care. This first-of-its-kind initiative is based on Senator Stabenow and Senator Blunt's Excellence in Mental Health Act, which is one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades. Selected by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration,these 24 states are one step closer to being chosen to be part of a new eight-state demonstration program to expand quality mental health care. This new program will offer patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling, and integrated treatments for mental illness. The Senators' bipartisan Excellence in Mental Health Act was signed into law by President Obama last year. "Mental illness touches every family in some way," Senator Stabenow said. "It is critically important that communities in Michigan and across the country have the resources they need to help everyone living with mental illness. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Blunt to make sure illnesses above the neck are treated the same as illnesses below the neck." "I am pleased that Missouri is one of twenty four states that have received a planning grant in order to help people suffering from mental illness," said Senator Roy Blunt. "I am pleased that there is so much enthusiasm for our Excellence in Mental Health Act demonstrations. It's time we treat mental health like all other health." "The Excellence in Mental Health Act is the biggest federal investment in behavioral health care in over 40 years," said Linda Rosenberg, president and CEO, National Council for Behavioral Health. "The awarding of state planning grants gets us a step closer to bringing high quality treatment to people who need help and the families that love them. The Senate and House Excellence in Mental Health Act champions deserve our congratulations and our thanks. Their efforts will change lives for the better." The 24 states selected will work with interested community mental health centers, Federally-Qualified Health Centers, VA clinics, and other mental health organizations to design a state program that meets the new quality standards for Certified Community Behavioral Health Centers. The eight states chosen to participate in the demonstration program will increase funding for community mental health services and improve the quality of those services. This is the first step toward funding quality behavioral health services in communities nation-wide. Senators Stabenow and Blunt introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act in February 2013 to put mental health centers on a more equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and expanding access. The law is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Healthcare, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others.
10.19.2015	Senator Stabenow: Michigan Selected as Finalist for First-of-its-kind Mental Health Initiative Monday, October 19, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced that Michigan will be awarded $982,373 to compete in a nation-wide program to improve and expand access to mental health care. This first-of-its-kind initiative is based on Senator Stabenow's Excellence in Mental Health Act, which is one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades. Selected by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Michigan is one step closer to being chosen to be part of a new eight-state demonstration program to expand quality mental health care. This new program will offer patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling, and integrated treatments for mental illness. Senator Stabenow's bipartisan Excellence in Mental Health Act was cosponsored by Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) and signed into law by President Obama last year. "Mental illness touches every family in some way," Senator Stabenow said. "It is critically important that communities in Michigan have the resources they need to help everyone living with mental illness. We must continue to work together to make sure illnesses above the neck are treated the same as illnesses below the neck." "Thanks to the tireless efforts of Senator Debbie Stabenow, the Excellence in Mental Health Act is one step closer to becoming a reality here in Michigan," said Tom Watkins, President and CEO of Detroit Wayne Mental Health Authority. "Her leadership has provided us a pathway to securing better overall mental and physical health resources for society's most vulnerable population. Mental illness touches all of our families and communities in some way - every town, city and state that has dealt with inequality in mental health services for far too long and finally be able to reap the benefits of superior mental healthcare coverage." "We are excited to receive a planning grant for the State of Michigan to design and implement a structure that will further integrate and coordinate behavioral health and primary care, improve outreach to consumers in the greatest need and provide needed and effective coordination of care among providers in multiple settings throughout the state," said Jeff Patton, CEO of Kalamazoo Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services. Michigan is one of 24 states selected to work with interested community mental health centers, Federally-Qualified Health Centers, VA clinics, and other mental health organizations to design a state program that meets the new quality standards for Certified Community Behavioral Health Centers. The eight states chosen to participate in the demonstration program will increase funding for community mental health services and improve the quality of those services. This is the first step toward funding quality behavioral health services in communities nation-wide. Senator Stabenow has been a life-long advocate for quality mental health services. She authored the mental health parity provisions in the Affordable Care Act to stop discrimination in coverage between physical and behavioral health services. Senator Stabenow introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act with Senator Blunt in 2013 to put mental health centers on a more equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and expanding access. The law is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Healthcare, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others. A full list of the 24 states awarded funding can be found here.
10.19.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Investment to Help Michigan Farmers With Disabilities Monday, October 19, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the announcement of $189,000 for Michigan State University and Easter Seals Michigan to continue to help Michigan farmers with disabilities overcome the obstacles they face. This funding for Michigan's AgrAbility program, which comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, will help develop and implement adaptive strategies and equipment so farmers with disabilities can continue to work in agriculture. "Farmers across Michigan play a critical role in supporting our economy, communities, and families," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help make sure all farmers have the resources and support they need to grow and produce things right here in our state." AgrAbility, which is sponsored by USDA, is a nationwide program of partnerships between land grant universities and nonprofit disability services organizations. Approximately 163,000 Michigan farm operators and workers are eligible for Michigan's AgrAbility program, which also helps educate health care providers and farm equipment dealers about the needs of farmers with disabilities. Additionally, this support will help the MSU College of Engineering design and construct equipment so farmers with disabilities can safely continue their work.
10.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on EPA’s Flint Safe Drinking Water Task Force Friday, October 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's establishment of the Flint Safe Drinking Water Task Force: "I met today with several community leaders and Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha, the courageous physician who conducted the study showing how Flint's current water system has been harming children through lead exposure. I share the deep concerns of families in Flint for the long-term health of their children and I will continue to do everything I can to help. "The EPA is taking an important step forward today to provide assistance to the State and the local governments involved as they make critical short-term and long-term decisions for the families of Flint. This current situation is completely unacceptable and everything that is necessary must be done for the health and safety of the community."
10.08.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Proposed Cuts to Michigan Retiree Pensions Thursday, October 08, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding news of the Central States Pension Fund's proposed cuts to the pensions of thousands of Michigan retirees. "A pension is a promise that's earned and workers should be able to count on it when they retire. I am deeply concerned by news of possible cuts to the pensions of thousands of Michigan retirees who worked hard their entire lives. There is no question that pension funds are facing serious challenges due to the Wall Street financial crisis and other factors that are not the fault of the workers or retirees. Congress should take action to stop these potential cuts and make the long-term protection of pensions a top priority. That is why I am cosponsoring S.1631, the Keep our Pension Promises Act, to prevent the proposed cuts to workers' earned pension benefits by closing tax loopholes for special interests. I urge its immediate passage."
10.08.2015	Senators Stabenow, Mikulski and Congresswoman Lee Introduce Bill to Improve Seniors’ Access to Mental Health Services Thursday, October 08, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) today introduced a bill to help seniors who are struggling with mental illness. The Improving Access to Mental Health Act of 2015 will improve seniors' access to behavioral health services by updating the way the Medicare program reimburses clinical social workers. Senator Stabenow, Senator Mikulski and Congresswoman Lee are long-time champions of enhancing patient access to quality mental health services. "Mental illness is an issue that touches every family in some way, and seniors are no exception," said Senator Stabenow. "Seniors should be able to get the best quality care from the provider of their choice, and this bill makes sure that clinical social workers are among those providers." "Our nation's seniors and patients suffering from mental illness deserve to have access to the all the support and services they need at the provider of their choice," Senator Mikulski said. "As a former social worker, I know that wherever there is a compelling human need, there will always be a social worker standing sentry on the front lines, ready to help. This legislation will expand access to mental health services provided by clinical social workers so that those suffering from mental illness can get the critical care they need, when they need it, from the providers of their choice." "As a psychiatric social worker, I know the importance of providing all people with high-quality mental health services and care. Clinical social workers are the largest source of mental health providers in the nation, with more than 200,000 currently practicing," said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. "However, due to outdated policies, social workers are not adequately reimbursed for the vital services they provide. This bill will ensure that Medicare beneficiaries have access to the essential mental health services provided by clinical social workers on a daily basis. I'm proud to join fellow social workers Senators Debbie Stabenow and Barbara Mikulski in introducing this critical bill and working to expand mental health services for all." "In any given year, nearly one out of five people in our nation experiences a mental health condition. NASW commends Sens. Debbie Stabenow, Barbara Mikulski and Congresswoman Lee for introducing this legislation, which recognizes the important role access to quality mental health care plays in our nation's mental health," said Angelo McClain, CEO, National Association of Social Workers. "We are pleased that Sen. Stabenow and her colleagues appreciate the critical role clinical social workers play in providing mental health care and makes the life-affirming services that social workers provide more available to Americans." The Improving Access to Mental Health Act of 2015 would align Medicare payments for clinical social workers with that of other non-physician health care providers like nurse practitioners and physician assistants. This new payment structure, as well as a change to the reimbursements for clinical social workers at skilled nursing facilities, will encourage trained and licensed professionals to care for more seniors in their communities. The legislation would also ensure that seniors have access to the full range of behavioral assessment and intervention services that clinical social workers can provide no matter where they live.
10.06.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Major Food Safety Designation for Battle Creek’s International Food Protection Training Institute Tuesday, October 06, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that the International Food Protection Training Institute (IFPTI) in Battle Creek has been named the National Coordination Center for Food Safety Training by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The Institute will oversee development and implementation of national food safety training programs for small farmers and businesses across the country. The expansion of national food safety training was authored by Stabenow in the 2010 Food Safety Modernization Act. "This important designation recognizes the leadership and unique resources of the Institute and community of Battle Creek," Senator Stabenow said. "Food safety is a critical issue for consumers and once again, Michigan will be leading the way in making sure the food we put on our table is safe for our families." "We are excited to lead this coordination effort for implementation of the Food Safety Modernization Act," Dr. Julia Bradsher, President and CEO of IFPTI said. "From our unique vantage point, IFPTI will be able to focus the interests and efforts of a broad range of stakeholders committed to assuring the safest food for United States consumers. We'd also like to thank Senator Stabenow for her long-term commitment to IFPTI and for her leadership on food safety issues." As the National Coordination Center, the Institute will help train and educate small- and medium-sized producers, small processors, and small fruit and vegetable wholesalers on the importance of developing comprehensive food safety plans. Additionally, the Institute will help establish a series of regional centers for food safety training. Stabenow is a longtime champion on food safety issues. In 2009, Stabenow led the enactment of legislation to establish a national food safety training program for small farmers and processors as part of the Food Safety Modernization Act. In 2011, she hosted Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack for a visit to the International Food Protection Training Institute in order to highlight the work and strengths of the Institute in the area of food safety. Since 2009, the Institute has trained more than 4,500 highly-skilled food safety professionals representing state and federal inspectors from countries around the world.
10.05.2015	Stabenow, Peters Urge NASA’s Continued Support of Harmful Algal Bloom Monitoring Monday, October 05, 2015 With a growing threat of harmful algal blooms, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today sent a letter urging the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Charles F. Bolden to continue support of the Harmful Algal Bloom (HAB) remote-sensing project. HABs have posed a threat to the Great Lakes, including recently in water crises in Monroe County, Michigan and Toledo, OH. Peters and Stabenow joined Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman of Ohio to send the letter. "Last summer, residents of Toledo, Ohio; Monroe County, Michigan; and other nearby communities were unable to drink the tap water in their homes as it had become unsafe due to a large HAB in Western Lake Erie," wrote the Senators in their letter. "The health and safety concerns posed by HABs not only put our communities at risk, but also affect local businesses. The EPA estimates harmful algal blooms cost $64 million per year due to additional drinking water treatment, loss of recreational water usage, and a decline in waterfront real estate values. NASA's remote-sensing program, in collaboration with NOAA and the U.S. Naval Research Lab, serves an integral role in the efforts to provide early warning of HABs." The Senators asked NASA to ensure that the President's fiscal year 2017 budget maintains current funding levels for the HAB remote-sensing project, and to detail its plan for working with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Navy Research Lab, U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, and state and local government and non-governmental organization to monitor HABs on the Western Lake Erie Basin. Lake Erie is the water source for the South County Water District, which provides drinking water in southern Monroe County, Michigan. In August 2014, nearly 30,000 customers in Monroe County were affected by a water use ban due to contamination from toxins produced by algae blooms in Lake Erie. Full text of the letter is below and available here. Charles F. Bolden, AdministratorNational Aeronautics and Space Administration300 E. St. SWWashington, DC Dear Mr. Bolden: We are writing to request your continued support of the Harmful Algal Bloom (HAB) NASA's remote-sensing project undertaken by NASA's Applied Sciences Program. As you know, HABs are a phenomenon that have affected coastal and lake communities for decades, and more recently have increased in frequency and magnitude. Last summer, residents of Toledo, Ohio; Monroe County, Michigan; and other nearby communities were unable to drink the tap water in their homes as it had become unsafe due to a large HAB in Western Lake Erie. The health and safety concerns posed by HABs not only put our communities at risk, but also affect local businesses. The EPA estimates harmful algal blooms cost $64 million per year due to additional drinking water treatment, loss of recreational water usage, and a decline in waterfront real estate values. NASA's remote-sensing program, in collaboration with NOAA and the U.S. Naval Research Lab, serves an integral role in the efforts to provide early warning of HABs. Deploying a hyperspectral imager and miniature spectrometers aboard Glenn's aircraft allows for the collection of up to 50 gigabytes of data per flight -- data that can be processed and analyzed in as few as 4 hours. In contrast, satellite imaging of the blooms can take up to two weeks to be processed, as imaging only occurs when the satellite passes over Lake Erie on a pre-planned orbital route. In water quality emergencies, responsive monitoring of microcystin and other cyanobacteria levels is essential to public health and economic sustainability of coastal Lake Erie cities. While the frequency of satellite images cannot be increased, the frequency of aircraft monitoring can be adjusted to respond to crises. During the Toledo water crisis, flight frequency was increased from 4 to 14 flights per week. In collaboration with the Ohio EPA, NASA was able to foresee a HAB near Kelleys Island, and adjust water treatment in order to maintain safe conditions. NASA has also initiated outreach efforts by running a workshop with plants in Northeast Ohio to inform water treatment professionals about NASA's monitoring capabilities. The remote-sensing capabilities of the hyperspectral imager have applications in many other areas, including defense, precision agriculture, and monitoring the clean-up of oil spills and health of forests. NASA is still learning more about the hyperspectral imaging system and continues to refine its sensitivity to HABs at low concentrations, develop additional sensing technologies, and apply the aircraft-based refined sensing technologies for satellite use. Given these efforts we would request the following:1) That as NASA works on the president's fiscal year (FY) 2017 budget that it include funding for HAB-remote sensing in the Western Lake Erie basin at the current FY 2016 level,2) That NASA detail for us the steps it has taken and intends to take to continue coordinating with its federal counterparts - including NOAA, the Navy Research Lab, USDA, and the EPA - in monitoring HABs on the Western Lake Erie Basin, and3) That NASA detail the steps it has taken and intends to take to coordinate with state and local government and non-governmental organizations in monitoring HABs on the Western Lake Erie Basin. Algal blooms threaten the Lake Erie watershed annually, and require consistent monitoring in order to ensure safe drinking water for the residents of Ohio and Michigan. More research on the hyperspectral imaging system will both advance the technology and allow scientists learn more about HABs in the Western Lake Erie Basin. Thank you for your consideration. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions Sincerely, U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown U.S. Sen. Gary C. PetersU.S. Sen. Rob Portman
10.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for West Michigan Farmers Markets and Local Food Initiatives Friday, October 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $300,290 for six West Michigan farmers markets and local food initiatives. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs, which help expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. We all know buying local is a win for our economy. It's also a win for Michigan agriculture and consumers and these grants will help make that process easier across Michigan." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan last year. These grant programs help improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Muskegon Area First will receive $24,955 to help develop a for-profit food hub. City of Kentwood will receive $43,142 to establish and recruit farmers and vendors to participate in the Kentwood Farmers Market. It will also help Kentwood develop a partnership with the Kent District Library to offer educational opportunities for vendors and consumers. City of Muskegon will receive $75,000 to offer and promote a winter farmers market. This support will also help Muskegon educate the community about the local food options and expand a children's educational program called the Power of Produce Club. Sprout Urban Farms in Battle Creek will receive $90,900 to promote local farmers, growers and producers by supporting Community Supported Agriculture, which allows people to buy into a community farm in return for fruit, vegetables and other agricultural products throughout the growing season. Muskegon Heights will receive $35,000 to expand access to healthy foods for people who often face difficulties accessing fresh, nutritious food. They will also use the support to conduct healthy cooking demonstrations and recruit produce vendors and food truck operators to the Muskegon Heights City Market. City of Allegan will receive $31,293 to expand services and products and encourage people to buy fresh and local produce.
10.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Mid-Michigan Farmers Markets and Local Food Initiatives Friday, October 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $255,469 for four Mid-Michigan farmers markets and local food initiatives. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs, which help expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. We all know buying local is a win for our economy. It's also a win for Michigan agriculture and consumers and these grants will help make that process easier across Michigan." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan last year. These grant programs help improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Greater Lansing Food Bank will receive $85,315 to pilot a "Veggie Box Program," which will help get fresh foods into workplaces and low-income neighborhoods. Prima Civitas in East Lansing will receive $21,120 to evaluate the benefits of a new local food hub. Bath Charter Township will receive $58,534 to increase the number of vendors at the Bath Farmers Market and encourage people to buy fresh and local produce. Farmers Egg Cooperative in Charlotte will receive $90,500 to purchase specialized equipment to increase sales and develop new products.
10.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Northern Michigan Local Food Initiatives Friday, October 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $109,160 for Goodwill Industries of Northern Michigan and the Village of Farwell to expand access to local foods. Goodwill will receive support from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Local Food Promotion Program, which helps develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. Farwell will receive a grant from the USDA's Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Farmers Market Support program to help expand access to healthy foods. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Support like this makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. We all know buying local is a win for our economy. It's also a win for Michigan agriculture and consumers and these grants will help make that process easier across Michigan." Support for the Local Food Promotion Program was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan last year. This grant program helps improve and expand community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Goodwill Industries of Northern Michigan in Traverse City will receive $20,000 to help create a meat-cutting training course for an existing underutilized slaughterhouse. Village of Farwell will receive $89,160 through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Farmers Market Support Grant program to help expand access to healthy foods for people who often face difficulties accessing fresh, nutritious food.
10.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Downtown Marquette Farmers Market Friday, October 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $71,290 for the Downtown Marquette Farmers Market. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farmers Market Promotion Program, which helps expand access to farmers markets and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. We all know buying local is a win for our economy. It's also a win for Michigan agriculture and consumers and these grants will help make that process easier across Michigan." Support for the Farmers Market Promotion Program was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan last year. This grant program helps improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. The City of Marquette's Downtown Development Authority will use the support to increase the number of market vendors and encourage people to buy fresh and local produce. Additionally, the grant will help the market put on food demonstrations of locally sourced food and train famers to promote their businesses using social media.
10.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Southeast Michigan Farmers Markets and Local Food Initiatives Friday, October 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $641,539 for seven Southeast Michigan farmers markets and local food initiatives. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs, which help expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. Eastern Market in Detroit also received a grant from the USDA's Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Farmers Market Support program. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables. We all know buying local is a win for our economy. It's also a win for Michigan agriculture and consumers and these grants will help make that process easier across Michigan." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Programs was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan last year. These grant programs help improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Neighbors Building Brightmoor in Detroit will receive $99,000 to support local farmers by providing them refrigerated storage space and a commercial kitchen. This will help farmers sell more products within the community. Mighty Fine Poultry Processing, LLC in Ann Arbor will receive $24,895 to explore establishing a USDA-certified poultry processing facility in the region. Atlas Wholesale Food Company's Detroit Food Chain will receive $100,000 to promote the sale of local goods and encourage more restaurants to buy locally. Friends of Lincoln Park Farmers Market will receive $49,198 to increase the number of market vendors and encourage people to buy fresh and local produce. Eastern Market will receive $249,663 through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Farmers Market Support Grant program to help expand access to healthy foods for people who often face difficulties accessing fresh, nutritious food. Eastern Market will also receive $93,783 to help growers sell their products in new markets. Pittsfield Charter Township will receive $25,000 to encourage people to buy fresh and local produce. The market will also implement an educational campaign that offers healthy cooking demonstrations.
10.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Celebrates Manufacturing Day with Local Students at Detroit Manufacturing Systems Friday, October 02, 2015 In celebration of Manufacturing Day, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow delivered remarks at Detroit Manufacturing Systems, which opened its doors to hundreds of students, parents and educators on Friday, October 2. School groups had the opportunity to tour the plant and learn about career opportunities in manufacturing. Senator Stabenow recently introduced the New Skills for New Jobs Act to help train workers for new high-skilled jobs. The legislation builds on successful efforts in Michigan that are helping community colleges partner with local businesses to provide training to workers for new high-skilled jobs, making sure the U.S. remains competitive in a global economy.
10.01.2015	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bill to Help Train Workers for New Jobs Thursday, October 01, 2015 In advance of Manufacturing Day on October 2, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today introduced a bill that will help train workers for new high-skilled jobs. Even with thousands of Michigan residents looking for work, businesses across the state are reporting difficulty finding workers for many skilled positions. Senator Stabenow's New Skills for New Jobs Act builds on successful efforts in Michigan and other states that are helping community colleges partner with local businesses to provide training to workers for new high-skilled jobs, making sure the U.S. remains competitive in a global economy. "Thousands of manufacturers across the nation will open their doors this Manufacturing Day to showcase emerging high-growth industries and the latest cutting-edge technologies," said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus. "Unfortunately, many of these businesses are struggling to find qualified workers for new positions at a time when millions of Americans are looking for good-paying jobs. The New Skills for New Jobs Act will build on successful job training partnerships between our community colleges and local businesses to help close the skills gap so our workers are able to get good jobs right now." The New Skills for New Jobs Act would provide a federal match to increase the number of workers and businesses that can participate in the Michigan New Jobs Training Program, which was established in 2008 to help employers provide new employees the training necessary to take high-skilled jobs. Under the program, a business enters into a partnership with a community college to provide new employees with the training necessary to fill skilled positions the business would like to create. Once newly trained employees begin working, their state income tax payments are used to pay back the community college for the cost of the training. Under the New Skills for New Jobs Act, the federal government will provide reimbursement to the community college every quarter. By matching the state contribution generated from the new worker's income tax payments, the federal initiative will repay the community college more quickly and dramatically increase the number of eligible companies and workers that can participate. "Since the passing of the Michigan New Jobs Training Program in 2008, Michigan's community colleges have worked with over one hundred employers to provide free training for 13,900 new jobs," said Mike Hansen, President of the Michigan Community College Association. "The program supports employers across a number of industries, with small to multinational companies operating in Michigan able to benefit from flexible, targeted, and employer-driven training to support new job growth. In just a few short years, the Michigan New Jobs Training Program has repositioned community colleges as a real asset in economic development and in addressing employer talent needs. We applaud Senator Stabenow for introducing the New Skills for New Jobs Act, which has the potential for doubling the Program's current impact." Senator Stabenow's bill has the support of leading business and educational groups, including the Michigan Agri-Business Association, Michigan Community College Association, Michigan College Access Network, BlueGreen Alliance, Michigan Works! Association, American Association of Community Colleges, Next Energy, Detroit Regional Chamber, Association for Career and Technical Education, and National Skills Coalition.
09.30.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $2.5 Million Grant for Muskegon Community College Wednesday, September 30, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded a $2,514,000 grant for Muskegon Community College to be used for renovations of the new Muskegon College Applied Technology Center. The funding comes from the Economic Development Administration's (EDA) Public Works Program. "Manufacturing has always been a driving force in Muskegon's economy," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help Muskegon Community College continue to train the next generation of workers while giving entrepreneurs a place to grow their ideas, which will create jobs and boost the local economy." "We must ensure our community colleges have the necessary tools and resources to prepare students for the jobs of the future so they can help our communities continue to grow and thrive," said Senator Peters. "This funding will allow Muskegon Community College to provide students with applied technology and workforce training that is critical to improving economic competitiveness, creating jobs and promoting further investment in the Muskegon region." This award will help Muskegon Community College renovate the former Chronicle Newspaper Building in downtown Muskegon to create the new Muskegon College Applied Technology Center. The Center will offer applied technology certifications, entrepreneurial programs and space for workforce training in areas including Machining, Welding, Materials/Foundry, Electronics, Computer-Aided Design (CAD), Mechatronics/Automation/Robotics and Plastic Technologies. The Center will also be home to the Fab Lab, which will serve as an incubator for entrepreneurs to develop and market their innovations. The EDA's Public Works Program is dedicated to enhancing the competitiveness, development and revitalization of communities by investing in key public infrastructure.
09.29.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support to Help Spur Economic Development in Western Michigan Tuesday, September 29, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced two Economic Development Administration grants to help spur economic development in Western Michigan. The West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission will receive a $62,500 to help increase the flow of locally manufactured goods through the Port of Muskegon. The Commission and Michigan State University will receive $111,706 to study the economic benefits of using the Port to recycle and reuse structural debris from around the Great Lakes for other projects in the region. "One of Muskegon's top priorities is to increase the flow of goods like agricultural products through their Port," Senator Stabenow said. "This support will help the Commission develop the Port and expand shipping opportunities, which will create jobs, boost the local economy and benefit communities and families throughout the region." "The Great Lakes are a vital economic engine for Michigan, and we must ensure that our port communities have the resources and infrastructure needed to support commerce throughout the region," said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. "This funding will help boost the Muskegon Port's position as a logistics hub for moving commercial goods as well as repurposed materials that will help improve our neighborhoods, support business development and create new jobs in West Michigan." This EDA support will help the Commission analyze existing infrastructure around the Port of Muskegon and make recommendations for improvements, which will increase shipping opportunities and diversify and strengthen the regional economy. Making sure the Port can handle additional traffic is critical for Michigan farm communities and local businesses that want to export their products across the region. Additionally, this support will encourage the continued use of the Port to transport structural materials like asphalt, bricks, and cement from blighted properties to be used for other projects in the region.
09.29.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Michigan State Police to Combat Heroin Distribution, Trafficking Tuesday, September 29, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1,460,611 for the Michigan State Police to collaborate with other departments in the state to crack down on heroin distribution and trafficking. The support comes from the Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Anti-Heroin Task Force program. "Too many Michigan families have lost loved ones to substance abuse and addiction," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Michigan State Police investigate and stop illegal drug activities in communities across our state." "Abuse of opioids like heroin and prescription painkillers has become an increasingly concerning epidemic in communities across Michigan, and it is critical that law enforcement have the necessary resources to prevent drug abuse and distribution," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help the Michigan State Police combat the illegal trafficking of opioids and make our neighborhoods safer places to live and work." The COPS Anti-Heroin Task Force grant is designed to advance public safety by providing funds to investigate illicit activities related to the distribution and trafficking of heroin and prescription opioids. This support is part of nearly $6 million awarded to six states nationwide. More info about this grant can be found here.
09.25.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Funding for Economic Development in Northern Michigan Friday, September 25, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Networks Northwest will receive $51,628 to assist in establishing an economic development planning framework, process, and strategy that supports private capital investment and job creation across Northern Michigan. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA). "Having a regional economic development plan in place will go a long way in attracting new business investment and bringing new jobs to Northern Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help Networks Northwest continue developing a collaborative strategy that will benefit communities and families throughout the area." "My top priority is creating jobs in Michigan and working to foster an environment where all businesses can survive, compete, and succeed," said Senator Peters, a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. "I am pleased to announce this funding, which will make critical investments in economic development across Northern Michigan." "We are so pleased for this financial support from the Economic Development Administration. It helps us each year to advance the economic diversity and strength of Northwest Michigan," said Elaine Wood, Chief Executive Officer, Networks Northwest. The investment announced today supports the development of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) for the region served by Networks Northwest, which includes Antrim, Benzie, Charlevoix, Emmet, Grand Traverse, Kalkaska, Leelanau, Manistee, Missaukee, and Wexford counties. The CEDS process is designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy.
09.24.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Houghton Fire Department Thursday, September 24, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $6,416 for the Houghton Fire Department to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Houghton Fire Department safely protect their community." "It is crucial that Michigan's first responders have the equipment to protect themselves and our families when they are dealing with an emergency situation," Senator Peters said. "This funding will help ensure the Houghton Fire Department has the important resources it needs to safeguard their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.24.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Papal Visit Thursday, September 24, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding His Holiness Pope Francis' visit to the United States and his address to Congress. "It is a great honor to have Pope Francis visiting the United States. He is a charismatic and inspirational leader, uniting people from different religions, countries and backgrounds. His vision for a world without poverty, war or environmental devastation is truly inspiring. His Holiness reminds us all how important it is to protect our earth and treat one another with respect, love and equality."
09.23.2015	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Bill to Protect Great Lakes From Oil Spills, Improve Pipeline Safety Wednesday, September 23, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters (MI) today introduced the Pipeline Improvement and Preventing Spills Act to ban shipping of crude oil by vessel on the Great Lakes and require a comprehensive, top-to-bottom review of hazardous pipelines in the region. This legislation would also assess the current status of oil spill response and cleanup plans, require ice cover be part of worst-case scenarios in response plans, increase public information about pipelines for local communities, and require the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to consider new criteria for identifying areas at high risk for a pipeline spill. Peters serves on the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which is expected to consider pipeline safety legislation this fall, and Senator Stabenow is Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "Another pipeline break like the one that dumped a million gallons of oil into the Kalamazoo River would be devastating for our Great Lakes, waters, and wildlife," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This bill requires a thorough review and plan to minimize risks and prevent catastrophic oil spills. It will give the State of Michigan additional information to provide stronger oversight of oil pipelines to prevent potential spills and keep our waters safe." "After experiencing one of the largest inland oil spills in U.S. history, Michiganders know all too well that a pipeline break can have devastating consequences for our environment and our economy," said Senator Peters, member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "One can only imagine what a disaster it would be for a similar oil spill to occur in the Great Lakes, the world's largest system of fresh surface water. This commonsense legislation will help us prevent an oil spill in the Great Lakes, whether it's a tanker accident or a pipeline leak in the Straits of Mackinac, so that we can protect and preserve this ecological treasure for generations to come." Enbridge Inc. is conducting an emergency response exercise this week for an oil spill at Line 5, the aging twin pipelines that run through the Straits of Mackinac and are now more than 60 years old. On Tuesday, PHMSA Administrator Marie Therese Dominguez accepted an invitation from Stabenow and Peters to attend the spill drill and see firsthand if we have the capacity to respond to an oil spill in the Straits of Mackinac. Participants in the exercise include the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Michigan State Police, local law enforcement, and Native American tribes. The Great Lakes are uniquely vulnerable to an oil spill - especially in the Straits of Mackinac, which experts have described as the worst possible place for an oil spill in the Great Lakes. Shifting currents would spread the oil quickly, contaminating waters, coastline and wildlife throughout Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. A spill in the Great Lakes would be complicated by the lack of research on impacts and cleanup of oil spills in bodies of fresh water, especially under heavy ice cover. Current methods of oil spill response and cleanup, such as oil dispersants and mechanical recovery, may not be as effective in large bodies of cold, fresh water. In an April 28th Commerce Committee hearing, U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Paul F. Zukunft said he "is not comfortable" with current contingency plans for a worst-case scenario spill in the Great Lakes. The Pipeline Improvement and Preventing Spills Act will protect the Great Lakes from oil spills by: • Banning the shipment of crude oil on tanker vessels and barges on the Great Lakes. Earlier this month, the State of Michigan and Enbridge reached an agreement not to transport heavy crude oil under the current configurations of Line 5. As we rapidly explore alternatives to Line 5, and as energy transportation increases in the U.S., this bill makes clear that shipping crude oil on the Great Lakes is an unacceptable transportation option. There is currently no crude oil transported by vessel on the Great Lakes, and this bill keeps it that way.• Mandating federal studies on pipeline risks in the Great Lakes, including alternatives to Line 5. The bill mandates analysis by the Department of Transportation and the National Academies on the risks associated with pipelines that run through the Great Lakes and other waterways in the region. The studies must deliver a report to Congress with safety recommendations related to reducing spill risks, including an assessment of alternatives to Line 5 and a comprehensive map of pipelines crossing waterways in the Great Lakes basin.• Improving oil spill response plans. The legislation requires the U.S. Coast Guard and other agencies to independently assess the current status of oil spill response and cleanup activities and techniques. It would also amend current law to require response plans that address icy conditions, when waters affected by a spill are covered in whole or in part by ice. During the past two winters, maximum ice coverage in the Great Lakes has been well above normal levels. The Coast Guard has stated it does not have the technology or capacity for worst-case discharge cleanup under solid ice, and that its response activities are not adequate in ice-choked waters.• Increasing public information and transparency about pipeline risks. Corporate information on pipeline operating standards, inspection reports and other information related to safety is often kept secret, or difficult to access and understand. The bill ensures residents are notified about pipelines near their property and compels operators to maintain publicly available information.• Expanding PHMSA's criteria for High Consequence Areas. PHMSA requires additional safety measures for hazardous liquid pipelines in High Consequence Areas, and this bill adds new criteria for making that determination. New considerations will include the age of the pipeline, type of oil being transported, whether the pipeline can be inspected using the most modern technology, and whether the pipeline crosses open waters of the Great Lakes. The Pipeline Improvement and Preventing Spills Act is endorsed by Michigan League of Conservation Voters, Pipefitters, Plumbers & HVAC Techs Local 111, FLOW (For Love of Water), Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council, Les Cheneaux Watershed Council, National Wildlife Federation, Michigan Environmental Council, and the Alliance for the Great Lakes. "The state of Michigan is incredibly fortunate to have Senators Peters and Stabenow spearheading a plan to protect our Great Lakes from high-risk oil pipelines that threaten our clean water," said Lisa Wozniak, Executive Director for the Michigan League of Conservation Voters. "We cannot afford another disastrous oil spill in Michigan, and we cannot afford to stand by while aging pipelines continue to carry oil through the Great Lakes. Senator Peters is taking critical steps to keep our drinking water safe and ensure the Great Lakes are here and healthy for future generations to enjoy. We are very grateful for his leadership." "Improving pipeline safety to protect the Great Lakes is in everyone's interest," said Mike Hares, Business Agent and Manager for the Pipefitters, Plumbers & HVAC Techs Local 111. "This bill will require more pipelines to be fitted with the best technology available. Upgrading this energy infrastructure supports jobs for the pipefitters, construction and utility workers who will add safety features, carry out maintenance and inspections, and fix our pipelines. We thank Senators Peters and Stabenow for taking a commonsense approach to tackling this issue for Michigan." "The bill introduced by Senators Peters and Stabenow, the Pipeline Improvement and Preventing Spills Act, is the kind of visionary legislation we need to truly protect our Great Lakes and waterways from a catastrophic oil spills," said Liz Kirkwood, Executive Director of FLOW (For Love of Water), a Great Lakes water law and policy center based in Traverse City. "New pipeline legislation is desperately needed to keep pace with the American energy sector's vast network of 2.6 million miles of pipeline. First and foremost, this bill bans shipping crude oil on any of the Great Lakes as an unacceptable transportation alternative given the extreme risk, magnitude of harm, and inadequate oil spill response. It also demands greater transparency and a water crossing risk analysis about the condition of our nation's aging pipeline infrastructure, as well as heightened protection for high consequence areas like the Great Lakes, which contain some 20 percent of the planet's fresh surface water. We thank Senators Peters and Stabenow for being a Great Lakes champion." "Pipelines crossing Michigan's rivers, streams, and the Great Lakes put these resources at risk - threatening our health and economic viability," said Jennifer McKay, Policy Specialist for Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council. "The bill introduced by Senators Peters and Stabenow represents decisive action that will help safeguard the Great Lakes and Michigan's inland waters from oil spills. We fully support the Pipeline Improvement and Preventing Spills Act and urge Congress to move swiftly to pass this legislation. Taken together, the bill will move us toward the comprehensive approach to oil transportation and pipeline policy we need to protect our Great Lakes, inland waters, and public health. We applaud Senator Peters for introducing a bill that will help protect the ecological and economic future of Michigan as well as health and safety of our citizens." "The Alliance for the Great Lakes supports the Pipeline Improvement and Preventing Spills Act of 2015. We applaud Senators Peters and Stabenow for their leadership in protecting our Great Lakes water from crude oil spills," said Joel Brammeier, President and CEO of the Alliance for the Great Lakes. "We look forward to working with Senators Peters, Stabenow and all of their Great Lakes colleagues to ultimately implement a comprehensive approach to protecting all communities in the region from the risks of crude oil transportation." "Strengthening safeguards from oil pipelines while shutting the door on shipping crude oil on the Great Lakes are commonsense and necessary moves for the world's greatest freshwater resource," said Mike Shriberg, Great Lakes Regional Executive Director for the National Wildlife Federation. "There is no reason to allow the possibility of crude oil tankers on the Great Lakes, especially since oil drilling on and under the Lakes has already been banned by Congress. The National Wildlife Federation commends Senators Peters and Stabenow for their strong leadership in protecting the Great Lakes." Senator Peters has been a strong supporter of enhancing pipeline safety to protect the Great Lakes. In June, the Senate Commerce Committee approved a Peters amendment to the Coast Guard Authorization Act that would require the Coast Guard to work with partner agencies including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to conduct an assessment on the effectiveness of oil spill response activities in the Great Lakes. In January, Peters and Stabenow introduced an amendment that would have required PHMSA to certify it has the resources necessary to conduct proper oversight of pipeline safety in the Great Lakes before approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. It also would have required PHMSA to develop recommendations for special conditions to apply to pipelines in the Great Lakes.
09.22.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $2 Million to Hire Officers for West Michigan Police Departments Tuesday, September 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow Gary Peters today announced more than $2 million in assistance to hire and retain law enforcement officers for police departments in Grand Rapids and Kalamazoo. The grants are part of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program (CHP) and are administered by the U.S. Department of Justice COPS Office. "Our police officers put their lives on the line for us every day," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will give families the peace of mind that officers in their community will be able to respond quickly to a crime or other emergency." "It is essential for police and community members to work together to make public safety a priority," said Senator Peters. "This assistance will help provide communities across West Michigan with vital resources to keep police officers on the beat and promote community policing partnerships that will keep our communities safe." The Grand Rapids Police Department will receive $1 million to recruit, hire or retain eight police officers. The Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety will receive $1.25 million to support 10 officers. The Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) is dedicated to promoting trust and mutual respect between police and the communities they serve as a critical aspect of public safety. The COPS Hiring Program is designed to advance public safety through community policing by providing funds to law enforcement agencies to hire or rehire career law enforcement officers, and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. For more information on the COPS Program, visit: www.cops.usdoj.gov.
09.22.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $2.9 Million to Hire Officers for Southeast Michigan Police Departments Tuesday, September 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded $2.9 million in assistance to hire and retain law enforcement officers for police departments in Detroit, Harper Woods, Taylor and Redford. The grants are part of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program (CHP) and are administered by the U.S. Department of Justice COPS Office. "Our police officers put their lives on the line for us every day," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will give families the peace of mind that officers in their community will be able to respond quickly to a crime or other emergency." "It is essential for police and community members to work together to make public safety a priority," said Senator Peters. "This assistance will help provide communities across Southeast Michigan with vital resources to keep police officers on the beat and promote community policing partnerships that will keep our communities safe." The City of Detroit will receive $1,840,412 to help hire, recruit or retain 15 police officers; the Harper Woods Police Department will receive $250,000 for two officers; the Charter Township of Redford will receive $375,000 for three officers; and the Taylor Police Department will receive $500,000 for four officers. The Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) is dedicated to promoting trust and mutual respect between police and the communities they serve as a critical aspect of public safety. The COPS Hiring Program is designed to advance public safety through community policing by providing funds to law enforcement agencies to hire or rehire career law enforcement officers, and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. For more information on the COPS Program, visit: www.cops.usdoj.gov.
09.22.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters: “Top Pipeline Safety Official Will Participate in First-Ever Straits of Mackinac Pipeline Safety Drill” Tuesday, September 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Marie Therese Dominguez, head of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), will participate in a safety drill taking place at the Enbridge pipeline running underneath the Straits of Mackinac. The 2015 Straits of Mackinac PREP Exercise will test how efficiently private, federal, state and local responders are able to work together to manage a potential oil pipeline spill on the Great Lakes. Administrator Dominguez's agency is critical to preventing oil pipeline spills and accidents that harm Michigan communities. Senators Stabenow and Peters invited Administrator Dominguez to participate in the drill to see firsthand whether or not containing an oil spill on the Great Lakes is possible in the event a spill happens. "Strengthening pipeline safety is a critical issue for Michigan families, for our wildlife and for our natural resources," said Senator Stabenow. "We all remember the devastating pipeline break that spilled nearly one million gallons of oil into the Kalamazoo River. Michigan families cannot afford to have that kind of a spill happen anywhere in the Great Lakes. Administrator Dominguez's agency is key to identifying risks that need to be addressed in order to stop pipeline leaks, which is why her visit to the Straits of Mackinac is so important. I look forward to hearing her recommendations for increased pipeline safety oversight at both the state and federal level." "I'm pleased that PHMSA Administrator Dominguez will be attending Enbridge's emergency response exercise this week to see firsthand if we have the capacity to respond to an oil spill in the Straits of Mackinac," Senator Peters said. "An oil spill in the Great Lakes would have a catastrophic impact on our environment, our waterfront communities and Michigan's economy. With so much at stake, it's important that the leader of the federal agency overseeing pipeline safety will be on site during this drill to assess the situation at Line 5." Led by the U.S. Coast Guard, the 2015 Straits of Mackinac PREP Exercise will take place Tuesday, September 22 through Friday, September 25 in St. Ignace. It will feature simulations that address shoreline cleanup, open water oil recovery, and wildlife rehabilitation practice. In addition to the PHMSA Administrator, participants in the exercise will include the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Michigan State Police, local law enforcement, and Native American tribes. A copy of the Senators' invitation to Administrator Dominguez follows: Dear Administrator Dominguez: We write to request your attendance at the Straits of Mackinac Emergency Response Exercise in St. Ignace, Michigan scheduled for September 22 through September 25, 2015. The exercise will test Enbridge Energy Partners' capacity to work with federal, state, and local responders in the event of a spill at its Line 5 pipeline that runs underneath the Straits of Mackinac. The Enbridge Energy Partners' Line 5 pipeline was installed in 1953 and travels 645 miles between Superior, Wisconsin and Sarnia, Ontario. The pipeline passes inland along environmentally sensitive areas throughout Michigan, including under the Mackinac Straits, where Lake Michigan and Lake Huron meet and separate Michigan's Upper and Lower Peninsulas. PHMSA has identified this leg of the pipeline as a "high-consequence area." A 2014 study conducted by the University of Michigan found that a spill at this location would result in catastrophic contamination of the waters and shorelines of both Lakes Michigan and Huron. Michigan is unfortunately well aware of the devastating impact an oil spill can have on communities and the environment. Five years ago, a pipeline owned by the same company ruptured near the Kalamazoo River in Marshall, Michigan. The 843,000 gallons of oil that spilled into the Kalamazoo was largest inland oil spill in U.S. history and cost more than $1.2 billion to clean up. The 2015 Straits of Mackinac PREP Exercise is an opportunity to see firsthand whether sufficient emergency response capabilities exist to contain an oil spill in the Straits of Mackinac. We hope that your schedule will permit your attendance at this important event.
09.17.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Great Lakes Investment to Reduce Algae Blooms in Lake Erie Thursday, September 17, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, applauded the announcement that the Great Lakes Commission will receive $400,000 to address water quality issues in the Western Lake Erie Basin. This support, which comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Conservation Innovation Grants program, will help the Great Lakes Commission develop a framework to improve water quality and prevent harmful algae blooms in Lake Erie. Funding for the Conservation Innovation Grant program comes from the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, which was reauthorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment will help the Great Lakes Commission improve water quality and protect Lake Erie for generations to come. Additionally, today's announcement builds off the work already being done to prevent algae blooms in Lake Erie thanks to the Regional Conservation Partnership Program and the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative." This grant will support a three-year partnership with Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, and the Province of Ontario. This effort will test water quality trading as a tool to improve water quality in the Western Lake Erie Basin. Water quality trading utilizes a market-based approach to provide incentives for farmers who work to reduce water pollution and restore water quality on and near their lands. This funding is part of a $20.5 million USDA investment in 45 projects across the country to develop and advance the conservation of natural resources. A full list of projects can be found here. Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for reducing algae blooms in Lake Erie and recently announced another award for the Great Lakes Commission to help reduce nutrient, phosphorous, and nitrogen runoff. Additionally, just last month she announced a $5 million U.S. Department of Agriculture investment to help farmers and livestock producers prevent phosphorous and nitrogen runoff into the Western Lake Erie Basin.
09.17.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Three Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, September 17, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Detroit, Dearborn Heights and South Lyon Fire Departments for fire prevention efforts and to improve operations and boost safety in their communities. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Fires continue to threaten the safety of families in communities across Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help make sure these Southeast Michigan fire departments have the tools they need to prevent fires and safely protect their communities." "First responders are on the front lines when emergencies strike in their communities, and it is important they have the resources needed to protect themselves," Senator Peters said. "With these funds, firefighters in South Lyon and Dearborn Heights will be better equipped to respond in the event of a fire or emergency, and the Detroit Fire Department will be able to promote fire safety and prevention." Detroit Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $349,776 for fire prevention education and to install fire detectors in the city. Dearborn Heights Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $155,423 for safety and operations. South Lyon Fire Department in Oakland County will receive $22,315 for safety and operations. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. Fire prevention grants enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about these grants can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.17.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Kentwood Fire Department Thursday, September 17, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $114,949 for the Kentwood Fire Department in Kent County to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Kentwood Fire Department safely protect their community." "First responders are on the front lines when emergencies strike in their communities, and it is important they have the resources needed to protect themselves," Senator Peters said. "With these funds, firefighters in Kentwood can be better equipped to make their neighborhood a safer place to live." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Support to Protect Honeybees in Michigan Wednesday, September 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the announcement that the American Farmland Trust in Lansing will receive $306,118 to support the recovery of bees and other pollinators critical to growing many Michigan crops. This support, which comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Conservation Innovation Grants program, will protect pollinators like honeybees, insects, and birds. Funding for the Conservation Innovation Grants program comes from the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, which was reauthorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Michigan's fruit and vegetable growers rely on honeybees and other insects to ensure and maintain a safe, abundant food supply for our nation," said Senator Stabenow. "Thanks to support in my bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill, farmers across the country have access to conservation tools to help the declining honeybee population recover and keep our agricultural economy healthy and strong." Through a "Payment for Ecosystem Services" program, this support will offer incentives to farmers who manage their land in a way that's safe for pollinators, which play a key role in Michigan's thriving agricultural economy. This support will help the American Farmland Trust work with approximately 15 businesses to protect and establish at least 40 acres of habitat for pollinators by generating pollinator credits on protected farmland. This support will also help train farmers to put in place conservation practices on their land. More than 130 fruits and vegetables depend on honeybees alone for pollination, but habitat loss, diseases, parasites, and pesticides have caused the population to decline significantly. Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill has helped landowners target beneficial pollinators through conservation programs and practices, including planting cover crops. This funding is part of a $20.5 million USDA investment in 45 projects across the country to develop and advance the conservation of natural resources. A full list of projects can be found here.
09.15.2015	Senator Stabenow Urges Top Officials to Address Currency Manipulation in International Trade Agreement Tuesday, September 15, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Manufacturing Caucus, today reiterated her commitment to hold countries accountable for engaging in unfair trade practices, which eliminate manufacturing jobs in Michigan. In a bipartisan letter to United States Trade Representative Michael Froman and Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, Senator Stabenow and her colleagues called on officials negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership to recognize the disastrous effects currency manipulation has on Michigan businesses, workers and jobs. The Trans-Pacific Partnership is a multi-national trade agreement currently being negotiated among the United States and 12 countries within the Pacific Rim. This letter comes after several Asian-Pacific countries began devaluing their currencies last month. The letter reads in part: "As you know, we have long been concerned about currency issues, which directly impact the competitiveness of workers in our states and across the country. However, recently China devalued its currency by over 4 percent. In response to China's actions, Vietnam devalued its currency nearly 1 percent and Korea has since done the same. We do not expect these devaluations to be the last, even in the near-term. We fear these recent currency interventions could lead to a pattern of competitive devaluation within the Asia-Pacific that could hurt US workers and exports for years to come. Therefore, it is extremely important that TPP addresses currency issues in meaningful and concrete ways." China, which is one of America's largest trading partners, has been devaluing its currency for years. A strong U.S. dollar against a weak foreign currency - particularly one that is artificially weak due to government manipulation - causes foreign products like appliances to be cheaper in Michigan and for Michigan products to be more expensive in countries that manipulate their currencies. When currencies are weak, companies in Michigan make less money while the cost of manufacturing goods goes up. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to toughen enforcement of existing trade agreements and hold other countries accountable for artificially undervaluing their currency. In May, she fought to include an amendment in the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) that would add clear language to require that any future trade deals must include enforceable currency provisions. She is also the lead cosponsor of the Currency Undervaluation Investigation Act, which would require the U.S. government to penalize countries that intentionally devalue their currencies to make their own goods artificially cheap. Earlier this month, the White House called on Congress to send President Obama a currency enforcement bill. Currency manipulation is the most significant 21st century trade barrier that American manufacturers face today and has resulted in the loss of as many as five million jobs in the United States. Addressing this unfair practice could create hundreds of thousands of jobs in Michigan alone. The letter was signed by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC). The full letter to United States Trade Representative Michael Froman and Treasury Secretary Jack Lew follows. Dear Ambassador Froman and Secretary Lew, We would appreciate you updating us on the efforts to address currency issues in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). As you know, we have long been concerned about currency issues, which directly impact the competitiveness of workers in our states and across the country. However, recently China devalued its currency by over 4 percent. In response to China's actions, Vietnam devalued its currency nearly 1 percent and Korea has since done the same. We do not expect these devaluations to be the last, even in the near-term. We fear these recent currency interventions could lead to a pattern of competitive devaluation within the Asia-Pacific that could hurt US workers and exports for years to come. Therefore, it is extremely important that TPP addresses currency issues in meaningful and concrete ways. Further, as China's recent devaluation demonstrated, these interventions can have significant and immediate global economic impacts. Thus, currency issues must be addressed seriously, aggressively, and promptly. Recent comments by foreign TPP negotiators to Senate staff members suggest very little progress has been made on this issue. We would appreciate your perspective as to the impact these devaluations are having on US workers and your efforts to address them in the continuing TPP negotiations. Thank you for your attention to this issue.
09.14.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce over $650,000 for Capital Region International Airport Monday, September 14, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Capital Region Airport Authority will receive $652,400 for improvements at Capital Region International Airport in Lansing, including for the rehabilitation of a taxiway and to address key issues, objectives, and goals related to safety developments. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). "This investment will make travelling to and from Mid-Michigan safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting the Capital Region International Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Travelers to and from the Greater Lansing area count on Capital Region International Airport for safe and reliable transportation," said Senator Peters. "This funding will make important improvements to the airport's overall safety and operations and will encourage economic growth in the region."
09.14.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce over $700,000 for Sawyer International Airport Monday, September 14, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Marquette County will receive $702,900 for improvements at Sawyer International Airport near Marquette, including the installation of runway fencing and runway rehabilitation. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). "This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting Sawyer International Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Travelers to and from the Upper Peninsula count on Sawyer International Airport for safe and reliable transportation," said Senator Peters. "This funding will make important improvements to the airport's overall safety and operations and will encourage economic growth in the region."
09.14.2015	Senator Stabenow, Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses Alumni Discuss the Role of Entrepreneurs in Economic Growth and Job Creation Monday, September 14, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow joined Detroit graduates of Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses to discuss the role of small businesses in growing local economies and efforts to help entrepreneurs expand their business and create new jobs. Senator Stabenow held a media availability with Detroit small business owners on September 14. She recently introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs. Goldman Sachs launched 10,000 Small Businesses in Detroit and Southeast Michigan in November 2013 and committed $20 million for small business loans, business education and grants for supporting community partners. For more information, please visit: http://www.goldmansachs.com/citizenship/10000-small-businesses/US/index.html
09.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Investment in Charlevoix Municipal Airport Friday, September 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $86,400 grant for Charlevoix Municipal Airport from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The grant will help the airport rehabilitate its runway lighting system and groove a portion of the runway to eliminate hydroplaning. "This investment will make travelling to and from Northern Michigan safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting the Charlevoix Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "A safe, modern and efficient transportation system is key to expanding economic growth and creating new jobs in Michigan," said Senator Peters. "This funding for the Charlevoix Airport will help upgrade the airport's runways to facilitate safe air travel to Northern Michigan, helping to increase tourism and commerce." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
09.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Petoskey Department of Public Safety Friday, September 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $133,049 for the Petoskey Department of Public Safety's fire service to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Petoskey Department of Public Safety safely protect their community." "It is essential that first responders have the necessary resources to protect themselves when responding to an emergency, and this funding will help ensure that firefighters in Petoskey can continue safeguarding communities," Senator Peters said. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Williamston Fire Department Friday, September 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $76,762 for the Williamston Fire Department in Ingham County to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Williamston Fire Department safely protect their community." "It is essential that first responders have the necessary resources to protect themselves when responding to an emergency, and this funding will help ensure that firefighters in Williamston can continue safeguarding communities," Senator Peters said. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Springfield Fire Department Friday, September 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $78,204 for the Springfield Fire Department in Calhoun County to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Springfield Fire Department safely protect their community." "It is essential that first responders have the necessary resources to protect themselves when responding to an emergency, and this funding will help ensure that firefighters in Springfield can continue safeguarding communities," Senator Peters said. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Royal Oak and Hamtramck Fire Departments Friday, September 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Royal Oak Fire Department for fire prevention and the Hamtramck Fire Department to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Fires continue to threaten the safety of families in communities across Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Royal Oak Fire Department prevent fires and give the Hamtramck Fire Department the tools they need to safely protect their community." "It is essential that first responders have the necessary resources to protect themselves when responding to an emergency," Senator Peters said. "This funding will help ensure that firefighters in Hamtramck can continue safeguarding their community and the Royal Oak Fire Department can continue promoting fire prevention efforts and public safety." Royal Oak Fire Department in Oakland County will receive $63,524 to buy smoke detectors for families that cannot afford detectors. Hamtramck Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $166,910 for safety and operations. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. Fire prevention grants enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about these grants can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.04.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $2 Million to Continue Cleanup of Manistique River Friday, September 04, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality will receive $2,124,028 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to help continue the cleanup of contaminated sediment from industrial waste in the Manistique River. This support will help MDEQ develop and implement measures to remediate poly-chlorinated biphenyls (PCB) contamination in the watershed. "Our lakes and waterways are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment will help clean up pollution and conserve beautiful natural resources in the Manistique watershed for generations to come." "Michigan is blessed with an abundance in natural resources, and it is vital that we work to protect these resources for future generations," said Senator Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force. "I applaud this funding, which will build on efforts to clean the Manistique River watershed and boost the Upper Peninsula's economy." The Manistique River has been listed as an Area of Concern since 1987 due to repeated contamination from PCBs, oils and combined sewer overflows. In addition, debris and sawdust from more than a century of logging and milling in the region have degraded the Manistique River watershed. As a result, over the years there have been restrictions on dredging and fish and wildlife consumption, as well as beach closings. When completed, the project is expected to significantly reduce the PCB levels in the Manistique River channel and harbor. With successful remediation, dredging restrictions will be removed and fish PCB concentrations will return to safe levels. Meeting these objectives will lead to the removal of the remaining Beneficial Use Impairments (BUIs) that were identified in 1987 for the Manistique River Area of Concern.
09.03.2015	Delegation Defense Tour Highlights Importance of Michigan’s Military Installations and Missions Thursday, September 03, 2015 The Michigan Congressional delegation traveled across the state this week on the first-ever defense tour of Michigan's military installations. The bipartisan Member tour, hosted by the Michigan Army and Air National Guard and the U.S. Army TACOM Lifecycle Management Command, helped strengthen the delegation's understanding of Michigan's defense assets and identified new opportunities and partnerships to grow Michigan's defense interests and create jobs. The tour also showcased the importance of Michigan's defense assets, research and technologies, and our military's role nationally, across our state, and in our communities. "Our delegation continues to work together on areas where we all have common interests, like supporting Michigan's military installations and missions vital to our nation's security," said Sen. Debbie Stabenow. "This bipartisan tour gave Members a unique opportunity to say thank you to the outstanding men and women who serve us in defense of our country while learning about Michigan's impressive defense assets. We also recommitted ourselves to continue partnering to protect our current missions and identify new opportunities that will create jobs." "Supporting our Michigan military missions and installations is crucial for our nation's security and for Michigan jobs," said Rep. Fred Upton. "This unique, bipartisan tour was a great opportunity to say thank you to our men and women in uniform, their families, and to learn firsthand about our defense assets. I look forward to continuing to work in a bipartisan manner with all of my Michigan colleagues as we push to protect current missions and look down the line to future opportunities that position Michigan as a vital component in our nation's defense." "Detroit put the world on wheels and today, right in our back yard, TACOM and TARDEC keep our nation's military on wheels through the impressive work they do on ground systems," said Rep. Sandy Levin. "As the Army's center for research and development in advanced technology ground systems, TACOM and TARDEC demonstrate the synergies between the military and the auto industry, and continue to boost manufacturing and jobs in our state. "Over the last two days, I had the unique opportunity to see, firsthand, how Michigan's military installations, including Selfridge ANGB, which I am so proud to represent, are utilizing comprehensive defense components to ensure the security of our Homeland," said Rep. Candice Miller. "Michigan's brave servicemen and women continue to play a critical role in our nation's national defense, at home and abroad, and I look forward to continuing to work to expand and enhance the defense capabilities housed in Michigan." "Home to Camp Grayling and the Alpena Combat Readiness Center, Michigan's First District has strong ties to our nation's defense," said Rep. Dan Benishek. "Additionally, over 11% of our residents are veterans, making Northern Michigan one of the top districts for vets. I look forward to meeting again with the many great people involved with these facilities that are so important to keeping our nation safe." "This bipartisan tour provided vital insight into how Michigan's military instillations defend our nation and support missions happening across the globe," said Rep. Bill Huizenga. "With Michigan's strong manufacturing base, our state is well positioned to play an even greater role to support the needs of our armed forces. However, in order to do that, the conversation in Washington must change from reducing military spending to ensuring our men and women in uniform have the resources necessary to protect our nation and complete their mission." "Since southeast Michigan earned worldwide renown as the ‘Arsenal of Democracy' during World War II, our state has played a critical role in supporting military readiness and our national defense," said Rep. Debbie Dingell. "This defense tour provided a valuable opportunity for our delegation to personally thank the men and women in uniform who keep us safe and to better understand how the work that is happening in Michigan supports their mission. The Michigan delegation - Republicans and Democrats - are committed to working together to protect the valuable work being done here and ensure the unique assets of the auto industry, research institutions, and military research and development centers are integrated to ensure we stay at the forefront of national defense." Members of the Michigan delegation travelled together to Selfridge Air National Guard Base; U.S. Army TACOM Life Cycle Management Command at the Detroit Arsenal; Camp Grayling Joint Maneuver Training Center; Battle Creek Air National Guard Base; and Fort Custer Training Center. The tour gave military commanders an opportunity to brief Members on current missions and defense assets and demonstrate the critical work happening on the ground at military installations across the state. Members were also briefed by the Michigan Defense Center, which is leading a comprehensive, state-wide strategic planning process to protect and grow Michigan's defense interests. Part of the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, the Michigan Defense Center is the State of Michigan's strategic and coordinating body for defense and homeland security economic issues. According to the Center, defense and homeland security is a multi-billion dollar sector of Michigan's economy, supporting over 51,000 private sector jobs. For more information, visit www.michigandefensecenter.com.
09.03.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Charter Township of Lansing Fire Department Thursday, September 03, 2015 U.S. Senators and Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $28,191 in funding for the Charter Township of Lansing Fire Department to fund professional training, upgrades to facilities, protective equipment and other supplies to improve operations and safety. The funding is awarded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help the Lansing Fire Department buy new CPR devices so they are ready to respond in an emergency." "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities in dangerous situations, and we must ensure they have the training and equipment to do their jobs safely and effectively," said Senator Peters. "This assistance will help ensure the Charter Township of Lansing Fire Department will be better prepared to help protect public safety when disaster strikes." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Grants are awarded through a competitive process to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant program can be found here.
09.03.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance to Improve West Michigan Fire Safety Thursday, September 03, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced more than $1.5 million in assistance to the Grand Rapids Fire Department, the Charter Township of Kalamazoo Fire Department and the Healthy Homes Coalition of West Michigan to help improve fire safety in West Michigan. "Fires continue to threaten the safety of families in communities across Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Healthy Homes Coalition of West Michigan work to prevent fires in the Grand Rapids area. This support will also give the Grand Rapids and Kalamazoo Fire Departments the tools they need to safely protect their communities." "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities in dangerous situations, and we must ensure they have the training and equipment to do their jobs safely and effectively," said Senator Peters. "This assistance will promote fire prevention by helping families get working smoke detectors placed in their homes, as well as ensure that the Grand Rapids and the Charter Township of Kalamazoo Fire Departments will be better prepared to help protect public safety when disaster strikes." The Grand Rapids Fire Department will receive $1,183,819 and the Charter Township of Kalamazoo Fire Department will receive $268,331 through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The assistance will help fund professional training, upgrades to facilities, protective equipment and other supplies to improve operations and safety. The Healthy Homes Coalition of West Michigan will receive $50,659 through a Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) Grant to help install free smoke detectors in homes for at-risk families living in the cities of Grand Rapids, Kentwood or Wyoming. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant and Fire Prevention and Safety Grant programs are part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). AFG Grants are awarded through a competitive process to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the AFG program can be found here. Fire Prevention and Safety Grants are competitive grants that support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards.
09.03.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Flint and Bay Region Fire Departments Thursday, September 03, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced more than $278,000 in assistance for the Bridgeport Charter Township Fire Department and Homer Township Fire Department to fund professional training, upgrades to facilities, protective equipment and other supplies to improve operations and safety. The funding is awarded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The Bridgeport Charter Township Fire Department in Saginaw County will receive $141,715. The Homer Township Fire Department in Midland County will receive $136,667. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Bridgeport and Homer Fire Departments safely protect their communities." "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities in dangerous situations, and we must ensure they have the training and equipment to do their jobs safely and effectively," said Senator Peters. "This assistance will help ensure the Bridgeport Charter Township and Homer Township Fire Departments will be better prepared to help protect public safety when disaster strikes." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Grants are awarded through a competitive process to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant program can be found here.
09.03.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Northern Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, September 03, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced more than $99,000 in assistance for the Otsego County Fire Department and the Lake City Area Fire Department to fund professional training, upgrades to facilities, protective equipment and other supplies to improve operations and safety. The funding is awarded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Lake City and Otsego County Fire Departments safely protect their communities." "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities in dangerous situations, and we must ensure they have the training and equipment to do their jobs safely and effectively," said Senator Peters. "This assistance will help ensure the Otsego County and Lake City Area Fire Departments will be better prepared to help protect public safety when disaster strikes." The Otsego County Fire Department will receive $44,286. The Lake City Area Fire Department in Missaukee County will receive $55,429. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Grants are awarded through a competitive process to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant program can be found here.
09.03.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, September 03, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Brighton Area Fire Authority, the Milan Area Fire Department, the Superior Township Fire Department, the Dearborn Heights Fire Department and Center Line Public Safety were awarded assistance to improve operations and safety and support regional projects to improve emergency response services. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The Brighton Area Fire Authority will receive $86,204; the Milan Area Fire Department will receive $33,334; and Center Line Public Safety will receive $146,063 in operations and safety funding for professional training, personal protective equipment and other supplies to support firefighting. The Superior Township Fire Department will receive $321,828, and the Dearborn Heights Fire Department will receive $613,410 in AFG regional grants to aid emergency responders, including firefighters and emergency medical services, operating in multiple jurisdictions. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help Southeast Michigan fire departments safely protect their communities." "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities in dangerous situations, and we must ensure they have the training and equipment to do their jobs safely and effectively," said Senator Peters. "This assistance will help fire departments across Southeast Michigan be better prepared to help protect public safety when disaster strikes." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Grants are awarded through a competitive process to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant program can be found here.
09.01.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $4 Million for Bishop International Airport Tuesday, September 01, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $4,387,392 grant for Bishop International Airport in Genesee County from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The grant will help the airport rehabilitate its runway, replace and install new runway lighting, and remove trees that could obstruct several runways. "This investment will make travelling to and from Genesee County safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting Bishop Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Many travelers rely on Bishop International Airport for travel to and from the Flint and Bay Region," said Senator Peters. "This funding will improve airport operations and facilitate safe air travel while encouraging economic growth in the region." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
08.28.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $4 Million for Gerald R. Ford International Airport Friday, August 28, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Kent County will receive $3,987,379 for improvements to Gerald R. Ford International Airport. The funding, which comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), will be used for reconstruction of an existing runway and to expand the existing terminal building to enable more efficient movement of passengers. "This investment will make travelling to and from West Michigan safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting Ford Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Ensuring safe and reliable air travel is critical for economic growth and job creation," said Senator Peters. "I applaud this funding, which will help facilitate safe travel to West Michigan and strengthen overall airport operations."
08.28.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $123,500 for Alpena County Regional Airport Friday, August 28, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Alpena County will receive $123,500 for improvements to Alpena County Regional Airport. The funding, which comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), will be used for rehabilitation of existing runways and taxiways. "This investment will make travelling to and from Northern Michigan safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting Alpena County Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Ensuring reliable air travel is critical for economic growth and job creation," said Senator Peters. "I applaud this funding, which will help facilitate safe travel to Alpena and strengthen overall airport operations."
08.27.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Fire Prevention Grant for the Michigan Public Health Institute Thursday, August 27, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Michigan Public Health Institute in Okemos to help increase public safety through fire prevention and preparedness. This $486,415 grant comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Fire Prevention and Safety program. "Fires continue to threaten the safety of families in communities across Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Prevention is key and this initiative will help save lives and the treasured possessions of so many families." "Fire safety and prevention awareness is essential to making our communities safer places to live and work," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding, which will help the Michigan Public Health Institute promote public safety across our state and keep families out of harm's way." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.27.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Breckenridge-Wheeler Township Fire Department Thursday, August 27, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $74,286 for the Breckenridge-Wheeler Township Fire Department in Gratiot County to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Breckenridge-Wheeler Fire Department safely protect their community." "It is critical that first responders have the equipment and resources needed to protect themselves when responding to emergencies," Senator Peters said. "This funding will help ensure firefighters at the Breckenridge-Wheeler Township Fire Department can continue protecting communities in a safe and efficient manner." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.27.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Watersmeet Volunteer Fire Department Thursday, August 27, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $13,856 for the Watersmeet Volunteer Fire Department in Gogebic County to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Watersmeet Fire Department safely protect their community." "It is critical that first responders have the equipment and resources needed to protect themselves when responding to emergencies," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help ensure firefighters in Watersmeet can continue protecting their communities in a safe and efficient manner." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.27.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Alpena Fire Department Thursday, August 27, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $106,667 for the Alpena Fire Department to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Alpena Fire Department safely protect their community." "It is critical that first responders have the equipment and resources needed to protect themselves when responding to emergencies," Senator Peters said. "This funding will help ensure firefighters in Alpena can continue protecting their communities in a safe and efficient manner." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.27.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Burton Fire Department Thursday, August 27, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $62,291 for the Burton Fire Department in Genesee County to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Burton Fire Department safely protect their community." "It is critical that first responders have the equipment and resources needed to protect themselves when responding to emergencies," Senator Peters said. "This funding will help ensure firefighters in Burton can continue protecting their communities in a safe and efficient manner." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.27.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $4 Million for Taylor and Springfield Township Fire Departments Thursday, August 27, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced more than $4.4 million to help the Taylor Fire Department and Springfield Township Fire Department in Southeast Michigan recruit and hire more firefighters. This support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Taylor and Springfield Township Fire Departments make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." "First responders are on the frontlines protecting our communities when emergencies strike," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding, which will help ensure fire departments in Springfield Township and Taylor are adequately staffed and prepared to respond to emergencies." Taylor Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $4,303,500. Springfield Township Fire Department in Oakland County will receive $152,344. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, a competitive grant process to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the frontline firefighters they need to protect their communities. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program
08.24.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Iran Nuclear Agreement Monday, August 24, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the international agreement between Iran and the P5+1--United States, Germany, France, Russia, China and the United Kingdom--with the European Union to stop Iran's ability to obtain a nuclear weapon: "I have repeatedly supported strong sanctions, backed by the international community, to pressure Iran to give up its nuclear weapons program. Those sanctions have succeeded in isolating the Iranian regime, crippling their economy, and forcing them to the negotiating table. But sanctions by themselves have not stopped Iran's nuclear program. In 2003, Iran had just 164 centrifuges for a nuclear weapon. Today, they have over 19,000 and have the capacity to acquire enough nuclear material to build a nuclear weapon by the end of this year. "This is a dangerous regime that kidnaps Americans such as Michigan's Amir Hekmati, who needs to be released immediately, and sends weapons and other support to Hezbollah and other terrorists who seek to destroy the United States, Israel, and our other allies. "The only thing worse than Iran being the largest state sponsor of terrorism would be Iran as the largest state sponsor of terrorism with a nuclear weapon. That's why getting this right is essential for the security of America, Israel and the entire Middle East. "I have had extensive classified and unclassified briefings, extensive discussions with our U.S. negotiators and leaders from every country involved in negotiating this agreement. I have met with leaders representing the current Israeli government as well as former military and civilian Israeli leaders. And, I have heard from so many people in Michigan, with passionate feelings on both sides of this critical issue. "I have determined that the imminent threat of Iran having a nuclear weapon outweighs any flaws I see in the international agreement. For this reason, I must support the agreement. "For me, the decision comes down to this: without this international agreement, Iran will have enough nuclear material for a weapon in three months. With this agreement, and the international coalition committed to it, we have the opportunity to stop Iran from ever getting a nuclear weapon, certainly for at least 25 years. "I completely understand the deep fear and emotion involved in this debate. When Iranian extremist leaders chant ‘death to America' and ‘death to Israel,' the first question we have is ‘how in the world can we trust them to live up to an agreement?' The answer is: we cannot. That is why this agreement is not based on trust in any way. It's based on strict inspections and verification coupled with the fact that America keeps all of our current options, including military action, if Iran in any way continues down the path of creating a nuclear weapon. "Under the agreement, Iran must reduce their stockpile of low enriched uranium by 98 percent and the number of centrifuges from over 19,000 to 6,104 with those centrifuges only being allowed to be used for medical research or other peaceful purposes. Iran will be subject to an intrusive inspections regime under continuous monitoring. If Iran violates this agreement in any way, America will know about it and be able to snap sanctions back into place. "And critically important to me, we will have additional information about the movement of uranium and component parts needed to make nuclear weapons for at least 25 years. "Again, most importantly, if Iran tries to develop a nuclear weapon, the United States continues to have every option on the table, including military action. "I do share concerns about parts of the agreement, including how Iran could use funds from sanctions relief to continue funding Hezbollah and other terrorists around the world. It is clear that they have been funding these activities despite the crippling sanctions. And we are right to be concerned that additional funds from sanctions relief, or any other sources from other countries if this agreement is not approved, could be used to continue these outrageous activities. "That is why it is critical that the White House and Congress redouble our efforts to stop Iran's support for terrorism in addition to this crucial and essential effort to stop Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. I strongly support strengthening our sanctions on terrorism and human rights violations, with more aggressive targeting and enforcement; tracking any new spending on Iran's non-nuclear activities from new sources; and ensuring that Israel maintains its qualitative military edge. "This agreement is not perfect, but I have personally spoken to leaders representing the P5+1 countries and the European Union who have said quite clearly that if the United States rejects this agreement, they will not join in new negotiations for a better deal. Instead, I believe that other countries will lift their sanctions on Iran, and the United States will be isolated in the international community. "And, regrettably, it is clear to me that other countries will no longer trust our great country to negotiate and work with them in good faith. "So America must choose between the following: an international coalition working together to stop a nuclear Iran while increasing our joint efforts to stop their non-nuclear terrorist activities, or no international effort, no surveillance, no accountability and a nuclear Iran within a few months. "By agreeing to this deal, the international community will continue to be united against Iranian aggression. And if they violate the agreement and we need to use military force, the international community will be with us, rather than against us. "A final note: I am deeply concerned that national security decisions and foreign policy have become highly-charged partisan issues, including our relationship with our long-time friend and democratic ally, Israel. "I'm reminded of a very distinguished and highly-honored Republican U.S. Senator from Michigan, Arthur Vandenberg, who once said, ‘politics stops at the water's edge.' He was Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in the 1940s and an ardent opponent of President Franklin Roosevelt's domestic policies. Senator Vandenberg set the Congressional standard of patriotism and statesmanship for over 70 years in our country. I am committed to continuing his legacy on behalf of the people of our great State."
08.21.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $765,000 for Detroit River and Rouge River Habitat Restoration Friday, August 21, 2015 Michigan's U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, both members of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is awarding $765,605 to fund habitat restoration projects for the Detroit River and Rouge River Areas of Concern (AOC). "Our lakes and waterways are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow. "These investments will help protect and restore critical fish and wildlife habitats and make sure our waters remain clean and healthy for generations to come." "Michigan's economic strength depends on the health of the Great Lakes ecosystem, including our multi-billion dollar fishing, boating and outdoor recreation industries," said Senator Peters. "This funding will invest in critical habitat restoration projects in the Detroit River and Rouge River, helping fish and wildlife thrive in Southeast Michigan's waterways." Friends of the Detroit River will receive $415,605 for habitat restoration at the Detroit River AOC at Stony Island, a major step in completing habitat reconstruction among the islands in the lower part of the Detroit River that serve as one of the most important spawning areas for western Lake Erie. This funding will protect and create 50 acres of backwater habitat, resulting in more acreage of habitat restoration in the Detroit River than any previous restoration effort in the past. The Alliance of Rouge Communities will receive $350,000 for designing a fish passage around the Henry Ford Estate Dam in the Rouge River AOC. Once completed, this would help restore the Rouge River ecosystem and positively impact 50 main and 108 tributary river miles for fish migration to the Great Lakes system for the first time in over a century. The U.S.-Canada Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement designates AOCs as sites with the worst legacies of toxic contamination and environmental degradation in the Great Lakes ecosystem in order to focus federal cleanup efforts. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency currently lists 11 different AOCs in the State of Michigan. Two AOCs at Deer Lake and White Lake were delisted in 2014 after successful efforts to remediate and restore these ecosystems.
08.21.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $140,000 for Firefighters in Allen Township Friday, August 21, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Allen Township Fire Department will receive $139,224 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to support local operations and safety improvements. Grant projects will help fund training programs, update equipment and facilities and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Allen Township Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "When they enter emergency situations, our first responders and firefighters deserve to have the best training, equipment and facilities to keep our communities safe," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help ensure that our firefighters and first responders in Allen Township are better prepared to protect our families and neighborhoods." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. Approximately $305 million in grants will be awarded from FY 2014 funding. More information about the grant program can be found here.
08.21.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $18,000 for Firefighters in Oceana County Friday, August 21, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Walkerville Area Fire & Rescue will receive $17,953 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to support local operations and safety improvements. Grant projects will help fund training programs, update equipment and facilities and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Walkerville Area Fire & Rescue buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "When they enter emergency situations, our first responders and firefighters deserve to have the best training, equipment and facilities to keep our communities safe," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help ensure that firefighters and first responders in Walkerville are better prepared to protect our families and neighborhoods." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. Approximately $305 million in grants will be awarded from FY 2014 funding. More information about the grant program can be found here.
08.21.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Assistance for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Friday, August 21, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded that the City of Dearborn, the Waterford Regional Fire Department and the Lincoln Park Fire Department will receive funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to support local operations and safety improvements. The City of Dearborn will receive $995,572; the Waterford Regional Fire Department will receive $199,114; and the Lincoln Park Fire Department will receive $6,046. Grant projects will help fund training programs, update equipment and facilities and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help these Southeast Michigan fire departments buy the equipment they need to safely protect their communities." "When they enter emergency situations, our first responders and firefighters deserve to have the best training, equipment and facilities to keep our communities safe," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help ensure that firefighters and first responders in Southeast Michigan are better prepared to protect our families and neighborhoods." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. Approximately $305 million in grants will be awarded from FY 2014 funding. More information about the grant program can be found here.
08.20.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on the Passing of Former Congressman Louis Stokes Thursday, August 20, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the passing of retired Ohio Congressman Louis Stokes. "I am deeply saddened by the passing of former Congressman Louis Stokes. I was honored to serve with him in Congress where he was a real champion for working families and a pioneer for civil rights. He was a dear friend, and my thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time."
08.18.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $4 Million Grant for University of Michigan Tuesday, August 18, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor will receive $3,978,545 for research into the conservation of estuaries and the potential impacts water quality degradation, habitat loss, and climate change may have on estuary ecosystems. The funding comes from the National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). "Our lakes and waterways are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow. "This investment will help University of Michigan researchers and scientists find new ways to keep our waters clean and protect our wildlife and natural resources for generations to come" "The University of Michigan has been a worldwide leader in research and development, pioneering innovative ways to protect our environment for future generations," said Senator Peters. "This funding will allow the University of Michigan to research estuary conservation techniques so these critical ecosystems can be protected from threats such as climate change."
08.17.2015	Ranking Member Stabenow Applauds USDA Investment to Increase Hunting Opportunities in Northern Michigan Monday, August 17, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's nearly $1 million investment to increase hunting and wildlife conservation opportunities in Northern Michigan. This support for the Michigan Department of Natural Resources was made possible by the Natural Resources Conservation Service's Voluntary Public Access and Habitat Incentive Program. This program was extended in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama last spring. "Outdoor recreation is part of our Michigan way of life and contributes billions to our state's economy," said Senator Stabenow. "These funds will give Michigan hunters greater access to Michigan's diverse habitats and forests while encouraging partnerships between landowners and hunters, anglers and other outdoor enthusiasts." The Michigan Department of Natural Resources will receive $951,400 to expand an existing hunting access program into the Northern Lower Peninsula to increase hunting opportunities. This project will also improve wildlife habitats by enhancing grassland, forest, and food plots. Today's announcement is part of a $20 million investment in 15 state agencies to improve wildlife habitat and increase public access for recreational opportunities. A complete list of recipients can be found here. The Voluntary Public Access and Habitat Incentive Program encourages owners to voluntarily allow outdoor enthusiasts greater access to their privately owned land for hunting, bird watching, fishing, and hiking. According to a 2013 study by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, outdoor recreation supports 6.1 million direct jobs across the country and $646 billion in spending each year. Deer hunting alone attracts more than 700,000 hunters to Michigan each year and contributes billions of dollars to the state's economy.
08.14.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Celebrate 80th Anniversary of Social Security Senators Cosponsor Resolution to Commemorate and Protect Program Friday, August 14, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced today that they have cosponsored a resolution commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Social Security Act, which established the Social Security program that provides elderly and disabled Americans, and their spouses and children, with a financial safety net. President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law on August 14, 1935. "Social Security has lifted a generation of senior citizens out of poverty and created economic security for millions of Americans," said Senator Stabenow. "Americans have earned these benefits and should be able to count on them when they retire. As we celebrate this important anniversary, I am committed more than ever to continuing the fight to protect and strengthen this critical program for current and future retirees." "Social Security has helped reduce poverty and provide financial security for millions of Americans, whether they are retirees leaving the workforce, disabled Americans who can no longer work or children whose parents have died," said Senator Peters. "I'm honored to help celebrate the 80th anniversary of this essential safety net program, and I will continue working to protect and strengthen Social Security so that it can help support future generations of Americans, including our most vulnerable citizens." Social Security offers two types of essential benefits-retirement benefits and disability benefits-that are earned by workers paying Social Security taxes on their wages. Nine out of ten Americans age 65 and older receive modest benefits that help provide financial security in retirement. The average retirement benefit is $1,300 per month and the average disability benefit is $1,200 per month. In 2014, more than 48 million Americans received retirement and survivors benefits, and 11 million received disability benefits. Michigan is home to more than 2 million beneficiaries. The resolution urges Congress to protect and strengthen Social Security so it can continue delivering benefits that provide a safety net for workers and their families, and to ensure that the program remains solvent past its currently projected shortfall in 2034. To read the resolution, click here. ###
08.14.2015	Ranking Member Stabenow Applauds USDA Investment to Reduce Algae Blooms in Lake Erie Friday, August 14, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's $5 million investment to help farmers stop harmful algae blooms from forming and expanding in Lake Erie. The funding, provided through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), will help farmers in Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana take steps to help prevent phosphorous and nitrogen runoff into the Western Lake Erie Basin. This announcement comes two weeks after Senator Stabenow led a letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack asking him to continue efforts to address these blooms and help improve water quality in the watershed. "No one understands the importance of clean water like our farmers and producers," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "That's why this investment is so important. While this problem cannot be solved overnight, by taking proactive steps now to manage runoff, we can begin to help prevent future blooms in Lake Erie and other parts of the Great Lakes and its watersheds. I am grateful that the Secretary acted swiftly on our request for these additional funds and I will continue working with our farmers and producers, as well as conservation groups and other partners, to improve the health of our lakes." According to USDA, the funding will be awarded to the three states in the Western Lake Erie Basin with Michigan receiving $500,000, Ohio receiving $3,000,000, and Indiana receiving $1,500,000. The funding will be used to help farmers plant cover crops, add gypsum to soil, implement conservation tillage or no-till systems on crop fields, install agricultural drainage water management systems, and implement nutrient management plans. Today's announcement builds off of the work already being done to help the federal government, states, local partners, and farmers put in place long-term approaches to improve water quality. Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow announced $17.5 million for the Western Lake Erie Basin through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, which was created by the 2014 Farm Bill. Through this initiative, the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is leading more than 40 local partners in helping farmers implement conservation practices to reduce phosphorus and sediment runoff into Lake Erie. The Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), which was reauthorized by Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, provides farmers and ranchers assistance to implement conservation practices. Since 2009, USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service has invested more than $57 million in the Lake Erie Basin through Farm Bill programs, helping to ensure our families have safe, reliable drinking water.
08.13.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Battle Creek Fire Department Thursday, August 13, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $96,330 for the Battle Creek Fire Department in Calhoun County. This grant is awarded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Battle Creek Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "It is vital that first responders have the necessary equipment to protect themselves when responding to emergency situations," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding, which will help ensure that Battle Creek firefighters have the resources needed to continue making our neighborhoods safer places to work and raise a family." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.13.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Investment in Delta County Airport Thursday, August 13, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $476,900 grant for Delta County Airport in Escanaba from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The grant will help the airport rehabilitate its runway, acquire a handicap passenger lift device, and update markings on two taxiways. "This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting the Delta County Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Many travelers rely on Delta County Airport for safe travel to and from the Upper Peninsula," Senator Peters said. "I am pleased to announce this funding, which will make important infrastructure updates to Delta County Airport and help foster economic growth in the region." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
08.13.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $1.1 Million for Three Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, August 13, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1,106,116 for three fire departments in Southeast Michigan. This support, which is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety programs, will go to the Detroit Fire Department, Dearborn Fire Department, and Lyon Township Fire Department. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help make sure Southeast Michigan fire departments have the resources and training they need to answer the call in an emergency." "When emergencies strike, it is our first responders that are on the front lines protecting our communities," Senator Peters said. "This funding will help first responders in Detroit, Dearborn, and Lyon Township respond to emergencies safely and efficiently and help keep our neighborhoods safe." The Detroit Fire Department will receive $999,791 for a mobile fire burn and tactical operations training simulator, which will be used to train firefighters in Detroit, Hamtramck, and Highland Park. Dearborn Fire Department will receive $69,753 for fire prevention and the Lyon Township Fire Department will receive $36,572 for operations and safety. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant and Fire Prevention and Safety programs are part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively.
08.13.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Investment in MBS International Airport Thursday, August 13, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $748,175 grant for MBS International Airport in Bay County from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The grant will help the airport rehabilitate the concrete of its apron, the area of the airport where planes are parked. "This investment will make travelling to and from the Great Lakes Bay region safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting the MBS International Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Ensuring that Michigan airports have updated infrastructure is important for securing safe air travel," Senator Peters said. "I am pleased to announce this investment in MBS International Airport, which will encourage economic development." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
08.12.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Grant to Protect Coastal Land in Petoskey Wednesday, August 12, 2015 Michigan's U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $205,000 grant to the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and the Michigan Department of Natural Resources to acquire 6.32 acres of coastal dune and shoreline habitat to be added the Petoskey State Park for conservation and public use. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This support will help protect miles of Lake Michigan shoreline and expand Petoskey State Park, making it an even greater place for families to visit." "The Great Lakes are a vital part of Michigan's tourism industry and economy, and we must ensure that these treasured natural resources are protected for recreation and tourism in the future," said Senator Peters, a member of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This award will help ensure that our coastal land is preserved for visitors to enjoy for years to come." The Petoskey State Park provides public access to Lake Michigan for recreational activities, and contains the Little Traverse Wheelway multi-use recreational trail. The land being added to the park includes 1,400 feet of undeveloped Lake Michigan Shoreline, which will extend the park's uninterrupted natural coastal dune and shoreline to 7,300 feet. The additional land will be managed as parkland for conservation and public recreational use. The grant comes through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program (CELCP), which provides funds to states to purchase and protect threatened coastal land, habitats, wildlife and recreation.
08.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support to Help Mid Michigan Community College Students Graduate Tuesday, August 11, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $219,021 to give Mid Michigan Community College students, many of whom are the first in their family to go to college, coaching and skill development so they have a better shot at graduating. This support is available through the Department of Education's TRIO Student Support Services Program, which helps low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities graduate college. "Students who work hard and are accepted to college deserve every opportunity to succeed," said Stabenow. "Thanks to today's announcement, more Mid Michigan Community College students will get tutoring, financial aid counseling, and other support they need to finish school." "Higher education is a pathway to economic opportunity and a strong future, and we must ensure that the dream of completing a degree is within reach for Michigan students," Peters said. "This support will help more students at Mid Michigan Community College successfully finish their programs and start their careers." Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of making sure that all students who work hard to get into college are given tools and resources to succeed. In April, Senator Stabenow introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, which guarantees two years of Pell Grants for qualifying middle school students to help boost college enrollment and college completion rates. Increasing higher education access and affordability for all Michiganders is a top priority for Senator Peters. Senator Peters introduced the bipartisan FAIR Student Credit Act to help private student loan borrowers rehabilitate defaulted loans and remove the default from their credit report after making a series of on-time payments. Earlier this year, he also helped introduce the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, legislation to allow borrowers with outstanding student loan debt to refinance at lower interest rates available to new borrowers.
08.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support to Help Eastern Michigan University Students Graduate Tuesday, August 11, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $366,640 to give Eastern Michigan University students, many of whom are the first in their family to go to college, coaching and skill development so they have a better shot at graduating. A portion of this support, which is available through the Department of Education's TRIO Student Support Services Program, will specifically help the university meet the needs of veterans. The TRIO Student Support Services Program helps low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities graduate college. "Students who work hard and are accepted to college deserve every opportunity to succeed," said Stabenow. "Thanks to today's announcement, more Eastern Michigan University students - including veterans - will get tutoring, financial aid counseling, and other support they need to finish school." "Higher education is a pathway to economic opportunity and a strong future, and we must ensure that the dream of completing a degree is within reach for Michigan students-especially our veterans who have served our country and need our support as their return to civilian life," Peters said. "This assistance will help Eastern Michigan University create a program to meet the unique needs of student veterans, as well as work with low-income and first generation college students to help them successfully finish their programs and start their careers." Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of making sure that all students who work hard to get into college are given tools and resources to succeed. In April, Senator Stabenow introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, which guarantees two years of Pell Grants for qualifying middle school students to help boost college enrollment and college completion rates. Increasing higher education access and affordability for all Michiganders is a top priority for Senator Peters. Senator Peters introduced the bipartisan FAIR Student Credit Act to help private student loan borrowers rehabilitate defaulted loans and remove the default from their credit report after making a series of on-time payments. Earlier this year, he also helped introduce the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, legislation to allow borrowers with outstanding student loan debt to refinance at lower interest rates available to new borrowers.
08.10.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Stop Nuclear Waste by Our Lakes Act Monday, August 10, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced legislation to require the State Department to invoke the Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909 and mandate that the International Joint Commission (IJC) study the risks to the Great Lakes from the proposed Canadian nuclear waste site on Lake Huron. The Stop Nuclear Waste by Our Lakes Act would also require the State Department to undertake negotiations with the Government of Canada to wait for the study results before approving any waste site located on the Great Lakes. Senator Gary Peters is cosponsoring the legislation in the Senate and Congressman Dan Kildee is introducing companion legislation in the U.S. House. Sen. Stabenow announced her legislation in Detroit during the first of a series of statewide meetings with community leaders and stakeholders on efforts to protect our Great Lakes and waterways. "Our Great Lakes face many tough challenges," said Senator Stabenow. "This treaty provides an important mechanism for studying and resolving disputes with Canada over our shared waters. Given what is at stake, invoking this treaty to require a thorough review by the International Joint Commission and a process to resolve this critical issue is a reasonable solution." "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's way of life, supporting our vital shipping and tourism industries, and we must ensure that Michigan's concerns are taken into consideration," said Senator Peters. "I'm proud to help introduce this legislation that will give the United States a greater say in determining how this nuclear waste site could impact our environment and our economy. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Stabenow and Congressman Kildee to protect our Great Lakes for generations to come." "Canada's plan to permanently store nuclear waste on the shores of Lake Huron is an unnecessary threat to both the U.S. and Canada's shared water resources," Congressman Kildee said. "Invoking the Waters Treaty is the latest action to protect our Great Lakes and to ensure that a thorough review is done in order to know all of the risks associated with this plan. The Great Lakes are the world's largest freshwater body source and we must act to protect them from harm, whether from invasive species or nuclear waste, now and for future generations." Senator Stabenow is working on Great Lakes issues in a number of roles - as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force, as a leader of Michigan's Congressional delegation and as Ranking Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. She is meeting with Michigan stakeholders to discuss threats to our Great Lakes including nuclear waste, algae blooms, pipeline safety, invasive species, microbeads, harbor maintenance, and sufficient funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Background on the Stop Nuclear Waste by Our Lakes Act: The U.S. and Canada are parties to the Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909, which provides mechanisms for resolving disputes over transboundary waters -- including issues related to water quality, water levels, and ecological health of the Great Lakes. Articles IX and X of the treaty outline actions the U.S. or Canada may take when questions or differences about the shared waters arise. Article IX enables either country to request an IJC study, while Article X provides a binding mechanism for studying and resolving a dispute. The Stop Nuclear Waste by Our Lakes Act would require the State Department to invoke Article IX of the Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909 and require the IJC to study the risks to the Great Lakes from the proposed Deep Geologic Repository in Kincardine, Ontario. The bill would require the State Department to urge the Canadian Government to wait for the study to be completed before rendering the decision. The Stop Nuclear Waste by Our Lakes Act also requires the State Department to invoke Article X and involve the IJC in the event the Canadians select a site for high-grade nuclear waste storage in the Great Lakes Basin. The bill also requires the Secretary of State to undertake negotiations with the Government of Canada to agree to bring the case to the IJC under Article X. Ontario Power Generation has proposed to build a permanent repository for nuclear waste less than a mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. This close proximity to the lake, Senator Stabenow argues, could be disastrous if an accidental spill were ever to occur. Over 40 million people in Canada and the United States get their drinking water from the Great Lakes and the highly toxic waste could take tens of thousands of years to decompose to safe levels. In April, Senators Stabenow and Peters introduced a U.S. Senate resolution that urged the President and Secretary of State to work with their counterparts to prevent a permanent nuclear waste repository from being built within the Great Lakes Basin. The measure is a companion resolution to one introduced by Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) in the U.S. House.
08.10.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $1.5 Million for Cherry Capital Airport Monday, August 10, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1,475,900 for Cherry Capital Airport in Traverse City. The grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation and will help the airport construct a taxiway, rehabilitate its runway and install additional markings to help prevent accidents. "This investment will make travelling to and from Northern Michigan safer and more efficient," said Stabenow. "By supporting the Cherry Capital Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Many travelers rely on Cherry Capital Airport for travel to and from Northern Michigan for both business and tourism," Peters said. "This funding will ensure that the necessary infrastructure improvements are made to facilitate safe travel to the region, encouraging further economic development." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
08.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Funding for Cass River Watershed Thursday, August 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, and Gary Peters today announced a $30,000 allocation from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative for Saginaw Bay Resource, Conservation and Development to stabilize stream banks in the lower Cass River watershed. This watershed runs into the Saginaw River and Lake Huron. This Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding, which is administered by the Great Lakes Commission and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation Service, will be used to help reduce stream bank erosion, which degrades fish habitats and increases phosphorous levels. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment will help Saginaw Bay Resource, Conservation and Development protect the Cass River and all of our Great Lakes and waterways. Additionally, today's announcement builds off the work already being done in the Saginaw Bay Watershed through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program." "When phosphorus runoff and sediments pollute Michigan's waterways and our Great Lakes, it can causes serious economic and environmental damage," said Senator Peters, member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This grant from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative will support local solutions to combat these threats and improve the health of the Cass River and Saginaw Bay." The support will go towards the "Cass River Steam Bank Stabilization and Fish Habitat" project. This project will identify stream banks that are at risk of erosion and work with community members to address pollution and other watershed issues. Senators Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
08.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $97,000 for Berrien Springs Oronoko Fire Department Thursday, August 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Berrien Springs Oronoko Fire Department in Berrien County will receive $97,457 from the Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. The funding will go towards the recruitment and retention of first responders. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Oronoko Township Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." "When emergencies strike, it is our first responders who are on the front lines protecting communities from harm," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help ensure that there the Berrien Springs Oronoko Fire Department has the necessary staffing level of firefighters safeguarding neighborhoods." The SAFER program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Management Agency (FEMA) and works to strengthen communities' ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation's overall level of preparedness, including maintaining 24-hour staffing. Today's award is part of nearly $340 million in fiscal year 2014 awarded directly to fire departments and volunteer support groups to expand the number of firefighters available for emergency response.
08.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Over $180,000 for Trenton Fire Department Thursday, August 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Trenton Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $180,662 in funding that can be used for professional training, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. The funds come from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Trenton Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "It is critical the Michigan's firefighters in the line of duty have access to the proper equipment and protective gear to keep their communities safe," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help ensure that first responders in Trenton have the resources needed to continue making our communities safe places to live and work." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. During FY 2014, approximately $305.4 million in grants will be rewarded. Since 2001, AFG has awarded nearly $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations for equipment, training, and emergency vehicles.
08.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Support for Seven Michigan Projects to Protect, Restore Great Lakes Habitats Thursday, August 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded the announcement that seven projects in Michigan will receive $2.3 million to restore coastal wetland habitats and protect water quality in the Great Lakes region. This funding, which is administered to the Sustain Our Great Lakes program by the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation, will be used to reduce sediment runoff, control invasive species, and protect and restore wetland habitats. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment is critical to the health and preservation of our waterways and wildlife habitats and will help make sure our Lakes remain clean and healthy for generations to come." "Restoring and enhancing the Great Lakes is a boost for Michigan's environment, helping to ensure we can protect this ecological treasure and economic engine for the next generation to enjoy," said Senator Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This funding will support ongoing efforts to restore habitats and protect fish and wildlife in Michigan's waterways, underscoring the importance of public-private partnerships like Sustain Our Great Lakes that invest in improving the health of this critical ecosystem." Sustain Our Great Lakes is a public-private partnership that supports habitat restoration throughout the Great Lakes region. Much of the program's funding comes through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. This funding is part of $5.7 million announced for 20 projects across the Great Lakes region. Michigan will receive the following awards: • Conservation Resource Alliance will remove 23 passage barriers, stabilize 1,000 feet of stream bank, and install woody habitat structures along 2,400 feet of stream in four northern Michigan watersheds ($500,000) • Huron Pines will restore more than 350 acres of wetland and shoreline habitat by controlling invasive species, planting native buffers, and reconnecting upland and wetland habitat complexes ($115,000) • Huron Pines will replace five road-stream crossings, install in-stream habitat structures, and implement agricultural conservation practices in the Au Gres River Watershed ($235,000) • The Nature Conservancy will restore 65 acres of coastal wetlands as part of a larger effort to improve 946 acres of wetland habitat at Erie Marsh Preserve along western Lake Erie ($881,628) • The Mason-Lake Conservation District will restore a former log-roll site and replace three failing road-stream crossings along the Pere Marquette River and its tributaries to enhance and reconnect 14 stream miles ($424,888) • The Manistee County Government will remove the final passage barrier along Arquilla Creek to restore stream function, improve aquatic habitat, and reconnect three stream miles ($90,000) • The Oceana County Road Commission will replace a failing culvert to improve connectivity and reduce sediment inputs along the North Branch of the White River ($70,000)
08.06.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Great Lakes Investment to Reduce Algae Blooms in Lake Erie Thursday, August 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative's $113,126 investment to reduce nutrient, phosphorous, and nitrogen runoff, which are major contributors to the growth of harmful algae blooms. This support, which comes through the Great Lakes Commission and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation Service, will help the Hillsdale Conservation District lessen runoff into the St. Joseph River, which connects to Lake Erie. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment will help the Hillsdale Conservation District partner with farmers to protect the St. Joseph River and all of our Great Lakes and waterways. Additionally, today's announcement builds off the work already being done to prevent algae blooms in Lake Erie thanks to the Regional Conservation Partnership Program." "When phosphorus runoff and sediments pollute Michigan's waterways and our Great Lakes, it can causes serious economic and environmental damage," said Senator Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This grant from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative will support local solutions to combat these threats and improve the health of the St. Joseph River and Lake Erie." The support will go towards the "Phosphorus Reduction of the St. Joseph River/Lake Erie" project. This project will help the Hillsdale Conservation District work with farmers to design and put in place conservation practices like planting cover crops, which help prevent phosphorous and nitrogen runoff into Michigan's lakes, rivers, and streams. Senators Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. Just last week, Senator Stabenow urged the Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to encourage states, businesses, universities, and organizations to continue efforts to improve water quality in the Western Lake Erie Basin.
08.05.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce Bill to Recognize Historical Great Lakes Areas as National Marine Sanctuaries Wednesday, August 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today introduced bipartisan legislation to recognize historically significant underwater areas in the Great Lakes as National Marine Sanctuaries, which would increase tourism and boost Michigan's economy. The Great Lakes Maritime Heritage Assessment Act would build on the success of Thunder Bay in Alpena, which was designated in 2000 as the only freshwater marine sanctuary in the country. More than 90,000 people visited Thunder Bay last year alone, adding millions of dollars to Michigan's economy. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our Michigan way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "The Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary has attracted families and divers from across the state and throughout the world to discover and explore our rich maritime heritage. This legislation will allow more areas in the Great Lakes to be recognized as sanctuaries, which will bring new visitors to Michigan and help preserve our national treasures for future generations." "Tourism in the Great Lakes is vital to Michigan's economy, and it's critical that we continue to protect our state's treasured natural resources for many years to come," said Senator Peters, Member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "Designating more areas in the Great Lakes as sanctuaries will build on the success of Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary to bring more families, divers and explorers to see Michigan's maritime history firsthand. I'm proud to join Senator Stabenow to introduce this bill that will boost our tourism industry and support local economic development across Michigan." "The Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary has had a profoundly positive economic impact on the Alpena area and the Northeast Michigan region," said Jim Klarich, Alpena Area Chamber of Commerce Executive Director of Economic Development. "The Sanctuary has introduced our maritime heritage to hundreds of thousands of visitors and is a catalyst in driving academic partnerships while embracing and driving economic vitality." The Great Lakes Maritime Heritage Assessment Act would direct the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to recommend the designation of national marine sanctuaries in the Great Lakes. Marine sanctuaries provide significant educational opportunities and economic development in the regions where they are located. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) is also an original co-sponsor of this bill.
07.31.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Small Business Access to Capital Act Friday, July 31, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015, which will reauthorize and improve the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) to help Michigan small businesses grow and create jobs. The legislation builds on the successful SSBCI initiative that both lawmakers championed in the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010. SSBCI funds the Michigan Economic Development Corporation and other state-led lending programs that leverage private financing to help small businesses access the capital they need. Senators Stabenow and Peters announced the Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 during a press conference with Tammy Tedesco, owner of the Detroit catering company Edibles Rex. Thanks to SSBCI, Tammy was able to secure a $1.8 million small business loan in 2013 to expand operations and hire new employees. She plans to open a second location in the vacant Cattleman's building in Detroit's Eastern Market district next summer. "Small businesses create the majority of new jobs, and when small business owners like Tammy can access capital, they can expand their businesses and keep the economy growing," Senator Stabenow said. "I'm pleased to be joining Senator Peters to build on this successful program that has helped Michigan small businesses and manufacturers succeed." "There are over 856,000 small businesses in Michigan alone, and it is vital that they have the resources needed to compete, expand, and give back to their communities, just as Edibles Rex is doing here in Detroit," said Senator Peters. "I'm glad to partner with Senator Stabenow to introduce legislation that will further expand lending and boost Michigan small businesses as the backbone of our economy." "Thanks to customer demand and steady growth, Edibles Rex needs to open a second location to keep our business growing," Tammy Tedesco, Owner of Edibles Rex said. "This loan will help us open a new cooperative kitchen to test new recipes, help other food manufacturers, and hire additional staff. I want to thank Senators Stabenow and Peters for authoring this legislation to help Michigan small business owners." Michigan has exhausted all SSBCI federal funding, expending over $85 million to date that has leveraged a total investment of nearly $450 million including private capital. This investment has helped businesses create or retain over 9,000 jobs across the state. MEDC will be able to continue its SSBCI lending programs using recycled federal funds from paid back loans and state funding but will exhaust all remaining funding by next year. Overall, SSBCI programs have leveraged over $7 dollars in private funds for every $1 dollar of federal funding. The Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2015 builds on the initial program's success by providing an additional $500 million in formula funds to all states based on the 2010 law. Michigan would receive over $26 million in new formula funding-more than every state except Florida and California. The bill will also create a new, competitive $1 billion pool of funding for states that have already capitalized on funding from the 2010 program.
07.31.2015	Senators Stabenow, Shaheen, Peters Introduce Small Business Access to Capital Act Friday, July 31, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act, which will reauthorize and improve the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) to help small businesses grow and create jobs. The legislation builds on the successful SSBCI initiative created in the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, which has made over $1 billion available to help small businesses across the country access capital. For years, Senators Stabenow, Shaheen, and Peters have led the fight to make sure small businesses have access to opportunities that lead to a stronger economy. "Small businesses create the majority of new jobs, and when small business owners can access capital, they can expand their businesses and keep the economy growing," Senator Stabenow said. "I'm so pleased to be joining with Senators Shaheen and Peters to build on this successful program that has helped hundreds of small businesses and manufacturers get off the ground or expand." "Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and increasing their access to capital allows them to grow and create jobs." said Senator Shaheen. "This bill strengthens a program that has a proven track record of helping small businesses leverage modest federal funding for much larger investments of private capital." "Small businesses are the backbone of Michigan's economy, and ensuring they have access to the capital they need to survive, compete, and succeed is critical to growing our economy and creating new jobs in Michigan," Senator Peters said. "I was proud to champion SSBCI as a member of the House of Representatives, which has already helped hundreds of Michigan small businesses. This legislation will build on the successes of this program so that small businesses and entrepreneurs can continue doing what they do best - hiring locally and helping their communities thrive." The Small Business Access to Capital Act will help small businesses better access capital for growth and expansion by leveraging billions of dollars in private investments through state-led initiatives funded by the SSBCI. Created as part of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, SSBCI has promoted billions of dollars in private sector small business lending. The bill builds on the initial program's success by providing an additional $500 million in formula funds to all states based on the 2010 law. The newly introduced SSBCI bill will also create a new, competitive $1 billion pool of funding for states that have already capitalized on funding from the 2010 program.
07.31.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $3.3 Million for Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport Friday, July 31, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $3,345,654 for the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport. The grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation and will help the airport rehabilitate its runway, extend its taxiway, install taxiway lighting, and rehabilitate the concrete of its apron, which is the area of an airport where aircraft are parked. "This investment will make travelling to and from West Michigan safer and more efficient," said Stabenow. "By supporting the Kalamazoo Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Upgrading Michigan's transportation infrastructure is critical to creating jobs and expanding growth in our state," Peters said. "This federal funding for the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport will invest in important improvements that will encourage travel and bolster economic development in the region." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
07.31.2015	Senator Stabenow Calls On Agriculture Secretary to Take Immediate Action to Help Improve Water Quality in Lake Erie Friday, July 31, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, and Senators and Committee members Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Joe Donnelly (D-IN) today called on Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to encourage states, businesses, universities, and organizations to work together to help improve water quality in the Western Lake Erie Basin. These partnerships will help stop another algae bloom - like the one contaminated drinking water in Southeast Michigan last summer - from forming and expanding in Lake Erie. Just last week, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration found evidence of a bloom near the Lake Erie Islands, which are about 40 miles off Michigan's coast. The letter reads in part: "In order to address these important issues, we must take comprehensive actions now that fully engage all stakeholders. We recognize that reducing the frequency and magnitude of harmful algal blooms is long-term problem that requires a long-term solution, but that does not reduce the urgency of taking aggressive action in the near-term. No group understands the importance of water and soil more than our nation's farmers and producers. While there is no silver bullet that will resolve this crisis, we know that working together and sharing knowledge will help develop broad strategies capable of making a large impact on the quality of our water." Senator Stabenow has supported programs and research across Michigan that will help prevent these harmful algae blooms and ensure our families have safe, reliable drinking water. Her 2014 Farm Bill is the most significant conservation legislation in generations. Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow announced $17.5 million through the Farm Bill's Regional Conservation Partnership Program to help farmers implement conservation practices to reduce phosphorus and sediment runoff into the western Lake Erie basin and reduce toxic algae blooms. This letter to Secretary Vilsack also requests that the USDA releases additional Environmental Quality Incentive Program funding to aid farmers who want to plant cover crops, which helps prevent phosphorous and nitrogen runoff into Michigan's lakes, rivers, and streams. The full letter to Secretary Vilsack follows. July 31, 2015 The Honorable Thomas J. VilsackSecretaryU.S. Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Ave. SWWashington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack: As members of the Senate Agriculture Committee and authors of the 2014 Farm Bill, we know the importance of agriculture to the economies of Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana. In addition, as Senators representing the three states that comprise the Western Lake Erie Basin (WLEB), we also know the importance of water quality for maintaining our way of life in the Great Lakes region. Unfortunately, scientists and other experts predict that this summer could have the second largest algal bloom on record in Western Lake Erie. And just last week, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) found the first evidence of a bloom off the coasts of several Lake Erie Islands. Considering that 1.5 million jobs are directly connected to the Great Lakes and the fact that millions more rely on Lake Erie for drinking water, our constituents and our economy cannot afford to have disasters on this scale summer after summer. In order to address these important issues, we must take comprehensive actions now that fully engage all stakeholders. We recognize that reducing the frequency and magnitude of harmful algal blooms is long-term problem that requires a long-term solution, but that does not reduce the urgency of taking aggressive action in the near-term. No group understands the importance of water and soil more than our nation's farmers and producers. While there is no silver bullet that will resolve this crisis, we know that working together and sharing knowledge will help develop broad strategies capable of making a large impact on the quality of our water. That is why we made conservation such a focus in the 2014 Farm Bill. The 2014 Farm Bill represents the largest investment yet in the conservation of private working lands critical to maintaining clean water, clean air, wildlife habitats, forests and other natural resources. We expanded the role of partnerships through the new Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP), so that farmers can team with university researchers, the private sector, conservation organizations and all levels of governments to find creative solutions to improving water quality. As the first year of the RCPP kicks off, we recognize the historic investment made by USDA in improving Lake Erie water quality through the Tri-State Lake Erie Phosphorus Reduction Initiative. In addition to RCPP and regular program funding administered by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) and the Farm Services Agency (FSA), we also know that USDA utilizes funding from other federal agencies, including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, to incentivize farmers to adopt voluntary conservation practices in this region. However, we know that these programs cannot be successful in improving water quality without sufficient scale and participation from farmers and ranchers. Our goal is to ensure that our farmers, producers, and landowners remain committed to being part of the long-term solution to this problem, and we want to give them the tools to continue be the best, most productive, stewards of their land. In order ensure the historic investments made through the Farm Bill and other federal initiatives are successful, we ask that USDA identify both short- and long-term strategies for improving water quality in the Western Lake Erie Basin using these programs and your existing authorities. Part of this strategy should ensure that federal programs are coordinated and utilized effectively with robust participation from state and local government, agriculture leaders, and conservation partners. The strategy should also consider ways to partner with the private sector to incorporate and promote the use of new technology, including LiDAR and digital imagery, to help increase the adoption of precision conservation practices. Further, in light of significant rain in large portions of the WLEB that have resulted in tens of thousands of acres going unplanted, we urge you to release additional funds through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) to provide for the planting of cover crops in the region. Last August, USDA worked with producers in Ohio to provide an additional $3 million in EQIP funding to reduce phosphorous and nitrogen runoff. In light of the significant acreage that will go unplanted this growing season, we believe it is imperative for USDA to once again provide additional funds to the FSA and NRCS offices already working in the watershed. We all have a stake in solving this problem, and we look forward to working with you on specific ways we can move forward in the Western Lake Erie Basin.
07.30.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Assistance for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, July 30, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Washington Township Fire Department, Westland Fire Department and Inkster Fire Department will receive funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program. The Washington Township Fire Department will receive $140,394 from the AFG Program to help fund training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. The funding for the Westland Fire Department and Inkster Fire Departments comes from the SAFER Program and will be used for hiring, recruiting, and retaining first responders. The Westland Fire Department will receive $2,314,611, and the Inkster Fire Department will receive $1,819,200. "Firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help make sure our fire departments have the resources they need to answer the call in an emergency." "Our first responders face extremely dangerous situations while working to protect our communities," said Senator Peters. "These resources will help our Southeast Michigan fire departments ensure that we have enough firefighters serving our communities, and that they have the right tools and training to do the job safely." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant AFG Program and the SAFER Program are both administered by the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The purpose of the programs is to ensure that fire departments nationwide are fully staffed and equipped with the best technology to strengthen the Nation's overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards.
07.30.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Over $2 Million for Saginaw Fire Department Thursday, July 30, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded $2,017,145 in assistance for the Saginaw Fire Department to support the recruitment and retention of firefighters. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Saginaw Fire Department make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." "An emergency situation can arise at any time, and we must ensure that we have enough first responders on the job to protect our communities," said Senator Peters. "This funding will help the Saginaw Fire Department remain prepared to respond in an emergency and keep the community and their firefighters safe." "We would like to thank Senators Stabenow and Peters for their continued support of the City of Saginaw and the Saginaw Fire Department," said Saginaw Fire Department Chief Christopher Van Loo. "This SAFER grant is great news for the City of Saginaw and the members of the Saginaw Fire Department. It will prevent the layoff of thirteen firefighters and allow us to continue to staff our four fire stations and provide outstanding fire protection services for the citizens of Saginaw." The SAFER program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Management Agency (FEMA) and works to strengthen communities' ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation's overall level of preparedness, including maintaining 24-hour staffing. Today's award is part of nearly $340 million in fiscal year 2014 awarded directly to fire departments and volunteer support groups to expand the number of firefighters available for emergency response.
07.30.2015	Peters-Alexander-Stabenow Vehicle Innovation Act Advances in Senate Thursday, July 30, 2015 Bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) advanced in the Senate today when it was included in the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2015 approved by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The Vehicle Innovation Act (VIA) promotes investments in research and development of clean vehicle and advanced safety technologies that will create more fuel-efficient vehicles, reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil and support American auto manufacturers. "Michigan has always been a leader in manufacturing, but we can only continue our success against companies on the other side of the world if we invest in new technologies," said Senator Stabenow, senior member on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "Our measure will help manufacturers and suppliers research and develop new and innovative technologies to make the next generation of fuel-efficient vehicles, which will reduce costs at the pump and our dependence on foreign oil." "The cars and trucks of the future will have clean vehicle and safety technologies along with the horsepower and torque we know so well, and we need to make sure that these cutting-edge technologies are developed here in the United States," said Senator Peters. "I was proud to work with Senators Alexander and Stabenow to help advance this bill in committee, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to move it forward in the full Senate. This important legislation will make critical investments in our advanced manufacturing industry to improve our vehicle fleet, create middle class jobs and support American auto manufacturers and suppliers." "This energy research for fuel-efficient cars fits perfectly with Tennessee's expanding auto industry," said Senator Alexander. "Already Alcoa is selling more aluminum to manufacturers for parts and is expanding as it sells more aluminum to auto manufacturers. The Oak Ridge National Laboratory is researching lighter materials and helped to develop a non-destructive technology that checks welds in real time on the production line, dramatically improving manufacturing efficiency." The Vehicle Innovation Act establishes a consistent and consolidated authority for the Department of Energy's Vehicle Technologies Program, which promotes partnerships with public and private sector entities to conduct research and development to improve fuel efficiency in vehicles. This include research and investment in technologies such as hybrids, battery electric vehicles and natural gas-powered vehicles that reduce our dependence on foreign oil, support domestic development of technologies and grow the American advanced manufacturing industry. The legislation also includes provisions to specifically include safety technologies like vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communications systems, which have the potential to dramatically reduce traffic accidents and traffic congestion by allowing cars to communicate with one another and recognize dangers beyond what a vehicle's radar, cameras or other sensors can detect. The legislation authorizes $313.6 million in funding for FY2016, and a four percent increase to each year after that through 2020, providing a consistent growth in funding to keep up with emerging technologies. The bill is supported by a broad coalition of organizations including the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA), the BlueGreen Alliance, the Auto Alliance, the UAW, the League of Conservation Voters, the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club, the American Automotive Policy Council, the Electric Drive Transportation Association, Magna International, Inc., Robert Bosch LLC, the LORD Corporation, Umicore, Bergstrom and NTEA, the Association for the Work Truck Industry. "The Auto Alliance welcomes passage of the Vehicle Innovation Act of 2015 by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee," said Mitch Bainwol, Auto Alliance President & CEO. "Long-term efforts to address our nation's energy security and environmental concerns will require the mass market commercialization of advanced technology and alternative fuel vehicles. Automakers and our suppliers are focused on the introduction and deployment of these fuel-efficient vehicles. This legislation will help support these ongoing efforts as well as the research and design of the next generation of fuel-efficient vehicle technologies. We appreciate Sens. Peters, Stabenow and Alexander for their hard work on this important issue." "The Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) applauds the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee for today's passage of the Vehicle Innovation Act," said Steve Handschuh, President and CEO of MEMA. "Motor vehicle parts manufacturers are focused on the research, development and deployment of technologies that will assist vehicle manufacturers to meet future fuel efficiency and emissions requirements. Sens. Peters, Alexander and Stabenow are to be commended for their leadership in moving this critical legislation through the committee process." "NTEA - The Association for the Work Truck Industry is very pleased to see the language of the Vehicle Innovation Act included in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee's comprehensive legislation," said NTEA Executive Director Steve Carey. "NTEA thanks Senators Peters, Alexander and Stabenow for recognizing the energy saving and fuel efficiency progress generated by the work truck industry and increasing the support for those advances, which are critical to the nation's economy." Peters is a strong supporter of advanced vehicle technologies. In May, he introduced the Vehicle-to-Infrastructure Safety Technology Investment Flexibility Act of 2015 to allow states to use existing federal highway and surface transportation funds to invest in vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communications technology. That legislation is included in the federal highway bill currently being debated in the Senate. He also recently created the bipartisan Smart Transportation Caucus to focus on encourage the development and deployment of next-generation transportation technologies to improve safety and efficiency.
07.28.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $3.4 Million for Great Lakes Habitat Restoration Tuesday, July 28, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Great Lakes Commission to lead a regional partnership focusing on habitat restoration in the Great Lakes. The partnership is comprised of the Great Lakes Commission and state and local agencies. The Commission will receive $3,482,549 through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life," said Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This investment will help regional partners work together to protect our Great Lakes, waterways, and wildlife habitats." "Habitat restoration is critical to making sure the world's largest freshwater system is healthy and able to support the industries that drive Michigan's economy," Peters said. "This support from NOAA will boost ongoing efforts to preserve the Great Lakes so we can protect this ecological treasure for future generations." This award will go towards the ongoing Little Rapids Restoration project in Sault Ste. Marie. This support will help continue work already underway through the U.S. Great Lakes Areas of Concern program and the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
07.28.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce $2.5 Million for Michigan Coastal Management Program Tuesday, July 28, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for Michigan's Department of Environmental Quality Office of the Great Lakes to protect, restore and develop coastal ecosystems and communities. The Michigan Coastal Management Program, housed in the Office of the Great Lakes, will receive more than $2,516,000 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "The Great Lakes are part of who we are and our way of life," said Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. "Michigan is home to over 3,100 miles of Great Lakes shoreline that attract tourists from across the country to our great outdoors, contributing billions to our economy. This investment will help conserve our beautiful natural resources for generations to come." "Tourism driven by the Great Lakes support jobs and economic growth across Michigan, and we need to ensure our thousands of miles of shoreline are safe and clean for families to enjoy," Peters said. "Whether it's supporting beach clean-up efforts or making coastal environments more resilient, these funds for the Coastal Zone Management Program will improve our ongoing efforts to protect the Great Lakes." Michigan's Department of Environmental Quality will administer the federal grant, which will leverage over $1.9 million in state and local funds. The funds will assist the Michigan Coastal Management Program with its efforts to mitigate coastal hazards, conserve and restore coastal habitat, and protect coastal water quality. Some specific projects include helping communities put practices in place to protect their coastlines, supporting new initiatives to reduce beach litter and pollution, and creating short documentaries to help the public understand and appreciate Michigan coastal zones. The National Coastal Zone Management Program administered by NOAA is a voluntary federal-state partnership that provides grants to states with approved coastal zone management plans for the preservation, protection, restoration, and enhancement of coastal zone areas, including those in the Great Lakes region.
07.27.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Seniors in St. Clair Shores Monday, July 27, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the City of St. Clair Shores to renovate and expand its Senior Activity Center, which offers programs and activities to people 50 and over. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and will be used to expand the fitness center by approximately 2,000 square feet and renovate the kitchen space to include a small coffee shop, among other improvements. This $1,760,000 loan will also be used to add a partially-covered patio and renovate offices and common areas. "This center is an important resource for seniors in St. Clair Shores who are staying active and engaged in the community," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement will help make sure the Senior Activity Center can continue to serve as a welcoming place that brings community members together." "The St. Clair Shores Senior Center helps provide a strong sense of community for our seniors, which in turn helps them live healthier and happier lives," Senator Peters said. "This loan will allow the Senior Center to make important renovations, including a new fitness center and new kitchen, to ensure they can continue to provide the great activities, services and sense of community that help St. Clair Shores seniors lead healthy, active lives." "This loan will result in a much-needed improvement to our Senior Activity Center," said St. Clair Shores Mayor Kip Walby. "Senators Stabenow and Peters extended much effort on our behalf to assist in securing the $1.76M loan award. Congratulations to our senior citizens who will most certainly enjoy all the benefits associated with the upcoming new and improved Senior Activity Facility."
07.24.2015	Senator Stabenow Tours Rec Boat Holdings in Cadillac Friday, July 24, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-chair of Senate Manufacturing Caucus and Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force visited Rec Boat Holdings in Cadillac on July 24. Rec Boat Holdings, which manufactures Four Winns, Glastron, and Wellcraft fiberglass powerboats in Cadillac, employs nearly 500 people and sells their products to approximately 200 dealers across North America. Rec Boat Holdings is a member of the Cadillac Area Industrial Group.
07.24.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Win Fight to Preserve Funds to Keep Michigan Cities, Neighborhoods Safe Friday, July 24, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today made the following statement regarding the commitment to remove a provision in the U.S. Senate's transportation bill that would have eliminated $1.7 billion from the U.S. Department of Treasury's Hardest Hit Fund. The Hardest Hit Fund allows cities across the country to invest in blight removal efforts and help homeowners. If this provision had passed, funding for blight removal in cities throughout Michigan would have been significantly cut. "I'm pleased to say that there is a commitment from Senate Republican leadership to remove a provision that would have taken money away from Michigan families and neighborhoods to pay for a federal highway bill," said Senator Stabenow. "It is outrageous to expect that cities all across Michigan would lose critical funds they were promised and may have already spent. Fixing our roads and bridges is essential, but not at the expense of making our neighborhoods safer." "I believe Congress must pass a long-term highway bill, but Michigan communities trying to rebuild their neighborhoods should not have to bear the burden of fixing America's infrastructure," Senator Peters said. "The Hardest Hit Fund have helped cities across Michigan increase safety and maintain home values, in turn leading to greater private investment in their communities. I strongly oppose the provision in the highway bill cutting the Hardest Hit Fund and was proud to work with Senator Stabenow and my colleagues in the Senate to ensure Michigan cities that are bouncing back from the economic crisis are not at a disadvantage as they work to revitalize their neighborhoods." Cities at risk of losing blight removal funds include Detroit, Adrian, Ecorse, Flint, Grand Rapids, Hamtramck, Highland Park, Inkster, Ironwood, Jackson, Lansing, Muskegon Heights, Pontiac, Port Huron, River Rouge, and Saginaw.
07.23.2015	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bipartisan Legislation Addressing Country-of-Origin Labeling Thursday, July 23, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and John Hoeven (R-ND) today introduced new bipartisan legislation to address country-of-origin labeling following the World Trade Organization ruling in May 2015. According to the WTO's finding, the United States' mandatory label must be reformed to honor existing trade relations with Canada and Mexico. As a result, Stabenow and Hoeven introduced the Voluntary Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) and Trade Enhancement Act of 2015 that would comply with the WTO ruling by removing certain meat products from the mandatory labeling program. Additionally, this legislation will put in place a voluntary label to help empower consumers by ensuring they have accessible to products labeled "Product of the U.S." "Michigan farmers and ranchers take pride in raising the world's safest and most affordable foods, and parents in Michigan want to know as much as possible about what their kids are eating," said Stabenow. "If consumers in Canada have the right to know where their food comes from through a voluntary labeling system, then American consumers should have the same. This bill is a path forward and will encourage international trade while giving families peace of mind." The Stabenow-Hoeven plan would establish a voluntary "Product of the U.S." label for beef, pork, chicken, and ground meat products that are from animals born, raised, and harvested in the United States. Stabenow is a long-time supporter of COOL and has lead the effort in the Senate to maintain a country-of-origin label in the wake of the WTO decision. In May, the WTO ruled for the fourth, and final, time that the United States' mandatory COOL law violates international trade agreements. As a result of the WTO's ruling, Canada and Mexico have the ability to impose retaliatory sanctions and tariffs if the U.S. fails to address the current COOL law. Senator Stabenow's bill would help prevent these tariffs by repealing the mandatory label, while also creating a voluntary option to help consumers who want to know where their food is coming from. The Voluntary Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) Act of 2015 is co-sponsored by Senators Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), John Thune (R-SD), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Mike Enzi (R-WY).
07.23.2015	Ranking Member Stabenow Applauds Expansion of Crop Insurance Options for Michigan Fruit Growers Thursday, July 23, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded an announcement by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) providing additional crop insurance options to fruit and nut producers. The announcement, made possible by Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, expands the Supplemental Coverage Option (SCO) program to additional producers in select counties for the 2016 year. "No farmer should go out of business because of bad weather or other disasters," Stabenow said. "That's why I fought for these changes in the Farm Bill. In places like Michigan, fruit production is a major component of our state's farm economy. For too long, these producers did not have access to the same crop insurance tools as traditional row crops. With today's announcement, we are closing that gap and providing the same risk management tools to all farmers and producers." In Michigan, the Supplemental Coverage Option will be available to apple, blueberry, grape, and peach producers in certain counties in 2016. A list of additional crop insurance options available by county can be found here.
07.23.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Oronoko Township Fire Department Thursday, July 23, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $29,406 for the Berrien Springs/Oronoko Township Fire Department in Berrien County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Oronoko Township Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "Our first responders work hard to protect our communities, and we need to ensure they have the right tools and training to do the job safely," Senator Peters said. "This assistance will help the Berrien Springs Oronoko Fire Department get additional safety equipment, supplies and training so they are prepared to respond in dangerous emergency situations and can continue to keep our communities safe." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.22.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Eliminating Funding to Improve Michigan Cities, Neighborhoods Wednesday, July 22, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement regarding the Senate Republican transportation legislation, which would eliminate $1.7 billion from the U.S. Department of Treasury's Hardest Hit Fund and dramatically cut funding for Michigan's blight removal efforts. This cut will affect cities throughout Michigan, including Detroit, Adrian, Ecorse, Flint, Grand Rapids, Hamtramck, Highland Park, Inkster, Ironwood, Jackson, Lansing, Muskegon Heights, Pontiac, Port Huron, River Rouge, and Saginaw. "It is outrageous that Senate Republicans have proposed paying for critical improvements to our roads and bridges by taking away millions of dollars in funding to strengthen our communities and make neighborhoods better places for families to live. This funding is helping remove abandoned homes and dangerous buildings while revitalizing Michigan's businesses and communities. I'm leading the fight to protect the Hardest Hit Fund so our cities aren't handed a bill for money that they were promised and have already spent. This kind of support is making a real difference in the fight to ensure that neighborhoods are strong, safe, and viable places to raise families."
07.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Measure to Protect Homeowners from Higher Taxes Advances in Senate Tuesday, July 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, today praised the Committee's extension of a provision that will ensure that homeowners working with their banks to reduce their mortgage payments will not be hit with a huge tax bill. In addition, the Committee passed her amendment to provide additional certainty to homeowners who might be eligible for this tax relief. This measure, based on Senator Stabenow's Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act introduced earlier this year, was included in the Committee's tax extenders package. This legislation prevents homeowners from being required to pay additional taxes when they receive mortgage principal forgiveness on their homes or sell their homes in what are commonly called "short sales." "Families across the country, including many in Michigan, are faced with having to pay for mortgages that now exceed the value of their home," said Stabenow. "This measure will make sure that families who are willing to work with their lenders will not be forced to pay hundreds or even thousands of dollars in additional income tax when they sell or refinance their home." Today's action would extend through 2015 a provision based on legislation originally authored by Senator Stabenow in 2007. It will also add additional protections authored by Senator Stabenow to ensure that homeowners are eligible for relief as long as the agreement to reduce their mortgage debt is in writing before the date the provision expires. Senator Stabenow led the effort last Congress to extend this provision in the Tax Increase Prevention Act, which extended the tax break through 2014. Declining home prices and rising foreclosure rates have forced many families to sell their homes for less than they paid for them, and sometimes for less than the outstanding debt. The IRS previously taxed any loan forgiveness provided to homeowners as "income," meaning families were paying thousands of dollars in income tax for phantom income that wasn't actual money the family had earned. While the housing market is beginning to recover, short sales and foreclosures continue. More than one in six American homeowners currently have mortgages that are underwater.
07.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Measure to Create Job Opportunities in America’s Hardest-Hit Cities Advances in Senate Tuesday, July 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, today applauded the Committee's passage of an amendment that will help spur economic growth and create job opportunities in cities across the country - including Detroit and other Michigan cities - by improving the Empowerment Zone program. The amendment, based on Senator Stabenow and Senator Roy Blunt's (R-MO) Empowering Jobs Act of 2015, will make the program more effective by expanding the way businesses and local governments can take advantage of their allocations of tax-exempt bonds. Additionally, this legislation eases the requirements on the ways these bonds can be used and encourages more businesses to invest in America's hardest-hit cities. "Today's vote is an important step in bringing economic growth to struggling cities," said Stabenow. "Empowerment Zones are already making a big difference in Detroit, but unnecessary restrictions are preventing some businesses from investing in the city. This measure will encourage growth by allowing more businesses to hire workers and invest in our cities, which will keep moving our country forward." Empowerment Zones were established by Congress in 1994 as a way to boost economic development in particularly struggling cities through tax incentives, grants, and tax-exempt financing. The Empowerment Zone bonds encourage the construction of economic development projects like commercial and manufacturing centers. This amendment will allow the 35 percent in-zone hiring requirement for the bonds to be met by hiring 35 percent of people from distressed Census tracts within the city in which the Empowerment Zone is located.
07.20.2015	Senator Stabenow Attends University of Michigan MCity Grand Opening Monday, July 20, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended the University of Michigan's MCity Grand Opening on July 20. MCity is a new 32-acre testing ground for highly automated vehicles and driverless cars. Senator Stabenow is a long-time supporter of programs to develop new and innovative vehicle technologies to help Michigan manufacturers and businesses compete globally and create new jobs. Research conducted at MCity, which simulates urban and suburban driving environments, will help U-M researchers study groundbreaking connected vehicle technologies before they are tested on actual roads.
07.16.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $700,000 for Fire Departments in Clay Township, Bedford Township Thursday, July 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow today announced that the Clay Township Fire Department in St. Clair County and the Bedford Township Fire Department in Monroe County will receive funding from the Department of Homeland Security to assist in the hiring, recruitment and retention of more firefighters. The Clay Township Fire Department will receive $691,980 for hiring more firefighters, while the Bedford Township Fire Department will receive $6,000 towards the recruitment and retention of first responders. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help the Clay Township and Bedford Fire Departments make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." "First responders are leaders in their communities who play a critical role in keeping our neighborhoods safe," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding which will allow fire departments in Clay Township and Bedford Township to be better prepared when emergencies strike." "Our community will benefit from this grant by reducing overall response times, increase firefighter safety, reduce injuries, increased property conservation and provide a higher level of protection to the citizens of Clay Township and also the surrounding communities," said Clay Township Supervisor Artie Bryson. "This grant will pay for hiring six firefighters that will work 24 hour shifts. The added staff will free up existing firefighters to man duty shifts at Harsens Island Station." The Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, an initiative to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the firefighters they need to protect their communities and improve the nation's overall preparedness. During FY 2014, nearly $340 million was awarded directly to fire departments and volunteer support groups to expand the number of firefighters available.
07.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $1 Million to Help Students in the Upper Peninsula Graduate from College Thursday, July 16, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1.3 million to give Upper Peninsula students, many of whom are the first in their family to go to college, coaching and skill development so they have a better shot at graduating college. This support through the Department of Education's TRIO Student Support Services Program will benefit eligible students at Bay de Noc Community College, Northern Michigan University, Gogebic Community College, Finlandia University, and Bay Mills Community College. "Students who work hard and are accepted to college deserve every opportunity to succeed," said Senator Stabenow. "Thanks to today's announcement, more college students across the Upper Peninsula will get tutoring, financial aid counseling, and other support they need to finish school." "Whether it's improving academic support services or increasing financial resources, this support from the Department of Education will bolster efforts to retain and graduate more students in the Upper Peninsula," Senator Peters said. "Higher education increases economic opportunity and provides a pathway to the middle class, and putting the dream of completing a higher education degree within reach for more Michigan students is critical." Bay de Noc Community College will receive $292,362, Northern Michigan University will receive $300,249, Gogebic Community College will receive $247,580, Finlandia University will receive $286,598, and Bay Mills Community College will receive $247,583. These five colleges are among more than 20 chosen in Michigan this year to receive support like tutoring and financial aid planning assistance through the TRIO Student Support Services Program, which helps low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities graduate college. A full list of projects can be found here. Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of making sure that all students who work hard to get into college are given tools and resources to succeed. In April, Senator Stabenow introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, which guarantees two years of Pell Grants for qualifying middle school students to help boost college enrollment and college completion rates. Increasing higher education access and affordability for all Michiganders is a top priority for Senator Peters. Senator Peters introduced the bipartisan FAIR Student Credit Act to help private student loan borrowers rehabilitate defaulted loans and remove the default from their credit report after making a series of on-time payments. Earlier this year, he also helped introduce the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, legislation to allow borrowers with outstanding student loan debt to refinance at lower interest rates available to new borrowers.
07.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $1 Million to Help Mid-Michigan Students Graduate from College Thursday, July 16, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1.1 million to give Mid-Michigan students, many of whom are the first in their family to go to college, coaching and skill development so they have a better shot at graduating college. This support through the Department of Education's TRIO Student Support Services Program will benefit eligible students at Michigan State University, Adrian College, and Jackson College. "Students who work hard and are accepted to college deserve every opportunity to succeed," said Senator Stabenow. "Thanks to today's announcement, more college students across Mid-Michigan will get tutoring, financial aid counseling, and other support they need to finish school." "Whether it's improving academic support services or increasing financial resources, this support from the Department of Education will bolster efforts to retain and graduate more students in Mid-Michigan," Senator Peters said. "Higher education increases economic opportunity and provides a pathway to the middle class, and putting the dream of completing a higher education degree within reach for more Michigan students is critical." Michigan State University will receive $659,582, Adrian College will receive $284,754, Jackson College will receive $220,000. These three colleges are among more than 20 chosen in Michigan this year to receive support like tutoring and financial aid planning assistance through the TRIO Student Support Services Program, which helps low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities graduate college. A full list of projects can be found here. Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of making sure that all students who work hard to get into college are given tools and resources to succeed. In April, Senator Stabenow introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, which guarantees two years of Pell Grants for qualifying middle school students to help boost college enrollment and college completion rates. Increasing higher education access and affordability for all Michiganders is a top priority for Senator Peters. Senator Peters introduced the bipartisan FAIR Student Credit Act to help private student loan borrowers rehabilitate defaulted loans and remove the default from their credit report after making a series of on-time payments. Earlier this year, he also helped introduce the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, legislation to allow borrowers with outstanding student loan debt to refinance at lower interest rates available to new borrowers.
07.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support to Help Students Graduate from Mott and St. Clair County Community Colleges Thursday, July 16, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $573,331 to give students at Mott and St. Clair County Community Colleges, many of whom are the first in their family to go to college, coaching and skill development so they have a better shot at graduating college. This support comes through the Department of Education's TRIO Student Support Services Program. "Students who work hard and are accepted to college deserve every opportunity to succeed," said Senator Stabenow. "Thanks to today's announcement, more students at Mott and St. Clair County Community Colleges will get tutoring, financial aid counseling, and other support they need to finish school." "Whether it's improving academic support services or increasing financial resources, this support from the Department of Education will bolster efforts to retain and graduate more students in Flint and Port Huron," Senator Peters said. "Higher education increases economic opportunity and provides a pathway to the middle class, and putting the dream of completing a higher education degree within reach for more Michigan students is critical."Mott County Community Colleges will receive $353,331 and St. Clair County Community College will receive $220,000. These two colleges are among more than 20 chosen in Michigan this year to receive support like tutoring and financial aid planning assistance through the TRIO Student Support Services Program, which helps low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities graduate college. A full list of projects can be found here. Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of making sure that all students who work hard to get into college are given tools and resources to succeed. In April, Senator Stabenow introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, which guarantees two years of Pell Grants for qualifying middle school students to help boost college enrollment and college completion rates. Increasing higher education access and affordability for all Michiganders is a top priority for Senator Peters. Senator Peters introduced the bipartisan FAIR Student Credit Act to help private student loan borrowers rehabilitate defaulted loans and remove the default from their credit report after making a series of on-time payments. Earlier this year, he also helped introduce the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, legislation to allow borrowers with outstanding student loan debt to refinance at lower interest rates available to new borrowers.
07.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $1 Million to Help Southeast Michigan Students Graduate from College Thursday, July 16, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $1.1 million to give Southeast Michigan students, many of whom are the first in their family to go to college, coaching and skill development so they have a better shot at graduating college. This support through the Department of Education's TRIO Student Support Services Program will benefit eligible students at Wayne County Community College District, University of Detroit Mercy, Siena Heights University, and Madonna University. "Students who work hard and are accepted to college deserve every opportunity to succeed," said Senator Stabenow. "Thanks to today's announcement, more college students across Southeast Michigan will get tutoring, financial aid counseling, and other support they need to finish school." "Whether it's improving academic support services or increasing financial resources, this support from the Department of Education will bolster efforts to retain and graduate more students in Southeast Michigan," Senator Peters said. "Higher education increases economic opportunity and provides a pathway to the middle class, and putting the dream of completing a higher education degree within reach for more Michigan students is critical." Wayne County Community College District will receive $388,500, University of Detroit Mercy will receive $219,263, Siena Heights University will receive $284,219, and Madonna University will receive $244,120. These four colleges are among more than 20 chosen in Michigan this year to receive support like tutoring and financial aid planning assistance through the TRIO Student Support Services Program, which helps low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities graduate college. A full list of projects can be found here. Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of making sure that all students who work hard to get into college are given tools and resources to succeed. In April, Senator Stabenow introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, which guarantees two years of Pell Grants for qualifying middle school students to help boost college enrollment and college completion rates. Increasing higher education access and affordability for all Michiganders is a top priority for Senator Peters. Senator Peters introduced the bipartisan FAIR Student Credit Act to help private student loan borrowers rehabilitate defaulted loans and remove the default from their credit report after making a series of on-time payments. Earlier this year, he also helped introduce the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, legislation to allow borrowers with outstanding student loan debt to refinance at lower interest rates available to new borrowers.
07.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $3 Million to Help West Michigan Students Graduate from College Thursday, July 16, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced more than $3 million to give West Michigan students, many of whom are the first in their family to go to college, coaching and skill development so they have a better shot at graduating college. This support through the Department of Education's TRIO Student Support Services Program will benefit eligible students at eight West Michigan colleges. "Students who work hard and are accepted to college deserve every opportunity to succeed," said Senator Stabenow. "Thanks to today's announcement, more college students across West Michigan will get tutoring, financial aid counseling, and other support they need to finish school." "Whether it's improving academic support services or increasing financial resources, this support from the Department of Education will bolster efforts to retain and graduate more students in Western Michigan," Senator Peters said. "Higher education increases economic opportunity and provides a pathway to the middle class, and putting the dream of completing a higher education degree within reach for more Michigan students is critical."The eight colleges chosen in West Michigan are among more than 20 chosen in Michigan this year to receive support like tutoring and financial aid planning assistance through the TRIO Student Support Services Program, which helps low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities graduate college. A full list of projects can be found here. Senator Stabenow is a strong supporter of making sure that all students who work hard to get into college are given tools and resources to succeed. In April, Senator Stabenow introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, which guarantees two years of Pell Grants for qualifying middle school students to help boost college enrollment and college completion rates. Increasing higher education access and affordability for all Michiganders is a top priority for Senator Peters. Senator Peters introduced the bipartisan FAIR Student Credit Act to help private student loan borrowers rehabilitate defaulted loans and remove the default from their credit report after making a series of on-time payments. Earlier this year, he also helped introduce the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, legislation to allow borrowers with outstanding student loan debt to refinance at lower interest rates available to new borrowers. Below is a list of West Michigan recipients: Southwestern Michigan College - $291,977Aquinas College - 291,977Lake Michigan College - $281,489Glen Oaks Community College - $220,000Kellogg Community College - $352,826Grand Rapids Community College - $387,564Western Michigan University - $284,754Western Michigan University - $220,000 for Teacher PreparationGrand Valley State University - $312,674Grand Valley State University - $220,000 for Teacher PreparationGrand Valley State University - $220,000 for support for student pursuing STEM majors
07.13.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $71,250 for Snow Removal Equipment at Chippewa County International Airport Monday, July 13, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Economic Development Corporation of Chippewa County will receive $71,250 for new snow removal equipment at Chippewa County International Airport near Sault Ste. Marie. The equipment will assist in the airport's ability to clear the airfield in the event of snowstorms. The funding comes from the Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). "This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting Chippewa Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "When severe winter weather strikes, it is vital that Michigan airports are equipped with the tools needed to quickly clear runways and facilitate safe air travel," said Senator Peters. "This funding will improve airport operations and help those traveling to and from the Upper Peninsula reach their destinations safely."
07.13.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Osceola County to Buy Communications Equipment for First Responders Monday, July 13, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Osceola County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $10,800 grant will be used to purchase new mobile radios to help emergency responders communicate with each other and central dispatch. "Emergency responders have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This support will help Osceola County buy new radios so first responders can communicate more efficiently and protect their community." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
07.13.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Bangor Police Department to Buy New Police Car Monday, July 13, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Bangor City Police Department in Van Buren County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $12,000 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Bangor will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
07.09.2015	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bill to Bring Jobs Back to America Thursday, July 09, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow introduced today legislation that stops rewarding companies that move jobs overseas and instead creates new incentives to bring jobs home. Her legislation would end a tax loophole that currently pays for companies to move jobs overseas, while maintaining the deduction for those bringing jobs home. In addition, it would also provide a 20 percent tax credit to help companies with the cost of bringing jobs back to America. This bill was blocked by a Republican filibuster in 2012 and 2014. "American workers deserve a fair shot to get ahead," said Stabenow. "It's outrageous that instead of rewarding companies that are bringing jobs home, workers as taxpayers are paying to ship their own jobs overseas under the current tax code. All of my colleagues should support this critical legislation and help our workers compete on a level playing field." Over the past decade, 2.4 million American jobs have been shipped overseas, and approximately 21.5 million more jobs are at risk being moved overseas today. The Bring Jobs Home Act would strengthen manufacturing and other industrial sectors by encouraging companies to support American workers and move jobs back to the United States. Senator Stabenow's Bring Jobs Home Act: Ends a tax loophole that pays the moving expense of companies that send jobs overseas. Right now, the cost of moving personnel and components of a company to a new location is defined as a business expense that qualifies for a tax deduction. Senator Stabenow's legislation will keep this deduction in place for companies that bring jobs and business activity back home but businesses would no longer be able to get a tax benefit for shipping jobs overseas. Creates a new tax cut to provide an incentive for companies to bring jobs back to America. Specifically, her initiative will allow companies to qualify for a tax credit equal to 20% of the cost associated with bringing jobs back to the United States. This legislation is cosponsored by Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Al Franken (D-MN), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Ed Markey (D-MA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Gary Peters (D-MI).
07.09.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Houghton County Airport Thursday, July 09, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Houghton County Memorial Airport to help rehabilitate the concrete of its apron, the area of an airport where aircraft are parked. The $856,203 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. "This investment will make travelling to and from the Upper Peninsula safer and more efficient," said Senator Stabenow. "By supporting Houghton Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Investing in Michigan's transportation infrastructure boosts our regional competitiveness and helps create jobs in our state," Senator Peters said. "This support for the Houghton County Memorial Airport will improve travel and encourage economic growth in the Keweenaw Peninsula." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
07.09.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $3 Million for Four Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, July 09, 2015 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $2.9 million to help departments in Southeast Michigan hire more firefighters. This support through the Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response will go to the Allen Park Fire Department, Armada Fire Department, Farmington Hills Fire Department, and Dearborn Heights Fire Department. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Senator Stabenow. "These resources will help Southeast Michigan fire departments make sure there is always someone there to answer the call in an emergency." "Firefighters serve on the frontlines when emergency strikes in their communities," Senator Peters said. "This funding will help fire departments hire and retain more first responders while making Southeast Michigan a safer place to live, work and raise a family." Allen Park Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $1,164,000, Armada Fire Department in Macomb County will receive $224,000, Farmington Hills Fire Department in Oakland County will receive $694,588, and the Dearborn Heights Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $889,744. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, a competitive grant process to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the frontline firefighters they need to protect their communities.
07.09.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud Over $281,000 for Lincoln Park, Dearborn Heights First Responders Thursday, July 09, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Lincoln Park Fire Department has been awarded $145,455 and the Dearborn Heights Fire Department has been awarded $136,364 from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The funding can be used for vehicle acquisition and parts, including pumpers, aerials, brush trucks, tankers/tenders, rescue vehicles and ambulances. "Firefighters have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," Senator Stabenow said. "New firetrucks and parts for the Lincoln Park and Dearborn Heights Fire Departments will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." "First responders rely on vehicles to respond to emergencies both quickly and effectively, and we must ensure they are updated and safe," said Senator Peters. "I am pleased to announce this funding, which will allow firefighters in Lincoln Park and Dearborn Heights to receive the parts and vehicles necessary to continue protecting their communities." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. During FY 2014, approximately $305.4 million in grants will be rewarded. Since 2001, AFG has awarded nearly $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations for equipment, training, and emergency vehicles.
07.09.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $20,000 for First Responders in Daggett Township Thursday, July 09, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Daggett Township Volunteer Fire Department in Menominee County has been awarded $20,000 from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The funding can be used for professional training, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," Senator Stabenow said. "These new resources will help the Daggett Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "Ensuring that first responders have the proper tools to effectively train and deal with emergencies is vital," said Senator Peters. "I applaud this funding, which will allow firefighters in Daggett Township to continue protecting their community with additional equipment." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. During FY 2014, approximately $305.4 million in grants will be rewarded. Since 2001, AFG has awarded nearly $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations for equipment, training, and emergency vehicles.
07.09.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $47,620 for First Responders in Manistee Thursday, July 09, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the City of Manistee has been awarded $47,620 from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The funding can be used for professional training, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," Senator Stabenow said. "These new resources will help the Manistee Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "Ensuring that first responders have the proper tools to effectively train and deal with emergencies is vital," said Senator Peters. "I applaud this funding, which will allow firefighters in Manistee to continue protecting their community with additional equipment." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. During FY 2014, approximately $305.4 million in grants will be rewarded. Since 2001, AFG has awarded nearly $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations for equipment, training, and emergency vehicles.
07.06.2015	Senator Debbie Stabenow, Congressman Fred Upton Tour Fort Custer, Battle Creek Air National Guard Base and VA Medical Center Monday, July 06, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow and Congressman Fred Upton toured Fort Custer, the Battle Creek Air National Guard base and the Battle Creek VA Medical Center on Monday, July 6. Battle Creek's military operations are critical to our country's national security and Michigan's economy. The Air National Guard Base is currently in the running to house a new Cyber Protection Squadron and support a missile defense system that would be located at Fort Custer. In addition to these two locations, Senator Stabenow and Congressman Upton visited the Battle Creek VA Medical Center, which recently upgraded its mental health treatment facilities. Senator Stabenow and Congressman Upton have requested the Pentagon choose Fort Custer as a new missile defense site, which would protect the eastern half of the country. In April, Senator Stabenow and Congressman Upton led the Michigan delegation in urging Defense Secretary Ashton Carter to select the Air National Guard base in Battle Creek as the location for a cybersecurity mission. Both operations would add jobs to the region and allow Michigan to demonstrate the unique role the state plays in the safety and security of our country.
07.04.2015	Senator Stabenow Participates in Annual Independence Day Parades Saturday, July 04, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow celebrated the Fourth of July with families across Michigan. She participated in Plymouth's 19th Annual Kiwanis Good Morning USA parade and the Brighton Independence Day Parade. The theme of the Good Morning USA parade was "Dream Big." Trophies for most patriotic, musical and creative were given out during the parade in Brighton, and its theme was "America, Land That I Love."
07.02.2015	Ranking Member Stabenow Urges Administration to Support Biomass Industry, Spur Economic Growth in Michigan Thursday, July 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, joined 46 U.S. Senators in a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Department of Energy, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture urging the agencies to support the growth of biomass energy, which makes up approximately 35 percent of Michigan's renewable energy. This letter calls on the Administration to streamline current policies, which would boost job creation in the biomass industry and spur economic growth in Michigan. "We write to support biomass energy as a sustainable, responsible, renewable, and economically significant energy source," the Senators wrote. "Federal policies across all departments and agencies must remove any uncertainties and contradictions through a clear, unambiguous message that forest bioenergy is part of the nation's energy future." Michigan's 20 million acres of forestland support thousands of jobs and bring in $16.3 billion per year to Michigan's economy. These forests directly contribute to the state's biomass industry, which supports hundreds of local jobs and contributes millions of dollars to communities throughout the state. There are currently seven biomass power plants in Michigan generating carbon neutral electricity and reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. The letter was led by Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Susan Collins (R-ME) and included Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Roy Blunt (R-MI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), John Boozman (R-AR), Bob Casey (D-PA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Al Franken (D-MN), Thad Cochran (R-MI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Angus King (I-ME), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Steve Daines (R-MT), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Patty Murray (D-WA), Johnny Isaskson (R-GA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), David Perdue (R-GA), Rob Portman (R-OH), Jon Tester (D-MT), James Risch (R-ID), Mark Warner (D-VA), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Tim Scott (R-SC), John Thune (R-SD), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Pat Toomey (R-PA), David Vitter (R-LA), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The full text of the letter follows. Dear Administrator McCarthy, Secretary Moniz, and Secretary Vilsack: We write to support biomass energy as a sustainable, responsible, renewable, and economically significant energy source. Federal policies across all departments and agencies must remove any uncertainties and contradictions through a clear, unambiguous message that forest bioenergy is part of the nation's energy future. Many states are relying on renewable biomass to meet their energy goals, and we support renewable biomass to create jobs and economic growth while meeting our nation's energy needs. A comprehensive science, technical, and legal administrative record supports a clear and simple policy establishing the benefits of energy from forest biomass. Federal policies that add unnecessary costs and complexity will discourage rather than encourage investment in working forests, harvesting operations, bioenergy, wood products, and paper manufacturing. Unclear or contradictory signals from federal agencies could discourage biomass utilization as an energy solution. The carbon neutrality of forest biomass has been recognized repeatedly by numerous studies, agencies, institutions, legislation, and rules around the world, and there has been no dispute about the carbon neutrality of biomass derived from residuals of forest products manufacturing and agriculture. Our constituents employed in the biomass supply chain deserve a federal policy that recognizes the clear benefits of forest bioenergy. We urge you to ensure that federal policies are consistent and reflect the carbon neutrality of forest bioenergy.
07.01.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Forsyth Township Fire Department Wednesday, July 01, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $143,124 for the Forsyth Township Fire Department in Marquette County. This grant, which comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will be used to replace 22 self-contained breathing apparatuses. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Forsyth Fire Department buy the breathing sets they need to keep their firefighters safe and protect their community." "First responders put so much on the line to keep our communities safe, and ensuring they have the resources needed to continue safeguarding neighborhoods is critical," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding which will help firefighters in Forysth Township be better equipped to respond to emergencies and improve public safety." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.01.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Hudson Township Fire and Rescue Wednesday, July 01, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $24,762 for Hudson Township Fire and Rescue in Charlevoix County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our first responders put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Hudson Fire and Rescue buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "First responders put so much on the line to keep our communities safe, and ensuring they have the resources needed to continue safeguarding neighborhoods is critical," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding which will help firefighters in Hudson Township be better equipped to respond to emergencies and improve public safety." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.01.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Croswell Emergency Medical Services Wednesday, July 01, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $23,777 for Croswell Emergency Medical Services in Sanilac County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our first responders put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help Croswell Emergency Medical Services buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "First responders put so much on the line to keep our communities safe, and ensuring they have the resources needed to continue safeguarding neighborhoods is critical," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding which will help firefighters in Croswell be better equipped to respond to emergencies and improve public safety." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.01.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Climax Township Fire Department Wednesday, July 01, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $21,601 for the Climax Township Fire Department in Kalamazoo County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Climax Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "First responders put so much on the line to keep our communities safe, and ensuring they have the resources needed to continue safeguarding neighborhoods is critical," Senator Peters said. "I applaud this funding which will help firefighters in Climax Township be better equipped to respond to emergencies and improve public safety." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.01.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Calumet Village Police Department to Buy New Police Car Wednesday, July 01, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Calumet Village Police Department in Houghton County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $23,000 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Calumet will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
06.29.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce More than $4 Million in PILT Funding for Michigan Monday, June 29, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $4,281,492 in funding for 29 Michigan counties through the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. Michigan is home to more than three million acres of federal lands, and as a result, county governments throughout Michigan miss out on critical property tax revenue every year. These Michigan counties depend on PILT to help fund essential services, such as health, education, law enforcement and infrastructure maintenance services. "As a former County Commissioner, I know the important role that local counties play in providing critical services like roads, police and fire protection," said Stabenow. "This funding will ensure the continuing partnership between our local communities, national forests, and other federal lands that contribute so much to our Michigan way of life." "The PILT program plays a critical role in helping counties make up for lost revenue, while preserving these treasured resources for visitors from Michigan and across the country. Without PILT, counties across Michigan would face economic hardship and struggle to fund many of the essential services that residents rely on," said Peters. "I'm pleased to join with Senator Stabenow to announce more than $4 million in funding that will help Michigan communities with federal public lands continue to provide vital services for their residents and improve access to our parks, lakeshore and trails for everyone to enjoy." Outdoor recreation is a key part of Michigan's economy, generating more than $18 billion in consumer spending and supporting nearly 200,000 jobs. In 2014, Michigan's parks, trails and other public lands brought in nearly 2 million visitors and generated $173 million in economic benefits from tourism. For a complete list of counties that received PILT funding in 2015, please click here.
06.26.2015	Stabenow, Peters Join in Introduction of Bill to Protect Veterans & Military Education Benefits Friday, June 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today joined their colleagues in introducing the Military and Veterans Education Protection Act of 2015 to close a loophole that allows for-profit schools to exploit veteran educational benefits and tuition assistance. Under current law, for-profit schools must follow the "90-10 rule" which requires them to obtain at least 10 percent of their revenues from sources other than taxpayers. However, current law leaves open a loophole that allows for-profit institutions to count military and veteran educational assistance, including tuition assistance and Post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefits, as non-federal revenues. As a result, some bad actors in the for-profit industry are exploiting the 90-10 rule loophole by aggressively recruiting servicemembers and veterans eligible for these educational benefits. "America's veterans and servicemembers make countless sacrifices to keep us safe," said Senator Stabenow. "This bill will help protect taxpayers as well as the education benefits that these brave men and women have earned." "Countless veterans have used the G.I. Bill to pay for higher education after serving our nation in uniform, and it is very disturbing that certain bad actors are taking advantage of our servicemembers and veterans to obtain taxpayer money," said Senator Peters. "I'm glad to join my colleagues in introducing this legislation that better safeguards taxpayers in Michigan and across the country while protecting the benefits veterans and servicemembers have earned through their service." Since 2009, more than one million servicemembers, veterans, and their families have financed their higher education using the G.I. Bill, and millions more will take advantage of this benefit in the years to come. However, in the past five years, 40 percent of Post-9/11 G.I. Bill tuition benefits have gone to the for-profit sector, even as questions continue to be raised about these institutions' graduation, default, and job placement rates. The recent collapse of the for-profit chain Corinthian Colleges - which received $186 million in Post-9/11 G.I. Bill dollars - due to financial problems is another glaring reminder that Congress must remain diligent to protect active-duty military, veterans, and taxpayers. This legislation would require G.I. Bill benefits that come from the Department of Veterans Affairs and military education benefits offered through the Department of Defense to count toward the 90-percent limit on the federal share of a school's revenue.
06.25.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Supreme Court Health Care Ruling Thursday, June 25, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling in the King v. Burwell case. Today's decision ensures continued access to health care for millions of Americans. "Today's decision means millions of families will be able to keep their affordable health insurance for themselves and their children. Once again, the Supreme Court has upheld the Affordable Care Act, and I urge Republicans to stop playing games and get to work making sure the law works for every American family."
06.24.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $200,000 to Support Job Training for Homeless Veterans in Flint and Bay Region Wednesday, June 24, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $199,996 has been awarded to Volunteers of America-Michigan to support job training for homeless veterans in Bay, Genesee, Saginaw, and Shiawassee counties. The funding, which is part of the Department of Labor's Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program (HVRP), will go towards assisting veterans with job training for in-demand jobs and help them transition out of homelessness and into more sustainable housing. "America's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of our country," Senator Stabenow said. "This support will help our heroes get the training they need to find good-paying jobs and move into permanent homes." "America's men and women in uniform have made great sacrifices to defend our nation, and we must keep the promises we've made to support them as they transition back to civilian life," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "This funding takes steps toward ending veteran homelessness by helping our veterans in Flint and the Bay Region access critical job training." The HVRP awards competitive grants to state and local workforce investment boards; local public agencies and nonprofit organizations; and tribal governments, including faith-based and community organizations. Homeless veterans may receive occupational, classroom and on-the-job training, as well as job search and placement assistance, including follow-up services. Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters has been a strong voice in Congress for our nation's veterans. Earlier this year, Peters signed a bipartisan letter calling for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that works to end veteran homelessness. On any given night, there are nearly 50,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads.
06.24.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $159,100 to Support Job Training for Homeless Veterans in Washtenaw, Jackson Counties Wednesday, June 24, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $159,100 has been awarded to Michigan Ability Partners to support job training for homeless veterans in Washtenaw and Jackson counties. The funding, which is part of the Department of Labor's Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program (HVRP), will go towards assisting veterans with job training for in-demand jobs and help them transition out of homelessness and into more sustainable housing. "America's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of our country," Senator Stabenow said. "This support will help our heroes in Washtenaw and Jackson Counties get the training they need to find good-paying jobs and move into permanent homes." "America's men and women in uniform have made great sacrifices to defend our nation, and we must keep the promises we've made to support them as they transition back to civilian life," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "This funding takes steps toward ending veteran homelessness by helping our veterans in Washtenaw and Jackson counties access critical job training." The HVRP awards competitive grants to state and local workforce investment boards, local public agencies and nonprofit organizations, and tribal governments, including faith-based and community organizations. Homeless veterans may receive occupational, classroom and on-the-job training, as well as job search and placement assistance, including follow-up services. Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters has been a strong voice in Congress for our nation's veterans. Earlier this year, Peters signed a bipartisan letter calling for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that works to end veteran homelessness. On any given night, there are nearly 50,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads.
06.24.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Grant to Develop Efficient Auto Generators in Farmington Hills Wednesday, June 24, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters (MI) today announced a $2.5 million grant from the Department of Energy to MAHLE Powertrain, a global automotive systems supplier located in Farmington Hills, to develop and optimize a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) generator. The generator uses an internal combustion engine with a turbulent jet ignition, which enables the system to operate under ultra-lean conditions and increase thermal efficiency. Oak Ridge National Laboratory will work with the company to develop an innovative low-temperature after-treatment system to reduce exhaust emissions. "Today's announcement is another example of the innovation and leadership of Michigan's businesses who are leading the way in developing new technologies," Senator Stabenow said. "This investment in auto manufacturing will help reduce pollution and improve fuel efficiency so families pay less at the pump." "Making sure that our auto manufacturers and suppliers are equipped to lead the way in cutting-edge technologies will help the American auto industry continue to thrive and compete globally," said Senator Peters. "It's fitting that an auto systems supplier in Michigan is helping to pioneer these technological advances to figure out new solutions for cutting fuel costs and emissions while reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Investing in innovative research is key to developing the next generation of fuel-efficient automobiles here at home, and this support from the Department of Energy will help make these cars of the future a reality for businesses and consumers." "MAHLE Powertrain is pleased to have the opportunity to work with the Department of Energy and Oak Ridge National Laboratory," said Hugh Blaxill, head of MAHLE Powertrain North America. "Combustion development is a key enabler to achieving future fuel economy and emissions targets. MAHLE Powertrain's years in developing advanced combustion research utilizing a pre-chamber jet ignition combustion system will be a key factor in developing a low-temperature after-treatment system that can be used to reduce exhaust emissions." The grant is funded through the Department of Energy's Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). ARPA-E advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too early for private sector investment, helping to develop entirely new ways to generate, store and use energy. The grant is part of one of ARPA-E's newest programs, GENerators for Small Electrical and Thermal Systems (GENSETS), aimed at developing generator technologies that will improve efficiencies in CHP generation. MAHLE Powertrain provides engineering services and products in a broad range of powertrain markets, with a strong focus on designing and developing gasoline, diesel and alternative fuel engines. MAHLE Powertrain is a wholly owned subsidiary of MAHLE Industries Inc., a leading global development partner for the automotive and engine industry offering unique systems competence in the areas of engine systems, filtration, electrics/mechatronics and thermal management.
06.24.2015	Senate Finance Committee Passes Senators Stabenow and Grassley’s Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Maternity Care for Moms and Babies Wednesday, June 24, 2015 The U.S. Senate Committee on Finance approved Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Chuck Grassley's (R-IA) bipartisan Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act of 2015 to improve maternity care for women and newborns and reduce health care costs. This bill makes sure all pregnant women have the care they need to give their children a healthy start regardless of where they live. Senators Stabenow and Grassley are senior members of the Senate Finance Committee. "From small towns like the one I grew up in to big cities, women and children deserve access to the best health care from the very start of a pregnancy." said Senator Stabenow. "By making sure women and their babies receive quality care from the doctor's office to the delivery room, we will help healthy babies grow into healthy and successful adults." "Sharing best practices is something to encourage in any field, especially in health care, where lives are at stake," Senator Grassley said. "With the federal government paying for 40 percent of births in the United States and the incredible expense and risk of complicated deliveries, improving maternity outcome quality makes sense for moms, babies and taxpayers." "This bill is a boon for women and babies and will accelerate much-needed improvement in maternity and infant care," said Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women & Families. "With Medicaid covering more than two in five births in this country, we need innovative ways to drive better health outcomes and higher quality care, and this legislation will help do just that. We applaud Senators Stabenow and Grassley for their unwavering commitment to healthy mothers and babies, and urge the full Senate - and the House - to make passage of the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act a high priority this year." Nearly a quarter of all hospitalizations are related to childbearing women and newborns. The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act of 2015 will improve maternity care for women and newborns by holding Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program accountable through higher quality standards. The legislation will also support collaboration that promotes the best care and avoids medical complications to reduce costs.
06.23.2015	Senator Stabenow Named Sandy Hook Promise Champion for Work to Expand Mental Health Care Tuesday, June 23, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow was honored by Sandy Hook Promise for her work to increase access to quality community mental health care. In one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades, a demonstration project based on Senator Stabenow's Excellence in Mental Health Act was signed into law by President Obama in April 2014. Sandy Hook Promise is a national organization that formed after the tragic 2012 shooting that occurred at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT. In addition to preventing gun violence, the group strives to increase mental health awareness through initiatives like the Know the Signs program, which teaches community members how to identify mental illness and help prevent future tragedies. "It is an honor to be recognized by such a courageous group of individuals who have endured unspeakable loss and have chosen to turn their pain into positive change to help others and save lives," said Senator Stabenow. "Mental illness is an important issue that touches every family in some way. I believe the Excellence in Mental Health Act, which is being implemented right now, will make a real difference in the lives of people who need treatment and their families." Senator Stabenow's Excellence in Mental Health Act establishes criteria for certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics to ensure the providers cover a broad range of mental health services, including 24-hour crisis care, increased integration of physical, mental and substance abuse treatment so consumers are treated simultaneously rather than separately, and expanded support for families of people living with mental health issues. Just last month an initiative was launched based on Senator Stabenow's bill. Sandy Hook Promise was founded in January 2013 to prevent future violence by promoting mental health care and gun violence prevention programs. U.S. Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Clinical Psychologist and University of Virginia Professor Dewey Cornell were also honored at the event.
06.20.2015	Ranking Member Stabenow Receives “Legislator of the Year Award” At Detroit Kennel Club Dog Show Saturday, June 20, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow was presented with the American Kennel Club's "Legislator of the Year Award" for her work on behalf of dog breeders on Saturday, June 20 during the 2015 Detroit Kennel Club Dog Show. Senator Stabenow also presented this year's "Best in Show" award. The animal protection provisions in the 2014 Farm Bill authored by Senator Stabenow fixed regulatory changes that were made in 2013 that would have forced small dog breeders to comply with new licensure requirements meant for large-scale commercial breeders and online pet sellers. Without the changes made by Senator Stabenow, these commercial breeder regulations would have inadvertently harmed some small hobby breeders, including some facilities that also serve as foster homes for rescue dogs. Senator Stabenow fixed this burdensome regulation for small breeders while maintaining important protections for animal welfare. The Detroit Kennel Club dog show is one of only five "benched" shows remaining in the United States that allows the public to meet and greet the dogs. Over 160 breeds were represented at the show.
06.19.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $1.2 Million for Muskegon County Airport Friday, June 19, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Muskegon County Airport to rehabilitate the concrete of its apron, the area of an airport where aircraft are parked. The $1,193,767 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. "This investment will make travelling to and from West Michigan safer and more efficient," said Stabenow. "By supporting Muskegon Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Investing in infrastructure projects is critical to creating jobs in Michigan," Peters said. "I'm proud to announce this grant, which will facilitate travel to West Michigan and economic growth in the Muskegon area." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
06.19.2015	Senators Stabenow, Wicker, Brown, Capito Urge Department of Health and Human Services to Provide Additional Support for Community Health Centers Friday, June 19, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), and four other Senators urged the Department of Health and Human Services to immediately release fiscal year 2015 funding for Community Health Centers. Some of the funds had been set aside in case there was a lapse in funding for health centers, but Congress extended funding earlier this year as part of the larger Medicare package. In March, Senators Stabenow and Wicker led a letter to the U.S. Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies requesting continued funding for community health centers. The letter reads in part: "For half a century, Community Health Centers (CHCs) have been providing comprehensive primary health care and support services to underserved and uninsured patients nationwide. Investments in CHCs across the country have already helped provide health care, behavioral health, dental care, vision, and pharmacy services to more than 23 million individuals, yet demand for additional sites and services remains." Health centers serve as the health care home for nearly 600,000 Michigan residents in 200 clinics across the state. In Mississippi, where the first rural community health center opened half a century ago, over 300,000 patients are served annually at 170 delivery sites. There are more than 200 community health center locations across Ohio, serving more than 570,000 Ohioans last year. In 2013, 240 West Virginia delivery sites served around 380,000 patients. The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Sylvia Mathews BurwellSecretaryU.S. Department of Health and Human Services200 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Burwell: As strong supporters of our nation's Community Health Centers (CHCs), we want to thank you for your continued efforts to increase access to primary care and health services for all Americans. We appreciate the work the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has done to increase access to CHCs, and we urge you to utilize all of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 CHC funding available so health centers are able to keep up with the current demands for additional sites and services. For half a century, CHCs have been providing comprehensive primary health care and support services to underserved and uninsured patients nationwide. Investments in CHCs across the country have already helped provide health care, behavioral health, dental care, vision, and pharmacy services to more than 23 million individuals, yet demand for additional sites and services remains. As you know, in FY2015, the Health Centers Program received a total program funding level of $5.1 billion. This includes $1.49 billion in discretionary funding through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and $3.6 billion in mandatory funding from the Community Health Center Fund. If fully utilized, these funds could increase access to care for patients in every state of the country. We understand that a portion of the FY2015 funding was allocated for the Health Center Program but left unobligated to support the program should Congress fail to extend the Fund before the end of FY2015. Congress has since extended funding for the Health Center Fund through 2017 as part of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. This legislation received overwhelming bipartisan support from Congress, in part because of the stability and funding opportunities it provides CHCs. With that stability now in place, we hope HHS will allocate available funding as soon as possible. We appreciate that HHS has already started to allocate some of the remaining FY2015 funds. Last month, HHS announced $101 million in new funding to CHCs in 33 states and two U.S. Territories. These New Access Point (NAP) awards will expand access to primary care for an additional 650,000 patients in 164 communities, generating an overall cost savings to the health care system. While we are pleased HHS has awarded these funds to increase access to care across the country, there are still more than 300 approved, unfunded applications pending from communities desperately in need of health center services. We urge you to promptly award all of the FY2015 funding made available by Congress so new organizations may gain "health center" status through additional NAP grants and existing health centers can expand their organizations to address demands in their communities. Sincerely, Senator Roger WickerSenator Debbie StabenowSenator Tammy Baldwin Senator Sherrod BrownSenator Shelley Moore Capito Senator Mark S. KirkSenator James LankfordSenator Bernard Sanders
06.18.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce Bill to Increase Support for Michigan Refugees Thursday, June 18, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today introduced the Domestic Refugee Resettlement Reform and Modernization Act (S.1615) to make sure Michigan gets critical funding needed to support refugee families who settle in Michigan. Under current law, if refugees move from one state to another, the resettlement assistance often does not follow them to their new location. This results in funding shortages in states with high numbers of refugees like Michigan. "Michigan has long been a compassionate state, providing support for families who flee from persecution and violence in their own countries," said Stabenow. "This legislation will make sure that the resources follow these vulnerable families who settle in Michigan to the agencies providing the critical services they need." "The United States has always been a beacon of hope and freedom for those fleeing oppression, and I'm proud to represent Michigan's diverse communities in the U.S. Senate," Peters said. "I'm glad to join Senator Stabenow in introducing legislation that will ensure that critical assistance is accessible for families fleeing persecution who settle in Michigan." Senators Stabenow and Peters' bill revises the state funding formula used by the Office of Refugee Resettlement so that it accounts for future refugee arrivals and more accurately distributes funds to state resettlement offices. Under this bill, Michigan would receive more resources to serve the refugees and their families who settle in the state. In addition to addressing this funding inequity, the bill requires the Office of Refugee Resettlement to expand its data collection to better address the challenges refugees face. It also helps refugees become independent by increasing access to job retraining. The bill is now pending before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Last year, more than 4,000 refugees resettled in Michigan.
06.18.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Senate Passage of the National Defense Authorization Act Thursday, June 18, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the passage of the nation's defense authorization bill, which outlines defense priorities and prevents the retirement of the A-10 Warthog. The Obama Administration called for the retirement of the A-10 Thunderbolt II fleet, which is operated by the 127th Wing located at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. Earlier this year, Senator Stabenow sent letters to President Obama and the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense requesting full funding of the A-10 program. "The A-10 Warthog protects our men and women in uniform and is critically important to our country's national security and Michigan's economy. Just last month, 350 Airmen and 12 A-10s from Selfridge Air National Guard Base in Michigan were deployed to the Middle East to fight ISIL. I am pleased this bill keeps the A-10 Warthog flying to defend our country while supporting military families in Michigan." More than 4,000 full-time civilian and military personnel work at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. The base contributes hundreds of millions of dollars to Michigan's economy each year.
06.18.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Reed City Police Department to Buy New Bulletproof Vests and Upgrade Emergency Radio System Thursday, June 18, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Reed City Police Department in Osceola County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $13,000 grant will be used to help purchase bulletproof vests for police officers and upgrade their emergency communications system. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This support will help Reed City buy the new radios and bulletproof vests they need to keep their officers safe and protect their community." Reed City Police Department will receive $2,000 for new ballistic vests and $11,000 to upgrade the emergency radio communications system to make it compatible with Mecosta County Central Dispatch. Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
06.18.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Marquette Fire Department Thursday, June 18, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $64,629 for the Marquette Fire Department. This grant, which comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will be used to purchase 12 self-contained breathing apparatuses. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Marquette Fire Department buy the breathing sets they need to keep their firefighters safe and protect their community." "It is critical that first responders have the most up to date tools and equipment to effectively respond to emergencies, and I applaud this funding, which will ensure Marquette has the necessary resources to continue protecting its community," Senator Peters said. "Being a smaller department we can't overemphasize the importance of this grant program," said City of Marquette Fire Chief Tom Belt. "We are grateful for Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters' constant efforts in support of first responders like ourselves." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
06.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Investment in Grand Rapids Transit System Tuesday, June 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced that The Rapid's proposal to construct a 13.3-mile bus rapid transit (BRT) line between downtown Grand Rapids and Grand Valley State University in Allendale was accepted by the U.S. Department of Transportation's Small Starts Capital Investment program. This highly selective program will give The Rapids' Laker Line project the support it needs to develop a plan and apply for federal funding. "This announcement is a great step in moving this project forward," said Senator Stabenow. "The Laker Line will help connect workers with major employers and students with downtown businesses, giving a significant boost to West Michigan's economy. Reliable transportation is critical for families and students who need a safe and dependable way to get to work and school." "Today's announcement is a great step forward as The Rapid continues to develop the Laker Line to reduce traffic and offer affordable transportation in the Grand Rapids area," Senator Peters said. "These resources will help promote future development for the bus line connecting downtown Grand Rapids to Grand Valley State University to improve access to the region's largest university for students, workers and community members." "This is a very exciting step forward for the Laker Line. Our experience in delivering the Silver Line--Michigan's first bus rapid transit line--on time and on budget, and the success it has had since it opened, has shown that we know how to build and operate BRT," said The Rapid CEO Peter Varga. "This has clearly helped expedite our next line. Being able to move into project development is a huge step forward in connecting the Allendale campus, Walker, Grand Rapids' west side, and Medical Mile with in an efficient, effective, and attractive way." Expanding the bus system will facilitate faster, higher-capacity transit service in a corridor that experiences crowding during peak times. It could also boost student enrollment and attendance at GVSU by facilitating travel between the campuses in Grand Rapids and Allendale. The Laker Line plan includes building 11 stations and purchasing 13 high-capacity compressed natural gas buses. In this Project Development phase, The Rapid will receive support as it completes an environmental review process and develop an evaluation system before requesting federal funding for construction. The amount of Small Starts funding the project will request has not yet been announced. The Federal Transportation Administration's Small Starts Capital Investment program is designed for major transit capital investments, including rapid rail, light rail, bus rapid transit, commuter rail, and ferries.
06.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Multi-Million Dollar Tax Credit to Support Economic Development in Michigan Tuesday, June 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, and Gary Peters today announced a $55 million tax credit allocation for community development projects to grow the economy and create jobs in Michigan and three other states. The support comes through the Treasury Department's New Markets Tax Credit Program, which helps spur critical investments in low-income communities. Today's announcement will help Great Lakes Capital Fund invest in low-income areas in Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. Senator Stabenow said: "It's incredible to see all of the progress that's being made in Michigan. While we have much more to do, today's announcement is key in making sure we continue to move forward and that communities across the state have the tools they need to make communities and neighborhoods even better places to live and work. I will continue to advocate for these tax credits which are an important economic development tool for Michigan." Senator Peters said: "Ensuring we expand economic opportunities for all of Michigan's communities is critical, and I applaud today's announcement that will help Michigan continue our state's revitalization efforts. This award will jumpstart economic development and promote important investments in Michigan's neighborhoods, and I look forward to continue finding ways to continue supporting economic growth across the state." Mark McDaniel, CEO of Great Lakes Capital Fund, said: "We are humbled to receive the largest award to date. This is fantastic news for Michigan families, who want to live and work in vibrant communities, and our businesses, which thrive when their neighborhood is energized and growing. We've been working with communities across the state on economic development, and these funds will provide the tools that will allow these important projects to move forward. Today's announcement shows why it is so important we continue working hard to extend and expand this vital tax credit so additional opportunities for Michigan remain available in the future." Last year, Great Lakes Capital Fund used their tax credits to support the M-1 Rail project and related economic development in downtown and mid-town. The credits also helped HAVEN in Oakland County, which is an emergency shelter and counseling center for victims of domestic and sexual violence. The New Markets Tax Credit Program allows community development organizations and non-profits to use these tax credits to attract investors, who help to finance community development projects. This project is one of 76 across the country receiving a total of $3.5 billion in tax credits. Senators Stabenow and Peters have been long-time supporters of this program and will continue to fight to make sure Michigan gets its fair share of New Market Tax Credits.
06.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Urge Funding to Keep Fisheries Healthy, Strengthen Great Lakes Economy Thursday, June 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today urged Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell to fund mass marking programs in next year's budget. Mass marking is a tool used to collect data and measure the effectiveness of fish protection, habitat, and water quality. If approved, these programs will allow researchers to tag Great Lakes fish with a barcode chip prior to stocking. This practice will help researchers understand how hatchery fish affect the population levels of wild fish. Senator Stabenow is the Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. Senator Peters joined this year after serving on the House Great Lakes Task Force. The letter reads in part: "Mass marking provides critical data for determining the effectiveness of fish protection, habitat, and water quality measures, and for evaluating the abundance of hatchery and wild fish populations. While the specific needs of fishery managers in Great Lakes and Pacific Coast states differ, marking programs have been utilized effectively in both regions." Great Lakes states and tribes annually stock 25- to 30-million salmon and trout to restore native fish populations and diversify sport fisheries. At the request of the Council of Lake Committees and the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service established the Great Lakes Fish Tag and Recovery Laboratory in 2010 to better understand the impact of hatchery fish on native fish. The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Secretary Jewell: We write to urge you to request funding in FY2017 for mass marking programs, a critical tool for science-based management of hatchery and wild fish populations. Mass marking provides critical data for determining the effectiveness of fish protection, habitat, and water quality measures, and for evaluating the abundance of hatchery and wild fish populations. While the specific needs of fishery managers in Great Lakes and Pacific Coast states differ, marking programs have been utilized effectively in both regions. In the Great Lakes, mass marking supports the responsible management of Chinook and alewives and enhances our understanding of the contribution of Lake Trout to the diverse ecosystem. In the Northwest, selective gear enables hatchery fish to be harvested while allowing for the release of wild fish, many of which are listed under the Endangered Species Act. Marking all hatchery salmon, steelhead, and lake trout in freshwater lakes and oceans also allows for the identification and separation of hatchery and wild adults returning to their respective spawning grounds. Scientific research in the Northwest and California demonstrated that two wild fish spawning together in their native habitat have twice the productivity or survival rate as two hatchery fish spawning in the wild. Additionally, recovery under the Endangered Species Act requires wild spawning adults as opposed to hatchery adults spawning in the wild. In advance of your FY2017 budget request, we respectfully urge you to include robust funding for mass marking programs, which have proven to be a vital scientific tool for managing fisheries valued at $16.5 billion annually. Thank you for your consideration of this request.
06.09.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Urge Funding to Upgrade Soo Locks, Protect Great Lakes Economy Tuesday, June 09, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today urged Office of Management and Budget Director Sean Donovan to approve the Army Corps of Engineers' request to help replace Sault Ste. Marie's Davis and Sabin Locks with a lock of similar size to the Poe Lock. Currently, 70 percent of cargo vessels are forced to use the Poe Lock because they are too large to use the others. Replacing the smaller locks would ensure the safe and efficient transport of cargo through the Great Lakes. Senator Stabenow is the Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. Senator Peters joined this year after serving on the House Great Lakes Task Force. The letter reads in part: "The Soo Locks, which consists of four parallel locks, is crucial to the safe and efficient transport of approximately 10,000 vessels that carry 80 million tons of cargo annually through the Great Lakes ... An unscheduled outage at the Poe Lock would prevent the passage of large vessels carrying commodities critical to our national security and our regional and national economies. A 30-day unscheduled outage at the Poe Lock would result in an estimated $160 million in economic loses." The Soo Locks are critically important to Michigan's economy and our national security. Iron ore, a commodity vital to our nation's defense and manufacturing industry, is only able to travel from mine to mill via ship in the Great Lakes through the Soo Locks. In March, Senators Stabenow and Peters urged the Army Corps Assistant Secretary Jo-Ellen Darcy to request support for this funding. The full text of the letter to the Office of Management and Budget can be found below: Dear Director Donovan: We write to urge Office of Management and Budget to expeditiously approve the reprograming request submitted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that will fund an Economic Reevaluation Report (ERR) for replacing the Davis and Sabin Locks at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan (Soo Locks). The Soo Locks, which consists of four parallel locks, is crucial to the safe and efficient transport of approximately 10,000 vessels that carry 80 million tons of cargo annually through the Great Lakes / St. Lawrence Seaway System. Currently, 70% of the cargo that transits the Soo Locks must utilize the Poe Lock due to size restrictions. The Davis Lock constructed in 1918 and the Sabin Lock built a year later are no longer capable of handling vessel traffic. An unscheduled outage at the Poe Lock would prevent the passage of large vessels carrying commodities critical to our national security and our regional and national economies. A 30-day unscheduled outage at the Poe Lock would result in an estimated $160 million in economic loses. The ERR will examine the benefits and costs of replacing the Davis and Sabin Locks with a new lock capable of accommodating these ships and creating the redundancy necessary to ensure unfettered commerce through the Great Lakes. The pending reprogramming request is a critical step in the consideration of this important project, and we urge OMB to approve the funding transfer in a timely manner. Thank you for your consideration of this request.
06.05.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce Green Infrastructure Grant for Muskegon Friday, June 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $110,448 to the City of Muskegon to fund green infrastructure projects. The City of Muskegon plans to use the grant to install one constructed wetland, two rain gardens, and one bioswale to help the community prevent the discharge of more than 5 million gallons of untreated stormwater into Muskegon Lake and Lake Michigan each year. The funding is part of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Shoreline Cities Grants program to help shoreline cities improve Great Lakes water quality through green infrastructure projects. "This support will improve water quality in Muskegon Lake and help make sure Lake Michigan remains clean and healthy for generations to come," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "This investment from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative will enable Muskegon to implement forward-thinking infrastructure developments that improve Lake Michigan's water quality," said Senator Peters. "Michigan's economy depends on the health of the Great Lakes ecosystem, and this funding from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative strengthens our ability to clean up stormwater pollution and protect Lake Michigan and Muskegon Lake." Senators Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
06.05.2015	Senators Stabenow, Collins Introduce Measure to Support Service Members, Veterans and Families Affected by Alzheimer’s Disease Friday, June 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Susan Collins (R-ME) introduced a bipartisan measure to help military families combat Alzheimer's disease and support those suffering or caring for a military family member with this devastating illness. More than 5 million Americans are living with this disease, and more than 15 million people serve as their caregivers. This measure, offered as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, promotes the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's under the TRICARE program. "Our service members and veterans put their lives on the line to keep us safe, which is why they deserve nothing but the best possible health care, including critical support for family members caring for those with Alzheimer's disease," said Senator Stabenow. "This heartbreaking disease can be terrifying for individuals and their families, especially when they don't know what information and support is available to them. This measure recognizes the toll Alzheimer's takes on caregivers and makes sure that under TRICARE, service members have the tools they need to take care of their families and themselves." "Alzheimer's is a devastating disease that takes a tremendous personal and economic toll on the individual, the family, and our society," Senator Collins said. "Finding a way to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's is an urgent national priority. We must also do more to support caregivers and families who are struggling to care for a loved one suffering from the disease. Our amendment would increase access to information on care and support for newly diagnosed individuals and their families through TRICARE, providing essential support for military families facing this devastating and debilitating disease." Members of the military face unique risks due to their environment that could lead to a greater chance of developing Alzheimer's disease. Certain types of traumatic brain injury may increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's or another form of dementia. During the years of conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center reported hundreds of thousands of documented cases of traumatic brain injury among active duty members. Based on of the Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act, this measure would ensure that TRICARE beneficiaries diagnosed with Alzheimer's and their families have access to a care planning session with their doctor to help them understand the diagnosis, treatment options, and what medical and military services are available. The HOPE Act introduced by Senators Stabenow, Collins, Ed Markey (D-MA), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) earlier this year calls for the creation of a planning session under Medicare. This amendment would put in place the same session under TRICARE. The measure also calls on the Defense Secretary to determine whether additional support and services should be provided to caregivers of service members with Alzheimer's disease. Fewer than half of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's say they were told the diagnosis, according to a just-released 2015 Alzheimer's Association report. In contrast, more than 90 percent of people with the four most common cancers (breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate) say they were told their diagnosis. Alzheimer's disease is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States and Alzheimer's and other dementias will cost the nation $226 billion in 2015 according to the new report. This measure is cosponsored by Senators Edward Markey (D-MA), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Tom Carper (D-DE), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Gary Peters (D-MI), and Mark Warner (D-VA).
06.05.2015	Senator Stabenow Attends Deloitte’s Annual Impact Day in Detroit Friday, June 05, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow attended Deloitte's 16th Annual Impact Day on June 5. The event supported Detroit nonprofits and focused on the importance of giving back to communities across the country. Hundreds of employees of Deloitte, which provides audit, consulting, tax and advisory services to companies worldwide, volunteered with several groups across metro Detroit. Senator Stabenow visited project sites at the Belle Isle Conservancy and Gleaners Community Food Bank of Southeastern Michigan.
06.04.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces $1.5 Million for Filer Township Water Project Thursday, June 04, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Filer Township in Manistee County. The $1,500,000 grant will be used to support necessary improvements to the community's wastewater system. This investment is part of Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, which increased funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development Water and Environmental programs. "The 2014 Farm Bill increased support to improve rural water infrastructure and help communities across Michigan grow and thrive," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is great news for families and businesses in Filer Township who rely on a safe, clean water supply in their community." The support will be used to repair failed septic systems along the US-31 corridor in Filer Township. Sen. Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
06.04.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Reed City Police Department to Buy New Police Car Thursday, June 04, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Reed City Police Department in Osceola County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $17,250 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Reed City will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
06.03.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Canadian Government Nuclear Waste Site Announcement Wednesday, June 03, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the Canadian government's announcement to collect public comments which will help determine whether or not an underground nuclear waste facility will be built off of the shores of Lake Huron: "I encourage the Canadian government to use this additional time to look closely at the recommendations issued in their own report that acknowledge the significant environmental risks of this project. I have been opposed to this plan from day one and will continue to fight to keep Michigan families and businesses safe by working to stop this waste site from being built."
06.03.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Nearly $9 Million for Detroit Metro Airport to Rehabilitate Taxiway Wednesday, June 03, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for the Metro Detroit Airport to rehabilitate its taxiway. The $8,800,000 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. "This investment will make travelling to and from Southeast Michigan safer and more efficient," said Stabenow. "By supporting Metro Airport, we're also encouraging businesses to invest in the region and create jobs." "Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport is a critical hub for Michigan's economy," Peters said. "This grant will allow the airport to make needed improvements so that it can continue to support Michigan's role as a center for trade, commerce and travel." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
05.29.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Nomination of Pipeline Safety Administrator Friday, May 29, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) applauded the Obama Administration's nomination of Marie Therese Dominguez to lead the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). Senator Stabenow (D-MI), along with Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), urged the Obama Administration last week to nominate a permanent administrator to lead this agency, which is critical to preventing oil pipeline spills and accidents that harm Michigan communities. "Today's announcement of Marie Therese Dominguez to be nominated as the chief pipeline safety enforcer is an important first step for pipeline safety in Michigan. The PHMSA Administrator makes sure pipelines get the safety checks and updates they desperately need and companies who build those pipelines follow the rules. We all remember the devastating pipeline break that spilled nearly one million gallons of oil into the Kalamazoo River. Michigan families and community leaders agree that we simply cannot afford to have that kind of a spill happen on the Great Lakes. I am pleased the Obama Administration acted and I look forward to speaking with Ms. Dominguez about how important it is to keep Michigan's families and waterways safe prior to her Senate confirmation."
05.29.2015	Senator Stabenow: Replacing Aging Soo Locks Critical to Economy, National Security Sen. Stabenow Tours Locks with Army Corps of Engineers, Coast Guard, and Customs and Border Protection; Discusses Need to Build Replacement Lock, Great Lakes Safety and Security Friday, May 29, 2015 Sault Ste. Marie - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow visited the Soo Locks and highlighted the critical role they play in our nation's ability to ship commercial goods from iron ore to wheat. U.S. iron ore, a commodity vital to American manufacturers and our national defense, can only be transported from mines to steel mills by ship in the Great Lakes. Stabenow met with members of the Detroit District of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Coast Guard, and Customs and Border Protection. During the meeting, they discussed the need to upgrade and replace the aging lock infrastructure as well as Great Lakes safety and security. "The Soo Locks are the gateway for Great Lakes freighters carrying staple foods like wheat and materials our manufacturers and military depend on," said Stabenow. "A failure of the aging locks causing even a temporary outage could cost our economy millions of dollars- a cost we cannot afford. I am fully committed to working with the Army Corps to secure the necessary funding to make upgrades and build a replacement lock, ensuring this vital gateway remains open." The Soo Locks are the most critical infrastructure supporting the Great Lakes Navigation System, enabling ships to navigate the St. Mary's River connecting Lake Superior and Lake Huron. The two operating locks at Sault Ste. Marie, the MacArthur Lock and Poe Lock, were constructed in 1948 and 1968 respectively. While upwards of 80 million tons of commodities pass through the Soo Locks annually, only the Poe Lock has the necessary dimensions to pass the largest vessels in operation. Iron ore transported through the Poe Lock and the steel and goods produced from it account for 3.2% of the U.S. gross domestic product. In the event the Poe Lock is out of service, approximately 70% of the Great Lakes tonnage would be unable to pass.
05.28.2015	In Sault Ste. Marie, Senator Stabenow Highlights Bipartisan HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Bill endorsed by Alzheimer’s Association will support 185,000 people in Michigan living with Alzheimer’s and their families Thursday, May 28, 2015 Sault Ste. Marie, MI - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow highlighted legislation to help people who are living with Alzheimer's disease and support those caring for a family member with this devastating illness. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act would provide Alzheimer's patients and their families with much-needed information about the disease and possible treatment options. The bill creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to diagnose more patients with Alzheimer's disease, and will give patients access to a doctor visit to understand the diagnosis, treatment options, and what medical and community services are available. For over 25 years, Sen. Stabenow has been leading the effort to improve the way Alzheimer's Disease is diagnosed, increase support for caregivers, and prioritize research into treatments and a cure. As a State Legislator in the 1980s, she chaired a joint committee of the House Public and Mental Health Committees on Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders to improve the diagnosis, caregiver support and research of the disease. Now, Senator Stabenow is using her new role as Ranking Member of the Senate's Finance Subcommittee on Health to champion early diagnosis and treatment options through Medicare. "The early symptoms of Alzheimer's disease can be terrifying for individuals and their families, especially when they don't know what's happening and don't have a diagnosis," said Senator Stabenow. "The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will give Alzheimer's patients and their families the information and support they need to cope with this heartbreaking disease. Because of the work being done by Michigan advocates and the Alzheimer's Association, this can be the year we have a real breakthrough in the fight against Alzheimer's." "Senator Stabenow has been a longtime champion for people living with Alzheimer's disease and their families," said Heather Addison, Program Director of the U.P. Alzheimer's Association. "Her HOPE for Alzheimer's will help doctors equip patients and those caring for them with the tools they need to deal with this devastating disease." Fewer than half of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's say they were told the diagnosis, according to a just-released 2015 Alzheimer's Association report. In contrast, more than 90 percent of people with the four most common cancers (breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate) say they were told their diagnosis. Alzheimer's disease is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States and Alzheimer's and other dementias will cost the nation $226 billion in 2015 according to the new report. Over the years, studies have shown that providing patients and families with a full range of information and support results in better outcomes for those living with Alzheimer's, including higher quality of care, increased use of needed community services, reduced patient behavioral and psychiatric symptoms, and reduced caregiver stress and depression.
05.28.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, May 28, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters announced support for two fire departments in Southeast Michigan to improve operations and safety. These grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. The Armada Township Fire Department will receive $110,715 and the Springfield Township Fire Department will receive $60,138. "Our firefighters put so much on the line to safeguard our communities, and it's critical that they have the tools they need to stay safe while improving their ability to respond to fires and hazards," said Peters. "This support from the Department of Homeland Security will help these departments enhance their response capabilities so they can improve public safety and stay out of harm's way." "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
05.26.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Introduce Bill to Keep Plastic Beads out of Great Lakes Legislation Will Stop Production of Microbeads Consumed by Fish and Wildlife Tuesday, May 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced legislation to protect the Great Lakes from pollution caused by small, plastic microbeads that are ingredients in certain soaps and personal care products. These microbeads are able to get through water treatment facilities and end up floating in the Great Lakes, where they can build up as plastic pollution and are often mistaken for food by fish. The Microbeads Free Waters Act of 2015 protects the Great Lakes by phasing out the manufacture and sale of microbeads found in household products. Congressmen Fred Upton (R-MI) and Frank Pallone (D-NJ) are sponsors of the companion bill introduced in U.S. House of Representatives. "Microbeads seem like a nice way to get extra ‘scrub' in your soap, but they pose a very real danger to our Great Lakes," said Senator Stabenow, co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "Researchers are finding these bits of plastic building up in our lakes, rivers and streams. When we see these kinds of things are threatening our Great Lakes and potentially threatening fish populations, we need to take swift action." "Millions of tiny synthetic plastic microbeads from products like face wash and toothpaste are being discharged into Michigan's waterways, jeopardizing the Great Lakes ecosystem that our state depends on," said Senator Peters, member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "These non-biodegradable microbeads are acting as a magnet for other dangerous pollutants that threaten the health of our Great Lakes and are then being consumed by fish, birds and other wildlife. I am pleased to support this commonsense, bipartisan effort to phase out the unnecessary use of these plastic microbeads in consumer products, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this critical legislation." This bipartisan bill is sponsored by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY). Additional cosponsors include Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Mark Kirk (R-IL). A report by the State University of New York in Fredonia found anywhere from 1,500 to 1.1 million microbeads per square mile in the Great Lakes, the world's largest source of freshwater.
05.22.2015	Senate Passes Trade Bill that Fails to Protect American Businesses, Jobs Legislation Does Not Hold Other Countries Responsible for Manipulating Currency Friday, May 22, 2015 The U.S. Senate passed trade legislation that fails to crack down on other countries that cheat on the value of their currency. It also does not include any other trade enforcement provisions to protect American jobs. Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) is the legislative vehicle that grants the President fast track authority to negotiate trade deals. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Rob Portman (R-OH) offered an amendment to TPA that would have created a clear negotiating objective directing the Administration to make sure that every trade agreement includes strong, enforceable currency manipulation language. "Tonight's vote is a massive blow to workers and businesses across the country," said Stabenow. "American workers and businesses can compete with anyone when the playing field is level. I am deeply disappointed that this fast track bill doesn't include any trade enforcement language and instead threatens jobs in Michigan." Trade Promotion Authority legislation passed the Senate by a vote of 62-37 and will now advance to the House of Representatives for consideration.
05.22.2015	Stabenow Statement on Vote to Include Enforceable Currency Provisions, Protect American Jobs Friday, May 22, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the Senate vote on her bipartisan amendment to Trade Promotion Authority legislation that would add clear language to require that any future trade agreements include enforceable currency provisions. The amendment failed by a vote of 48-51. "If this fast track trade bill passes the Senate, it is deeply disturbing that it will not include language needed to protect American workers and businesses. Currency manipulation has already cost U.S. workers as many as five million jobs. Cracking down on countries that are breaking the rules is the only way we can make sure our workers and businesses have a fair shot to win in a global marketplace. It's up to us to decide whether America is leading the race to the top, or if we're racing to the bottom. Unfortunately, today's vote is a major step in the wrong direction." The amendment was introduced by Senators Portman (R-OH) and Stabenow.
05.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bill to Expand Advanced Vehicle Technology Expansion of Advanced Technology Vehicle Initiative Will Increase Development of High-Tech Products, Create Manufacturing Jobs Thursday, May 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow introduced legislation to expand an advanced vehicle manufacturing loan program that helps automobile and parts manufacturers to retool their plants to produce more fuel-efficient vehicles. The Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing (ATVM) loan program, authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law in 2007, allows automakers to produce the next generation of vehicles here at home. The Building Better Trucks Act will expand the ATVM program to allow manufacturers of medium- and heavy-duty vehicles and auto part suppliers to qualify for loans under the program. "These retooling loans have helped our businesses innovate, build new high-tech products and create jobs here in America," said Stabenow. "It just makes sense to open up the same opportunities to auto part suppliers and truck makers who are developing cutting-edge fuel efficiency technology. By giving more companies access to affordable capital, we can create good-paying jobs and help families get better gas mileage on their vehicles at the same time." Senator Stabenow authored the ATVM loan program as part of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Since the program was signed into law, ATVM loans have resulted in the manufacturing of over 4 million fuel-efficient advanced vehicles and the creation of 35,000 jobs. Earlier this month, Alcoa, Inc. in Tennessee received a $259 million loan to support its expansion of lightweight aluminum for cars and trucks. It is estimated 600 direct and indirect jobs will be created through this new project.
05.21.2015	Senators Stabenow and Thune Reintroduce Bill to Advance Agricultural Research Thursday, May 21, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Agriculture Committee, and John Thune (R-SD), member of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, today reintroduced legislation to support agricultural research. The Charitable Agricultural Research Act encourages the creation of public-private partnerships to boost funding and spur innovation for agricultural research. Senators Stabenow and Thune, members of the Senate Finance Committee, introduced this legislation last Congress and co-led the passage of a similar bipartisan measure out the Finance Committee in February. "We need to invest in agricultural research if we want to have a strong agricultural industry in America," Stabenow said. "Farmers and ranchers face extraordinary challenges every day, from pests and diseases to droughts and severe weather. Our bill builds on decades of success, giving incentives to new and creative partnerships to fund research into some of agriculture's most pressing challenges." "The Charitable Agricultural Research Act would help facilitate the transfer of much-needed private investment to agricultural research, which would better equip our producers with the tools they need in order to meet the demands of a 21st century global marketplace," said Thune. "This common-sense legislation creates a new means for generous Americans who wish to dedicate their own financial resources to agricultural research to do so more easily." Over the last 60 years, agricultural research has significantly expanded crop, livestock, and food production. Michigan agriculture contributes over $100 billion to the state's economy and exports $3 billion in farm goods annually. In South Dakota, agriculture contributes more than $25 billion to the state's economy and generates nearly $4 billion in exports. However, agricultural scientists warn that failing to invest in agricultural research could spell disaster for the future safety and security of American food. The Charitable Agricultural Research Act seeks to address these challenges by creating agricultural research organizations (AROs) that would work in conjunction with agricultural and land-grant colleges and universities to conduct research in the field of agriculture. The legislation is modeled on medical research organizations (MROs), which were created by Congress in 1956 and have successfully generated billions of dollars of new investment in medical research. The Thune-Stabenow Charitable Agricultural Research Act is cosponsored by Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Thad Cochran (R-MS.), and Jim Inhofe (R-OK).
05.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bill to Advance Agricultural Research Thursday, May 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today introduced legislation to support agricultural research. The Charitable Agricultural Research Act, which is cosponsored by John Thune (R-SD), encourages the creation of public-private partnerships to boost funding and spur innovation for agricultural research. This will allow colleges like Michigan State University to continue their work to help make sure there is a safe and steady food supply for the world's growing population. Senator Stabenow, a senior member of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee, also introduced this legislation last Congress and co-led the passage of a similar bipartisan measure out the U.S. Senate Finance Committee in February. "We need to invest in agricultural research if we want to have a strong agricultural industry in Michigan," Senator Stabenow said. "Farmers and ranchers face extraordinary challenges every day, from pests and diseases to droughts and severe weather. Our bill builds on decades of success, giving incentives to new and creative partnerships to fund research into some of agriculture's most pressing challenges." "This initiative will encourage more private investment into agriculture research and complement current funding programs," said Doug Buhler, Director of Michigan State University AgBioResearch. It will enhance our ability to support food security for our nation now and into the future. Michigan State University supports this effort and hopes that it will become a reality." Over the last 60 years, agricultural research has expanded food production significantly. Michigan agriculture contributes over $100 billion to the state's economy and exports $3 billion in farm goods annually. However, agricultural scientists warn that failing to invest in agricultural research could spell disaster for the future of American food security and safety. The Charitable Agricultural Research Act seeks to address these challenges by creating agricultural research organizations (AROs) that would work in conjunction with agricultural and land-grant colleges and universities to conduct research in the field of agriculture.
05.21.2015	Stabenow, Peters Call for Permanent Administrator to Lead Pipeline Safety Agency Thursday, May 21, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters (MI) joined eight of their Senate colleagues to send a letter urging the White House to nominate a permanent administrator to lead the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), which plays a vital role in protecting communities across Michigan from spills and accidents while ensuring the safe flow of energy products. The most recent permanent PHMSA administrator left the position in October, more than 220 days ago. "Given PHMSA's responsibilities of regulating approximately 2.6 million miles of pipelines that carry natural gas, crude oil, gasoline and other hazardous liquids all over our country, and the critical role the agency plays in regulating crude-by-rail, we are concerned that we still do not have a permanent administrator to lead the Agency," wrote Senators Stabenow, Peters and their colleagues. "PHMSA's responsibilities are incredibly important, and we need a fully empowered administrator to lead this agency." The letter highlights the importance of having a permanent administrator to ensure accountability, develop long-term plans and respond quickly when things go wrong. In 2010, a pipeline break in Michigan sent more than 800,000 gallons of heavy crude oil into the Talmadge Creek and Kalamazoo River. It was the largest inland oil spill in U.S. history, impacting more than 38 miles of the Kalamazoo River and 4,435 acres of adjacent shoreline habitat. Earlier this year, Stabenow and Peters introduced an amendment that would have ensured PHMSA has the resources required to oversee petroleum pipelines, including aging pipelines around the Great Lakes such as those running through the Straits of Mackinac, where a pipeline break could have disastrous impacts on the health of the Great Lakes ecosystem. The amendment would have required PHMSA to certify that they have the resources necessary to conduct proper oversight of pipelines in the Great Lakes before approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline and require PHMSA to develop recommendations for special conditions to apply to pipelines in the Great Lakes, similar to the 59 special conditions developed for Keystone. The full text of the letter is available below, or click here: President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write regarding the absence of a permanent head of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). This Agency plays a vital role in protecting communities across our states and supporting economic development. We respectfully request that you act quickly to nominate an administrator for PHMSA so that the Senate can confirm an individual to this key position. The most recent permanent administrator left the position in October, more than 220 days ago. Given PHMSA's responsibilities of regulating approximately 2.6 million miles of pipelines that carry natural gas, crude oil, gasoline and other hazardous liquids all over our country, and the critical role the agency plays in regulating crude-by-rail, we are concerned that we still do not have a permanent administrator to lead the Agency. PHMSA's responsibilities are incredibly important, and we need a fully empowered administrator to lead this agency. Our states have unfortunately experienced first-hand what happens when old pipelines break. These types of spills highlight the importance of proper oversight and sensible regulations. We rely on pipelines to transport a wide array of products across the country and expect them to be delivered safely. That responsibility grows in size and scope every year as our infrastructure ages and our oil and gas production increases. The recently released Quadrennial Energy Review highlights the substantial need to upgrade the United States' aging energy infrastructure. Additionally, several of our states have experienced crude-by-rail accidents in recent years, emphasizing the need to work to prevent future accidents and reduce the impacts to our communities and the environment when accidents do occur. We realize that having a permanent administrator is not a cure-all, and that the Agency needs adequate resources to carry out its mission. However, Congress provided increased funding to the Agency this year, and we support the Administration's request to significantly increase funding for pipeline and crude-by-rail safety. It is not realistic to think we can expect PHMSA to drastically increase inspections or keep up with these evolving industries without making sensible investments in the Agency. It is important to states like ours that PHMSA have a permanent administrator to ensure accountability, to develop long-term plans for pipeline transport and crude-by-rail safety, and to respond quickly when things unfortunately go wrong. We rely on this Agency to protect our citizens and our environment from damaging spills and accidents, while also ensuring the flow of energy products to those who need them. Accordingly, we respectfully ask that you submit a nomination for PHMSA administrator as soon as practical. Thank you for your attention to this important issue.
05.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Baraga Police Department to Buy New Police Car Thursday, May 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Baraga Police Department in Baraga County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $18,750 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Baraga will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Cheboyan Department of Public Safety to Buy New Police Car Thursday, May 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Cheboyan Department of Public Safety in Cheboygan County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $18,000 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Cheboygan will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.20.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Important Step to Improve and Expand Access to Mental Health Care Wednesday, May 20, 2015 U.S. Debbie Stabenow today announced the launch of a new initiative to expand community mental health services based on her Excellence in Mental Health Act, which was cosponsored by Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO). The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration began the application process for states interested in being selected for a new eight-state demonstration program that will offer patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling, and integrated treatments for mental illness. Last April, President Obama signed into law Senator Stabenow's Excellence in Mental Health Act, which is one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades. "Mental illness touches every family in some way," Senator Stabenow said. "We need to treat illnesses above the neck the same as we treat illnesses below the neck. Today's announcement is the first concrete step in decades to change the tide and make sure communities in Michigan and across the country have the resources they need to help individuals living with mental illness." "Senator Debbie Stabenow is to be commended for her leadership and for championing the Excellence in Mental Health Act which is providing us a pathway to securing better overall mental and physical health resources for society's most vulnerable population," said Tom Watkins, President and CEO of Detroit Wayne Mental Health Authority. "Mental illness touches all of our families and communities in some way - every town, city and state that has dealt with inequality in mental health services for far too long will finally be able to reap the benefits of superior mental healthcare coverage." "The Excellence in Mental Health Act demonstrates the urgency and importance of providing behavioral supports and services to people living in our communities with mental illnesses and co-occurring substance use disorders," said Jeff Patton, CEO of Kalamazoo Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services. "This legislation is so important for people in recovery." States must first apply for planning grants by August 5 and the recipients of those grants are expected to be announced in September. State agencies that are awarded the planning grants will work with interested community mental health centers, Federally-Qualified Health Centers, VA clinics, and other mental health organizations to design a state proposal for participation. Eight state proposals will then be chosen to create a new demonstration program to increase access to community mental health centers and improve the quality of care at those centers. Those programs could then be extended to other states. Senator Stabenow has been a life-long advocate for quality mental health services. She authored the mental health parity provisions in the Affordable Care Act to stop discrimination in coverage between physical and behavioral health services. Senator Stabenow introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act with Senator Roy Blunt in 2013 to put mental health centers on a more equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and expanding access. The law is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Healthcare, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others.
05.20.2015	Senators Stabenow, Blunt Announce Important Step to Improve and Expand Access to Mental Health Care Wednesday, May 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) today announced the launch of a new initiative to expand community mental health services based on her Excellence in Mental Health Act. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration began the application process for states interested in being selected for a new eight-state demonstration program that will offer patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling, and integrated treatments for mental illness. Last April, President Obama signed into law Senators Stabenow and Blunt's Excellence in Mental Health Act, which is one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades. "Mental illness touches every family in some way," Senator Stabenow said. "We need to treat illnesses above the neck the same as we treat illnesses below the neck. Today's announcement is the first concrete step in decades to change the tide and make sure communities in Michigan and across the country have the resources they need to help individuals living with mental illness." "Nearly one in four Americans live with diagnosable mental illness," Senator Blunt said. "We must start to treat behavioral illnesses just like any other physical illness and this program is an important step forward as we work to reach that goal. I'm pleased to see the Excellence in Mental Health Act move forward so we can help communities in Missouri and nationwide come together and have a system to address mental illness." "The Excellence in Mental Health Act will expand Americans' access to lifesaving mental health and addiction care, while supporting providers with the resources they need to serve all individuals in their communities," said Linda Rosenberg, President and CEO of the National Council for Behavioral Health. "Participation in the Excellence Act demonstration program will enable states to supports comprehensive, coordinated behavioral health care. We pledge to continue working side by side with Senators Debbie Stabenow and Roy Blunt to ensure that one day all states will be able to participate." "The Excellence in Mental Health Act is a critical piece of legislation that was developed in response to a huge need in our country," said Dr. Barbara Van Dahlen, founder and president of Give an Hour. "There are far too many Americans who suffer unnecessarily with unmet mental health needs and untreated mental illnesses. Thanks to the launch of the eight-state demonstration project made possible because of Senators Stabenow and Blunt's leadership and this legislation, new and innovative programs designed to improve access to care will be created, refined and replicated. In order to build healthy families and healthy communities - we must change the culture of mental health in America." "Since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School, we at Sandy Hook Promise have advocated for the expansion of critical mental health services so that more people can have access to high quality, integrated mental health care, and those who are in crisis can get help before anyone gets hurt," said Mark Barden, Advocacy Director at Sandy Hook Promise. "These grants will undoubtedly save lives and we are grateful to Senators Stabenow and Blunt for their leadership and tireless advocacy." States must first apply for planning grants by August 5 and the recipients of those grants are expected to be announced in September. State agencies that are awarded the planning grants will work with interested community mental health centers, Federally-Qualified Health Centers, VA clinics, and other mental health organizations to design a state proposal for participation. Eight state proposals will then be chosen to create a new demonstration program to increase access to community mental health centers and improve the quality of care at those centers. Those programs could then be extended to other states. Senator Stabenow has been a life-long advocate for quality mental health services. She authored the mental health parity provisions in the Affordable Care Act to stop discrimination in coverage between physical and behavioral health services. Senator Stabenow introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act with Senator Roy Blunt in 2013 to put mental health centers on a more equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and expanding access. The law is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Healthcare, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others.
05.20.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Sherman Township Volunteer Fire Department Wednesday, May 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $24,848 for the Sherman Township Volunteer Fire Department in Keweenaw County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Sherman Township Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "Our firefighters put so much on the line to safeguard our communities, and it's essential that we do everything we can to keep them safe while improving their ability to respond to fires and hazards," Peters said. "This funding from the Department of Homeland Security will help firefighters in Northern Michigan enhance their response capabilities to help them stay out of harm's way and improve public safety." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
05.20.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Graafschap Fire Department Wednesday, May 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $30,859 for the Graafschap Fire Department in Allegan County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Graafschap Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "Our firefighters put so much on the line to safeguard our communities, and it's essential that we do everything we can to keep them safe while improving their ability to respond to fires and hazards," Peters said. "This funding from the Department of Homeland Security will help firefighters in Laketown and Fillmore townships enhance their response capabilities to help them stay out of harm's way and improve public safety." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
05.20.2015	Stabenow, Peters, Alexander Introduce Vehicle Innovation Act Wednesday, May 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Gary Peters (D-MI), along with Lamar Alexander (R-TN), today introduced the bipartisan Vehicle Innovation Act (VIA) to promote investments in research and development of clean vehicle technologies that will create more fuel efficient vehicles, reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil and support American auto manufacturers. "Our automakers are surging back with new innovations and new technologies, and we need to keep that momentum going," said Senator Stabenow. "The Vehicle Innovation Act will help our manufacturers and suppliers research and develop technologies to make more fuel-efficient vehicles, reducing costs at the pump and reducing our dependence on foreign oil. By strengthening public-private partnerships in Michigan and across the country, we can make sure our workers and businesses have the right technologies to drive our economy forward." "The American auto industry has come roaring back, but we must ensure our auto manufacturers and suppliers continue to lead the way in developing the cutting-edge technologies that will help them compete globally," said Senator Peters. "Encouraging partnerships that focus on innovative research will help develop the next generation of fuel efficient automobiles here at home, reducing our depending on foreign oil and lowering fuels costs for businesses and consumers. I'm proud to work with Senators Alexander and Stabenow to introduce this important bipartisan legislation that makes smart investments in our advanced manufacturing industry, creates good-paying middle class jobs and ensures that the cars and trucks of the future are built in the United States and in Michigan." The Vehicle Innovation Act reauthorizes the Department of Energy's Vehicle Technologies Program, which works with light duty automobile and medium and heavy duty commercial truck manufacturers and suppliers to conduct research and development to improve fuel efficiency in vehicles. The bill directs the Department of Energy to partner with public and private sector entities to promote technology-neutral research and investment which will include a diverse array of technologies including hybrids, battery electric vehicles and natural gas-powered vehicles, that will reduce our dependence on imported oil, support domestic research and development and grow our advanced manufacturing industry in the United States. The Vehicle Technologies Program has been operating without Congressional authorization for over seven years, and in that time, new technologies and new applications of existing technologies have been developed. The bill will encourage further research and development of technologies including mild hybrid, engine down speeding, power pack modeling and testing, advanced boosting systems, new vehicle sensing and communication, hydrogen and natural gas refueling and electric vehicle charging technology. The legislation will also give the Department of Energy critical resources to focus on near-term developments that could lead to significant fuel savings for the national fleet if widely used. The legislation authorizes $313.6 million in funding for FY2016, and a four percent increase to each year after that through 2020, providing a consistent growth in funding to keep up with emerging technologies. The Vehicle Innovation Act also includes provisions to specifically include vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communications systems, collectively referred to as V2X. V2X technology has the potential to dramatically reduce traffic accidents and traffic congestion by allowing cars to communicate with one another and recognize dangers beyond what a vehicle's radar, cameras or other sensors can detect. The bill is supported by organizations including the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA), the BlueGreen Alliance, the Auto Alliance and NTEA, the Association for the Work Truck Industry. "The Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) applauds Sens. Peters, Alexander and Stabenow for the introduction of the Vehicle Innovation Act. This legislation will allow motor vehicle suppliers to conduct the necessary research and development activities to assist vehicle manufacturers to meet future fuel efficiency and emissions requirements. The programs in this bill will support domestic research and manufacturing activities and lead to greater consumer choice of vehicle technologies," said Steve Handschuh, President and Chief Executive Officer of MEMA. "Investing in advanced vehicle technology research, innovation, commercialization and manufacturing is critical to position America to lead in a clean, modern, global economy," said Kim Glas, Executive Director of the BlueGreen Alliance. "Enhancing research, development and commercialization of advanced car and truck technology as laid out in today's bill - together with separate measures to spur manufacturing will drive growth across the auto manufacturing supply chain, securing current jobs and growing new ones that will continue our manufacturing recovery nationwide. We thank Senators Peters, Alexander and Stabenow for introducing this bill and its contribution to advancing American competitiveness and growth." "The Auto Alliance applauds Sens. Peters, Stabenow and Alexander for the introduction of the Vehicle Innovation Act of 2015," said Mitch Bainwol, Auto Alliance president and CEO. "Automakers are focused on the deployment of advanced technology and alternative fuel vehicles to help address our nation's energy security and environmental concerns. The next generation of fuel-efficient technologies requires significant investments in research, design, development, testing and certification as they are developed and refined for use on the various types of vehicles needed by American consumers. This legislation will help ensure that our industry partners throughout the vast automotive supply chain are supported in the research on and development of these advanced technologies." "NTEA commends this long-term commitment to the motor vehicle industry. In order to meet the future needs of vocational truck users, the work truck industry likely will need to employ advanced technologies and deploy more alternatively fueled trucks," said Steve Carey, executive director with NTEA - The Association for the Work Truck Industry. "The government needs to be a partner in this goal for it to be accomplished in a timely and reasonable manner. The Vehicle Innovation Act would positively formalize partnerships with industry-led stakeholder organizations, nonprofit organizations, and trade associations with expertise in advanced automotive and commercial vehicle technologies." The bill is also supported by the UAW, the League of Conservation Voters, the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club, the American Automotive Policy Council, the Electric Drive Transportation Association, Robert Bosch LLC, the LORD Corporation, Umicore and Bergstrom.
05.19.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Amendment to Include Strong, Enforceable Currency Language in U.S. Trade Deals Tuesday, May 19, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today offered a bipartisan amendment that would add clear language to require that any future trade agreements include enforceable currency provisions. Currency manipulation is the most significant 21st century trade barrier that American manufacturers face today and has resulted in the loss of as many as five million jobs in the United States. "Instead of fast-tracking trade, we need to fast-track the middle class by putting policies in place that will allow our businesses and workers to compete and win on a level playing field. Our trade agreements need to have strong, enforceable currency manipulation language." A strong U.S. dollar against a weak foreign currency - particularly one that is artificially weak due to government manipulation - causes foreign products to be cheaper in the United States and for U.S. products to be more expensive in countries that manipulate their currencies. According to Ford, the weak yen gives Japanese automakers an added $6,000 in profit on the average car and as much as $11,000 more profit per vehicle, depending on the make and model. This amendment was introduced by Senators Portman (R-OH) and Stabenow and cosponsored by Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bob Casey (D-PA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Al Franken (D-MN), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Richard Burr (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Susan Collins (R-ME).
05.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Receives Award at Wayne County Medical Society Foundation Gala Saturday, May 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow delivered remarks and received an award for her health care leadership at the Wayne County Medical Society Foundation Gala on Saturday, May 16. The Wayne County Medical Society, which is the largest medical society in the State of Michigan, established the foundation in 1987 to improve the health and well-being of community members. Senator Stabenow has worked to expand access to affordable and quality health care, including leading the effort to open and fund community health centers across Michigan. For years, she has fought to provide a stable source of funding for doctors and seniors under Medicare, which led to the Senate's passage in April of legislation that fixed the current payment formula and prevented cuts. Additionally, Senator Stabenow succeeded in averting a 70-percent cut to Federally Qualified Health Centers by working to pass legislation that maintains support for two years.
05.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Delivered Remarks at 2nd Annual Detroit Caregiver Support Conference Saturday, May 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, member of the Assisting Caregivers Today Caucus, delivered remarks at the 2nd Annual Detroit Caregiver Support Conference on Saturday, May 16. The event provided information to caregivers on legal resources, programs and services available for older adults and their caregivers. More than 5 million Americans, including 185,000 people in Michigan, are living with Alzheimer's disease, and more than 15 million people serve as their caregivers. Senator Stabenow's Health Outcomes, Planning and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act - introduced in March - promotes the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease under Medicare.
05.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Delivered Remarks at 24th Annual Komen Detroit Race for the Cure Saturday, May 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, honorary co-chair of this year's race, delivered remarks at the 24th Annual Komen Detroit Race for the Cure on Saturday, May 16. The event, which was organized by Susan G. Komen and the Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute, honored breast cancer survivors and celebrated the lives of those we have lost. "Too many women in Michigan and across the country are affected by breast cancer," said Stabenow. "Thanks to advocates and organizations like those in Detroit today, our mothers, daughters and sisters have a better shot at living healthy, cancer-free lives." In Michigan, breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths. For years, Senator Stabenow has fought for affordable and quality health care for women and supported increased medical research. Just this week, Senator Stabenow cosponsored the Accelerating the End of Breast Cancer Act to help end breast cancer by 2020.
05.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on the Passing of Ortheia Barnes Saturday, May 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the passing of Detroit singer, community activist, and ordained minister Ortheia Barnes: "I join with friends in Detroit to celebrate the life and talent of our friend Ortheia Barnes. She was an important part of the tapestry of the Detroit music scene and we will always be grateful to have heard her beautiful, soulful voice. In recent years, she used her powerful voice to lift up The Lord through her outreach ministry. She will be greatly missed."
05.14.2015	Stabenow Applauds Passage of Customs Enforcement Legislation Thursday, May 14, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow applauded Senate passage of S. 1269, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015. This bill makes permanent two provisions in Senator Stabenow's Trade Enforcement Act. It creates a permanent Interagency Trade Enforcement Center and for the first time, creates a Chief Manufacturing Negotiator at the Office of the United States Trade Representative who will be responsible for protecting the interests of domestic manufacturers in trade negotiations. For years, Sen. Stabenow has led the fight to toughen enforcement of existing trade agreements and hold other countries accountable for artificially undervaluing their currency. "The passage of today's bill is an important step forward in strengthening our trade enforcement efforts including, for the first time, strong enforcement tools to address currency manipulation in the price of products that are coming into America. Countries like China have been cheating regarding the value of their currency for years, and it's time they are held responsible. This bill will give the Administration important new tools they need to help crack down on countries that are breaking the rules, which will ensure our workers and businesses have a fair shot to compete and win in a global marketplace. The next critical step is to pass the Portman-Stabenow amendment that will create a clear negotiating objective to make sure that every trade agreement includes strong, enforceable currency manipulation language." Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) have offered a bipartisan amendment to Trade Promotion Authority, which will be considered on the Senate floor next week, and would add clear language to require that any future trade deals must include enforceable currency provisions. These provisions would ensure domestic producers can compete on a level playing field when they export their products to other countries.
05.12.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Roscommon County Sheriff’s Department to Buy New Police Car Tuesday, May 12, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Roscommon County Sheriff's Department. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $15,000 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Roscommon County will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Senate Passage of Measure to Free Amir Hekmati Monday, May 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters applauded the Senate passage of a bipartisan measure calling on Iran to immediately release Amir Hekmati, an imprisoned former U.S. Marine. Hekmati has been held captive by the Iranian government since 2011. Iran had originally accused Hekmati of espionage and sentenced him to death, but the Iranian Supreme Court threw out that charge and sentenced him to 10 years in prison instead. The resolution was cosponsored by Senators Stabenow and Peters and calls for the release of all the U.S. hostages being held in Iran, including Amir Hekmati, Saeed Abedini, Jason Rezaian, and Robert Levinson. "Iran has a long track record of arresting Americans and using trumped up charges to hold them as political prisoners," said Senator Stabenow. "Amir is a hero who proudly served his country, and Iran needs to release him immediately!" "In order for Iran to re-enter the international community, it must among other reforms, release the U.S. hostages they are senselessly holding in their country, including Amir Hekmati," said Senator Peters. "I call on Iran to immediately free Amir and the other Americans they have imprisoned and put a stop to these political hostage-taking stunts." "For 1,351 days, our son, brother, and Marine veteran Amir Hekmati, has been held inside the walls of Evin prison," said the Hekmati family. "He has been imprisoned in Iran longer than any other American in history and, as of last Monday, Amir has gone on a hunger strike. Amir has committed no crime, yet he has been sentenced to ten years for cooperating with a hostile country, presumably because of his service in the United States Marines. Even based on Iran's own laws, his military service is not illegal, making his imprisonment arbitrary. While imprisoned, he has been mistreated, abused, and tortured. While imprisoned, our father battles terminal brain cancer. Time is running out. We need all of your support to bring Amir home now." Amir Hekmati holds both Iranian and American citizenship and served as a U.S. Marine between 2001 and 2005. The resolution is sponsored by Senator James Risch (R-ID). Additional cosponsors include Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK). Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) is leading a similar resolution in the House.
05.09.2015	Senator Stabenow Delivered Remarks at Armed Forces Remembrance Day Ceremony in Taylor Saturday, May 09, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow honored Michigan veterans during the Armed Forces Remembrance Day Ceremony on Saturday, May 9. Senator Stabenow delivered remarks at the event, which celebrated veterans who served all branches of the military. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure veterans and active services members have access to the care and resources they need. She has led efforts to bring VA clinics to Michigan - including Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Grayling, and Mackinaw City - so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment.
05.08.2015	Senator Stabenow Honors John D. Dingell During 10th Annual Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge Benefit Dinner Friday, May 08, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow honored the legacy of former Congressman John Dingell during the 10th Annual Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge Benefit Dinner in Wyandotte. The dinner supports the Refuge, which was championed in 2001 by Congressman Dingell to restore the Detroit Riverfront and surrounding ecosystem. "The Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge is the ultimate tribute to the hard work and vision of John D. Dingell," said Stabenow. "Today, the Friends of the Refuge are building on what he started, restoring wildlife habitats and increasing public access so Michigan families can continue to kayak, fish, or hunt in the Refuge for years to come." The Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge, which covers 48 miles of shoreline, is the only international wildlife refuge in North America.
05.07.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Canadian Government Report Assessing Lake Huron Nuclear Waste Site Thursday, May 07, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the Canadian government's report examining the environmental and public health effects of a proposed nuclear waste facility to be built on the shores of Lake Huron: "I am deeply disappointed by the Canadian government's review of the proposed nuclear waste site on the shores of Lake Huron. By including a number of recommendations, the report clearly recognizes significant environmental risks, and I'm not willing to take chances with the fate of our Great Lakes hoping these recommendations will be followed. I have been opposed to this plan from day one and will continue to fight to keep Michigan families and businesses safe by urging the Canadian government to stop this project from being built."
05.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $22,273 for First Responders in Montcalm County Wednesday, May 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Montcalm County Emergency Services has been awarded $22,273 from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The funding can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness program equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. "Our emergency responders put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help Montcalm County Emergency Services buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "I am pleased that Montcalm County is receiving this critical funding that will go a long way towards training and equipping first responders with the tools needed to keep our communities safe," said Senator Peters. "Through this funding, Montcalm County will be better prepared to respond to fire and other emergency hazards, and this is another step towards making our neighborhoods safer places to grow up and raise a family." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. During FY 2014, approximately $305.4 million in grants will be rewarded. Since 2001, AFG has awarded nearly $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations for equipment, training, and emergency vehicles.
05.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $294,637 for First Responders in Bedford Township Wednesday, May 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that the Bedford Township Fire Department has been awarded $294,637 from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The funding can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness program equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Bedford Township Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "I am pleased that Bedford Township will be receiving this critical funding that will go a long way towards training and equipping first responders with the tools needed to keep our communities safe," said Senator Peters. "Through this funding, Bedford Township will be better prepared to respond to fire and other emergency hazards, and this is another step towards making our neighborhoods safer places to grow up and raise a family." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. During FY 2014, approximately $305.4 million in grants will be rewarded. Since 2001, AFG has awarded nearly $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations for equipment, training, and emergency vehicles.
05.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $43,334 for First Responders in Central Lake Wednesday, May 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that Central Lake Fire & Rescue has been awarded $43,334 from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The funding can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness program equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Senator Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Central Lake Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "I am pleased that Central Lake will be receiving this critical funding that will go a long way towards training and equipping first responders with the tools needed to keep our communities safe," said Senator Peters. "Through this funding, Central Lake will be better prepared to respond to fire and other emergency hazards, and this is another step towards making our neighborhoods safer places to grow up and raise a family." The Department of Homeland Security's AFG Program awards grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS), and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded through a competitive process to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. During FY 2014, approximately $305.4 million in grants will be rewarded. Since 2001, AFG has awarded nearly $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations for equipment, training, and emergency vehicles.
05.05.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce More Than $5 Million to Expand Access to Quality Care in Michigan Tuesday, May 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced federal support for new Michigan Community Health Center locations and to expand access to affordable and quality care. The funding comes through the Health Resources and Services Administration's Health Center New Access Point program, which was made available by the Affordable Care Act. "Today's announcement will help community health centers open new locations and provide basic medical services to thousands of patients," said Stabenow. "Thanks to this support, families across Michigan will have access to the health care they need. Without centers like these, patients could be forced to turn to the emergency room, which is a much greater cost for communities." "Michigan's health centers provide important access to comprehensive health services and offer quality medical care for patients who are often underserved or lack access to care," Peters said. "Michiganders rely on these clinics for their primary health care needs, and these awards will help health centers offer accessible services to more than 28,000 new patients across our state."$5,056,209 was awarded to health centers across Michigan, including centers that provide extensive mental health services. This funding is projected to support 28,804 new patients. Community health centers play a vital role in delivering health care service in high-need communities, whose residents typically lack insurance. Below is a list of the health center awardees and award amounts: ALCONA CITIZENS FOR HEALTH, INC. in LINCOLN, MI -- $704,167 CENTER FOR FAMILY HEALTH, INC. in JACKSON, MI -- $561,809 CHERRY STREET SERVICES, INC. in GRAND RAPIDS, MI -- $608,333 DETROIT HEALTH CARE FOR THE HOMELESS in DETROIT, MI -- $483,333 ISABELLA CITIZENS FOR HEALTH, INC. in MOUNT PLEASANT, MI -- $704,167 OAKLAND INTEGRATED HEALTHCARE NETWORK in PONTIAC, MI -- $704,167 STERLING AREA HEALTH CENTER in STERLING, MI -- $598,566 CHARTER COUNTY OF WAYNE in DETROIT, MI -- $691,667 MICHIGAN TOTAL: 8 awards to serve a proposed 28,804 new patients -- $5,056,209
05.05.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $697,125 Federal Investment for Grand Rapids Home for Veterans Tuesday, May 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $697,125 federal investment at the Grand Rapids Home for Veterans from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The funding will go towards installing emergency generators and a hot water system. This is in addition to a previously announced $446,875 federal investment for the Grand Rapids Home for Veterans which will install an anti-wander and security system. "America's veterans have made great sacrifices in defense of our country, and we owe them our unwavering support," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement means that our veterans in Grand Rapids will have better access to the reliable services they need and deserve." "We must keep the promises we've made to our servicemembers after their military service , and ensuring facilities that house America's veterans have up-to-date equipment is vital," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "I'm proud to announce this investment that will further support the Grand Rapids Home for Veterans, which serves veterans from across West Michigan." The Grand Rapids Home for Veterans stretches across 90 acres and provides critical long-term care to veterans, from rehabilitation therapy to spiritual, social, recreational and educational activities. The facility hosts 450 nursing care beds and more than 100 domiciliary beds. The nursing care beds include 115 special needs beds, with two 35-bed nursing units for the care of Alzheimer's and dementia patients and one 45-bed nursing unit for dual diagnoses patients. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure they have access to the care and resources they need. She has led efforts to bring VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. In recent years, new clinics have opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Grayling, and Mackinaw City. Senator Peters has been a strong voice for Michigan service members and veterans in Congress. Earlier this year, Peters cosponsored the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, bipartisan legislation that was signed into law by the President earlier this year to provide additional resources to improve mental health care and suicide prevention programs for veterans.
04.29.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Addison Township Fire Department Wednesday, April 29, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $14,934 for the Addison Township Fire Department in Oakland County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Addison Township Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "Firefighters in Oakland County take on risky situations every single day to keep our communities safe, and they should have the tools they need to stay out of harm's way and better protect our families," Peters said. "This support from the Department of Homeland Security will enhance their ability to effectively respond to fires and other emergencies." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.29.2015	Senator Stabenow Introduces Legislation to Make College a Reality for Disadvantaged Students Wednesday, April 29, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today introduced legislation to make sure that students who work hard to get into college can enroll regardless of their financial circumstances. The Early Pell Promise Act will dedicate two years of Pell Grants to qualifying middle school students. That funding will be available upon graduation to help pay for tuition at a college or university. Modeled after the successful Kalamazoo Promise, this legislation will give students and their families the opportunity and information they need to earn a college degree. "Too many young people in Michigan aren't aware of the resources available to help them find the right college, let alone how to make it a reality," Senator Stabenow said. "Every child in America, no matter their financial situation, should know that if they work hard, study hard, and get good grades, the opportunity to attend college will be available after high school." "This bill provides an important change to students' eligibility for Pell Grants by making a commitment of funding to them while they are still in the 8th grade, rather than having to wait until late in their senior year of high school," said Don Heller, Dean of MSU's College of Education. "This early commitment will provide an incentive for students to take the steps required to prepare them for college throughout all four years of high school, including preparing themselves academically. I hope that this bill will receive broad support in the Senate."This legislation is inspired by the Kalamazoo Promise, created in 2005, which provides hope and inspiration to students who have attended Kalamazoo Public Schools by paying for their college tuition at any of Michigan's state colleges or universities. Senator Stabenow's Early Pell Promise Act was also inspired by Vice President Biden's Early Federal Pell Grant Commitment Demonstration Act, which was authorized in the Higher Education Opportunity Act in 2008. Numerous studies, including one conducted by the Institute For College Access and Success, show that the earlier students are given information about financial aid options and benefits of post-secondary education, the more likely they are to finish high school and go to college. This bill would provide college financial aid information to students and their families in 8th grade based on enrollment in the National School Lunch Program. The bill also provides a commitment to these students that if they work hard and graduate they will receive the maximum Pell grant award for their first two years of college. The Early Pell Promise Act has been endorsed by the National Education Association, ED Trust, American Association of Community Colleges, and Michigan College Access Network.
04.29.2015	Stabenow, Peters Applaud $446,875 Federal Investment for Grand Rapids Home for Veterans Wednesday, April 29, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded a $446,875 federal investment in the Grand Rapids Home for Veterans. The grant, which comes from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), will go towards installing an anti-wander and security system. "America's heroes selflessly put their lives on the line to protect our country," Senator Stabenow said. "Today's announcement is great news for our veterans in Grand Rapids. Not only will this new security system help make sure they stay safe, it will give their families peace of mind." "Our brave men and women in uniform have defended our country and freedom, and they deserve the best care possible," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "We must keep the promises that we have made to our veterans, and I applaud this critical investment that will help keep Michigan veterans safe." The Grand Rapids Home for Veterans stretches across 90 acres and provides critical long-term care to veterans, from rehabilitation therapy to spiritual, social, recreational and educational activities. The facility hosts 450 nursing care beds and more than 100 domiciliary beds. The nursing care beds include 115 special needs beds, with two 35-bed nursing units for the care of Alzheimer's and dementia patients and one 45-bed nursing unit for dual diagnoses patients. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure they have access to the care and resources they need. She has led efforts to bring VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. In recent years, new clinics have opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Grayling, and Mackinaw City. Senator Peters has been a strong voice for Michigan service members and veterans in Congress. Earlier this year, Peters cosponsored the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, bipartisan legislation that was signed into law by the President earlier this year to provide additional resources to improve mental health care and suicide prevention programs for veterans.
04.28.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Marriage Equality Case Before the Supreme Court Tuesday, April 28, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the marriage case that is being argued today before the Supreme Court. Two of the plaintiffs in Obergefell v. Hodges, April DeBoer and Jayne Rowse, are from Michigan. "Jayne and April have opened their hearts and created a beautiful, loving family that deserves the same recognition, respect and dignity as all other families in Michigan. Their case is highlighting the urgent need to make sure all families are treated equally by the law."
04.27.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Lake Odessa Police Department to Buy New Police Car Monday, April 27, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Lake Odessa Police Department in Ionia County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $6,000 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Lake Odessa will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.23.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Confirmation of Loretta Lynch as Attorney General Thursday, April 23, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the Senate confirmation of Loretta Lynch as the next Attorney General of the United States: "Today history was made as the Senate voted to confirm Loretta Lynch to be the first African American woman to serve our country as U.S. Attorney General. Ms. Lynch's experience as a prosecutor and a U.S. attorney with a long-standing history of defending the law makes her eminently qualified to lead the Justice Department and enforce the rule of law. It took Senate Republicans over five months to put politics aside and bring Loretta Lynch's historic vote to the Senate floor, even though she has been ready for the job since day one."
04.23.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Finance Committee Passage of Trade Promotion Authority Thursday, April 23, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the Senate Finance Committee passage of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation: "The United States is in a global marketplace and it's up to us to decide whether America is leading the race to the top, or if we're racing to the bottom. Workers in Michigan have seen what happens when bad trade deals get fast-tracked that hurt our manufacturers and drive down wages. Michigan families simply cannot afford to take home smaller paychecks or watch their good-paying jobs go overseas. Without strong, enforceable language that keeps countries from cheating on currency, labor, and environmental standards, we risk exporting our jobs instead of our products. "Instead of fast-tracking trade, we need to fast-track the middle class by putting policies in place that will allow our businesses and workers to compete on a level playing field, spur job growth here at home, and strengthen opportunities for American working families."
04.22.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Senate Passage of Legislation to Stop Human Trafficking Wednesday, April 22, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding Senate passage of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015: "There are more than 20 million human trafficking victims across the world, including millions of women and children in our own country. I am pleased that my Republican colleagues finally agreed to put an end to the partisan gridlock that has kept this bill from being passed for weeks. Once this legislation is signed into law, law enforcement officials will have the tools they need to stop these horrific crimes from happening and help victims of human trafficking rebuild their lives."
04.22.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Mackinac Island Fire Department Wednesday, April 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $20,477 for the Mackinac Island Fire Department. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Mackinac Island Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "It is critical that our firefighters have the tools they need to stay safe while they work to protect our communities," Peters said. "First-responders on Mackinac Island brave incredibly dangerous situations, and this support from the Department of Homeland Security will improve their ability to effectively manage these hazards." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.22.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Mount Forest Township Volunteer Fire Department Wednesday, April 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $132,667 for the Mount Forest Township Volunteer Fire Department in Bay County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help the Mount Forest Fire Department buy the equipment they need to safely protect their community." "It is critical that our firefighters have the tools they need to stay safe while they work to protect our communities," Peters said. "First-responders in Mt. Forest brave incredibly dangerous situations, and this support from the Department of Homeland Security will improve their ability to effectively manage these hazards." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.22.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Saugatuck Township Fire District Wednesday, April 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced $137,620 for the Saugatuck Township Fire District in Allegan County. This grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help our fire departments buy the equipment they need to safely protect their communities." "It is critical that our firefighters have the tools they need to stay safe while they work to protect our communities," Peters said. "First-responders in Saugatuck brave incredibly dangerous situations, and this support from the Department of Homeland Security will improve their ability to effectively manage these hazards." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.22.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support for Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Wednesday, April 22, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support for four fire departments in Southeast Michigan to improve operations and safety. These grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. The Ann Arbor Fire Department will receive $357,050; the Garden City Fire Department will receive $163,691; the Warren Fire Department will receive $79,546; and Bloomfield Township Fire Department will receive $155,377. "Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families, homes, and communities safe," said Stabenow. "These new resources will help our fire departments buy the equipment they need to safely protect their communities." "It is critical that our firefighters have the tools they need to stay safe while they work to protect our communities," Peters said. "First-responders in Southeast Michigan brave incredibly dangerous situations, and this support from the Department of Homeland Security will improve their ability to effectively manage these hazards." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.22.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Announcement of More Than $8 Million for Michigan Water Projects Wednesday, April 22, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today applauded the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement that three Michigan projects in Standish Township in Arenac County and Village of Mesick in Wexford County will receive $8,397,000 to support necessary improvements to local water and wastewater systems. This major investment is part of Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, which increased funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development Water and Environmental programs. "The 2014 Farm Bill increased support to improve rural water infrastructure and help communities across Michigan grow and thrive," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is great news for families and small businesses in Standish and Mesick who rely on a safe, clean water supply in their communities." Two projects in Standish Township will receive $5,510,000 in grants and loans for a new sewer collection system and a new water distribution system. The Village of Mesick will get $2,887,000 to make improvements to their sewer system. Sen. Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects. Standish Township will receive the following for a new sewer collection system:Loans: $786,000Grants: $2,355,000 Standish Township will receive the following for a new water distribution system:Loans: $593,000Grants: $1,776,000 The Village of Mesick will receive the following for sewer system improvements:Loans: $1,732,000Grants: $1,155,000
04.22.2015	Senator Stabenow Honors Michigan Veterans at World War II Memorials Wednesday, April 22, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today welcomed 76 Michigan World War II and Korean War veterans who came to Washington from the Upper Peninsula by Honor Flight Network to visit the World War II and Korean War memorials. "It is always a great privilege to honor Michigan's brave men and women who put their lives on the line to protect our country," said Stabenow. "The mission of the Honor Flight Network is a fitting tribute to our Greatest Generation and I was pleased to see that, despite the snow in the UP, they were able to make it out to see their memorials firsthand." There are more than 600,000 veterans currently living in Michigan. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure they have access to the care and resources they need. She has led efforts to bring VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. In recent years, new clinics have opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Clare, Grayling, and Mackinaw City. The Michigan veterans visited the World War II and Korean War memorials. At the end of the day, veterans will be presented with personalized notes from family, friends and students thanking them for their service.
04.21.2015	Senators Stabenow Statement on Selfridge Air National Guard Base Deployment Tuesday, April 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the announcement that 350 airmen and 12 A-10 Thunderbolt II planes will be deployed to the Middle East to fight the Islamic State as part of Operation Inherent Resolve. "For so many families in Michigan, the fight against ISIL is deeply personal. Today, that fight is personal to many more families as these Airmen from Selfridge Air National Guard Base deploy to the region. The A-10 Warthogs are the very best close air-support aircraft in the United States military. We in Michigan are proud of our fleet, which has done so much over the years to protect our nation. I join Michigan families everywhere in wishing these 350 Airmen Godspeed as they embark on their important mission, and we remember especially their families and friends who will stay behind and support them with their prayers as well." More than 4,000 full-time civilian and military personnel work at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. The base contributes hundreds of millions of dollars to Michigan's economy each year. In March, Senators Stabenow and Peters sent a letter to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense requesting full funding of the A-10 program.
04.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on the Passing of A. Alfred Taubman Tuesday, April 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the passing of businessman, philanthropist, and Michigan native A. Alfred Taubman. Funeral services for Taubman will be held today in Southfield. "Al Taubman was an American visionary who will be remembered for his vast generosity and commitment to creating opportunities for Michigan families. A successful entrepreneur, Al shared his hard-earned success by giving back to our communities and universities, funding medical research, and donating to the arts. His legacy as a philanthropist will have a lasting impact for decades. As he is laid to rest today, my thoughts and prayers are with his wife Judith and the Taubman family during this difficult time."
04.20.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $34,241 Investment for Veterans Housing in Upper Peninsula Monday, April 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $34,241 investment in the Upper Peninsula to provide assistance to help end veteran homelessness. The assistance is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. "America's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of this country and its citizens," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help get our heroes off the streets and into permanent homes." "Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to defend our country, and we must ensure they have our full support when they return home and begin the transition back to civilian life," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "On any given night, there are nearly 50,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads. This investment provides much needed assistance to help homeless veterans in the Upper Peninsula find a permanent place to call home, and helps keep our promise to support our service members, veterans and their families." The HUD-VASH program combines rental assistance vouchers from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by the VA to help homeless veterans find and keep permanent housing. VA Medical Centers are responsible for assessing homeless veterans and referring them to local housing agencies for rental vouchers. Vouchers are awarded based on an individual's duration of homelessness and need for long-term support to maintain permanent housing. The State of Michigan is receiving a total investment of $1.6 million for the program. Upper Peninsula organizations receiving assistance for the HUD-VASH program include: • Michigan State Housing Development Authority and Oscar G. Johnson (Iron Mountain) VA Medical Center, $34,241 Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters recently signed a bipartisan letter calling for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that work to end veteran homelessness. He also recently toured the Volunteers of America (VOA) in Lansing, where he saw firsthand the work the VOA is doing to support Michigan's veterans and combat veteran homelessness. Through transitional housing, case management and employment help, the VOA works to prevent low-income veterans and their families from falling into homelessness.
04.20.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $99,691 Investment for Veterans Housing in Lansing Area Monday, April 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced today a $99,691 investment in the Lansing area to provide assistance to help end veteran homelessness. The assistance is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. "America's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of this country and its citizens," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help get our heroes off the streets and into permanent homes." "Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to defend our country, and we must ensure they have our full support when they return home and begin the transition back to civilian life," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "On any given night, there are nearly 50,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads. This investment provides much needed assistance to help homeless veterans in Lansing find a permanent place to call home, and helps keep our promise to support our service members, veterans and their families." The HUD-VASH program combines rental assistance vouchers from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by the VA to help homeless veterans find and keep permanent housing. VA Medical Centers are responsible for assessing homeless veterans and referring them to local housing agencies for rental vouchers. Vouchers are awarded based on an individual's duration of homelessness and need for long-term support to maintain permanent housing. The State of Michigan is receiving a total investment of $1.6 million for the program. Lansing area organizations receiving assistance for the HUD-VASH program include: • Lansing Housing Commission and Battle Creek VA Medical Center/Lansing Community-Based Outpatient Clinic, $99,691 Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters recently signed a bipartisan letter calling for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that work to end veteran homelessness. He also recently toured the Volunteers of America (VOA) in Lansing, where he saw firsthand the work the VOA is doing to support Michigan's veterans and combat veteran homelessness. Through transitional housing, case management and employment help, the VOA works to prevent low-income veterans and their families from falling into homelessness.
04.20.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $1.1 million Investment for Veterans Housing in Detroit Area Monday, April 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $1.1 million investment in the Detroit area to provide assistance to help end veteran homelessness. The assistance is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. "America's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of this country and its citizens," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help get our heroes off the streets and into permanent homes." "Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to defend our country, and we must ensure they have our full support when they return home and begin the transition back to civilian life," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "On any given night, there are nearly 50,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads. This investment provides much needed assistance to help homeless veterans in metro Detroit find a permanent place to call home, and helps keep our promise to support our service members, veterans and their families." The HUD-VASH program combines rental assistance vouchers from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by the VA to help homeless veterans find and keep permanent housing. VA Medical Centers are responsible for assessing homeless veterans and referring them to local housing agencies for rental vouchers. Vouchers are awarded based on an individual's duration of homelessness and need for long-term support to maintain permanent housing. The State of Michigan is receiving a total investment of $1.6 million for the program. Detroit area organizations receiving assistance for the HUD-VASH program include: • Michigan State Housing Development Authority and John Dingell (Detroit) VA Medical Center, $992,990• Ann Arbor Housing Commission and VA Ann Arbor Health Care System, $138,310 Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters recently signed a bipartisan letter calling for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that work to end veteran homelessness. He also recently toured the Volunteers of America (VOA) in Lansing, where he saw firsthand the work the VOA is doing to support Michigan's veterans and combat veteran homelessness. Through transitional housing, case management and employment help, the VOA works to prevent low-income veterans and their families from falling into homelessness.
04.20.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $184,396 Investment for Veterans Housing in Flint Area Monday, April 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $184,396 investment in the Flint area to provide assistance to help end veteran homelessness. The assistance is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. "America's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of this country and its citizens," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help get our heroes off the streets and into permanent homes." "Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to defend our country, and we must ensure they have our full support when they return home and begin the transition back to civilian life," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "On any given night, there are nearly 50,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads. This investment provides much needed assistance to help homeless veterans in the Flint area find a permanent place to call home, and helps keep our promise to support our service members, veterans and their families." The HUD-VASH program combines rental assistance vouchers from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by the VA to help homeless veterans find and keep permanent housing. VA Medical Centers are responsible for assessing homeless veterans and referring them to local housing agencies for rental vouchers. Vouchers are awarded based on an individual's duration of homelessness and need for long-term support to maintain permanent housing. The State of Michigan is receiving a total investment of $1.6 million for the program. Flint area organizations receiving assistance for the HUD-VASH program include: • Flint Housing Commission and VA Ann Arbor Health Care System/Flint Outpatient Clinic, $36,018• Michigan State Housing Development Authority and Aleda E. Lutz Saginaw VA Medical Center, $148,378 Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters recently signed a bipartisan letter calling for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that work to end veteran homelessness. He also recently toured the Volunteers of America (VOA) in Lansing, where he saw firsthand the work the VOA is doing to support Michigan's veterans and combat veteran homelessness. Through transitional housing, case management and employment help, the VOA works to prevent low-income veterans and their families from falling into homelessness.
04.20.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $235,635 Investment for Veterans Housing in West Michigan Monday, April 20, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced a $235,635 investment in West Michigan to provide assistance to help end veteran homelessness. The assistance is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. "America's veterans put their lives on the line for the safety of this country and its citizens," said Senator Stabenow. "This support will help get our heroes off the streets and into permanent homes." "Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to defend our country, and we must ensure they have our full support when they return home and begin the transition back to civilian life," said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "On any given night, there are nearly 50,000 veterans across the country without a roof over their heads. This investment provides much needed assistance to help homeless veterans in West Michigan find a permanent place to call home, and helps keep our promise to support our service members, veterans and their families." The HUD-VASH program combines rental assistance vouchers from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by the VA to help homeless veterans find and keep permanent housing. VA Medical Centers are responsible for assessing homeless veterans and referring them to local housing agencies for rental vouchers. Vouchers are awarded based on an individual's duration of homelessness and need for long-term support to maintain permanent housing. The State of Michigan is receiving a total investment of $1.6 million for the program. West Michigan organizations receiving assistance for the HUD-VASH program include: • Battle Creek Housing Commission and Battle Creek VA Medical Center, $50,143• Muskegon Housing Commission and Battle Creek VA Medical Center/Muskegon Outpatient Clinic, $47,220• Kent County Housing Commission and Battle Creek VA Medical Center/Grand Rapids Community-Based Outpatient Clinic, $138,272 Senator Stabenow is committed to making sure veterans have the care and resources they need. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to bring more VA clinics to Michigan so veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles to receive medical treatment. Additionally, Stabenow has long championed the issue of veterans' employment, including in her 2014 Farm Bill, which includes support for military veterans who are new to farming and ranching. Senator Peters recently signed a bipartisan letter calling for continued funding for the Supporting Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program and the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program that work to end veteran homelessness. He also recently toured the Volunteers of America (VOA) in Lansing, where he saw firsthand the work the VOA is doing to support Michigan's veterans and combat veteran homelessness. Through transitional housing, case management and employment help, the VOA works to prevent low-income veterans and their families from falling into homelessness.
04.17.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on the Passing of Robert P. Griffin Friday, April 17, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the passing of former U.S. Senator and Michigan Supreme Court Justice, Robert P. Griffin: "I am saddened to learn about the loss of Robert P. Griffin and thank him for his service to our country and his service to Michigan. Bob spent his life working for the people of Michigan, including representing our state as Michigan's 34th U.S. Senator. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time."
04.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Lake City Area Chamber of Commerce Thursday, April 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Lake City Area Chamber of Commerce in Missaukee County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $11,250 grant will be used to help replace the roof on the Chamber of Commerce building. "This investment is great news for Lake City," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is one example of the role that rural development plays in helping rural communities support businesses and promote economic growth." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Evart Police Department to Buy New Police Car Thursday, April 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Evart Police Department in Osceola County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $17,250 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Evart will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.15.2015	Members of Michigan Delegation Meet with Advocates to Address Issue of Untested Rape Kits Wednesday, April 15, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Brenda Lawrence (D-MI) today met with Kym Worthy, Wayne County Prosecutor, Carolyn Cassin, President and CEO of the Michigan Women's Foundation, and Peg Tallet, Chief of Community Engagement for the Michigan Women's Foundation to jointly address the thousands of rape kits that have gone untested in Michigan. The meeting highlighted ways to end Michigan's rape kit backlog while making sure communities have the resources needed to prosecute the responsible perpetrators. "It's unbelievable that rape kits go years without being tested," said Senator Stabenow. "These women deserve justice. It is absolutely critical that there is funding to test rape kits and funding to make sure those responsible pay for these horrific acts of violence." "The backlog of untested rape kits not only utterly fails victims who deserve justice, it allows violent attackers to become repeat offenders," said Senator Peters. "Allowing rape kits to go unprocessed is unacceptable, and I look forward to working with the members of the Michigan congressional delegation to tackle this issue." "It is unacceptable that these rape kits sit on a shelf, unanalyzed, for years," said Rep. Dingell. "We have a serious responsibility to ensure victims can hold their perpetrators accountable, and we all must work together to end this backlog and remove violent criminals from our streets." "This meeting today reinforces our support for Prosecutor Worthy and the Detroit Police Department as they seek justice for victims of sexual assault," said Rep. Lawrence. "The findings and proposed solutions in the National Institute of Justice report demonstrates we still have a long way to go, but this is a good start." It is estimated that 400,000 rape kits have gone untested in the United States. In 2009, 11,000 untested rape kits were discovered in Detroit at an abandoned police storage unit. While the state of Michigan expects to complete testing by the end of May 2015, it will take an estimated $10 million to investigate and prosecute the perpetrators responsible.
04.13.2015	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Resolution Opposing Storage of Nuclear Waste in Great Lakes Basin Monday, April 13, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced a Senate resolution urging the administration to oppose a Canadian proposal to build a permanent nuclear waste repository in the Great Lakes Basin. The measure is a companion resolution to one introduced by Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) last week. "Canada's proposed nuclear waste dump on the shores of Lake Huron puts our Great Lakes at risk of radioactive contamination that could have devastating consequences for future generations," said Sen. Stabenow. "I have expressed my strong objections to the Canadian government directly, and today's resolution puts additional pressure on the Canadians to stop this plan." "Preserving the health and safety of the Great Lakes is critical to Michigan's environment and economy," said Sen. Peters. "Building a permanent nuclear waste dump in such close proximity to Lake Huron could cause significant, lasting damage to this precious resource and undermine the progress we have made cleaning up the water quality in the Great Lakes Basin. The Canadian government should seek out an alternative site, and I urge the State Department to take action to keep this troubling project from moving forward." "Burying Canadian nuclear waste less than a mile from the Great Lakes is a bad idea and too much of a risk to take when it comes to our Great Lakes and our state's economy," Congressman Kildee said. "I'm glad to see a growing chorus of people - Democrats and Republicans, Canadians and Americans - speaking out in opposition to this proposed Canadian plan, including Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters. Michigan is lucky to have two great U.S. Senators who have been lifelong champions of protecting our Great Lakes, and I will continue working with them to preserve our freshwater resources - now and for future generations." Ontario Power Generation has proposed to build a permanent repository for nuclear waste less than a mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. This close proximity to the lake, Sens. Stabenow, Peters and Rep. Kildee argue, could be disastrous if an accidental spill were ever to occur. Over 40 million people in Canada and the United States get their drinking water from the Great Lakes and the highly toxic waste could take tens of thousands of years to decompose to safe levels. The resolution urges the President and Secretary of State to work with their counterparts to prevent a permanent nuclear waste repository from being built within the Great Lakes Basin. It further states that the U.S. and Canada should develop a safe and responsible solution for the long-term storage of nuclear waste.
04.09.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Seniors in Clare County Thursday, April 09, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Clare County Senior Services, which serves nearly 80,000 meals per year through its Senior Nutrition Program. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility and Economic Impact Initiative Grant programs, which fund critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The funding will be used to purchase new kitchen equipment for a newly-acquired Senior Services Building. "This organization is an important resource for seniors in Clare County," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is one example of the role that rural development plays in helping rural communities maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Clare County Senior Services will receive a $7,650 grant through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program and a $14,850 grant through the Economic Impact Initiative Grant program. Last summer, Senator Stabenow announced funding for the purchase of the new Senior Services Building. Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.09.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Ogemaw County Sheriff's Department to Buy New Police Car Thursday, April 09, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Ogemaw County Sheriff's Department. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $9,750 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Ogemaw County will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.09.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Clare County Sheriff's Department to Buy New Police Car Thursday, April 09, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Clare County Sheriff's Department. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $12,000 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Clare County will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.08.2015	Michigan Delegation to National Defense Officials: Choose Michigan Air National Guard to Lead Military Cybersecurity Initiative Bipartisan, Bicameral Letter Calls for Support of 110th Attack Wing of the Michigan Air National Guard to Host Cyber Squadron Wednesday, April 08, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Michigan Congressional Delegation today united in their support for the 110th Attack Wing of the Michigan Air National Guard in Battle Creek, Michigan, to be named the location of a Cyber Operations Squadron. In a letter to top officials in the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), bipartisan, bicameral delegation members emphasized how Battle Creek Air National Guard Base’s (BCANBGB) unique location and capabilities would best serve and enable the defense department’s cyber security operations to protect the nation and lead this major initiative in military cyber security. The 110th Attack Wing is already home to a pilot program that has trained technicians and has much of the infrastructure required to take on this new mission. Delegation members also note in their letter that Michigan’s current workforce and universities provide a strong foundation for continuous training of current and future workers. The state already sports a network of highly skilled information technology professionals, qualified DoD personnel, as well as public and private cyber security specialists. In addition, Michigan is home to 22 colleges and universities that offer degrees in cyber security, including five colleges that have earned designations as National Security Agency Centers of Excellence. The letter, led by Senator Debbie Stabenow and Rep. Fred Upton, is the first product of a bipartisan, bicameral agenda discussed at a February Michigan delegation meeting. The letter was also signed by the entire Michigan delegation: Senator Gary Peters, Rep. Justin Amash, Rep. Dan Benishek, Rep. Mike Bishop, Rep. John Conyers, Rep. Bill Huizenga, Rep. Dan Kildee, Rep. John Moolenaar, Rep. Sander Levin, Rep. Candice Miller, Rep. Debbie Dingell, Rep. Brenda Lawrence, Rep. David Trott, and Rep. Tim Walberg. Governor Rick Snyder has also expressed his strong support of the 110th Attack Wing in their pursuit to host a Cyber Operations Squadron. The delegation writes in part: Cybersecurity threats are one of the greatest national security challenges we face today. Our future as a nation depends upon a reliable cyberspace for infrastructure, commerce, communications, and government at every level. To counter those determined to cause harm, it is crucial that America has a Cyber Mission Force that can strengthen and rigorously protect this critical infrastructure. As the Department of Defense makes determinations on the final Cyber Operations Squadrons (COS) for Air National Guard Cyber Force Laydown, we would like to express our strong support for the 110th Attack Wing of the Michigan Air National Guard in Battle Creek, MI to host a Cyber Squadron. The Battle Creek Air National Guard Base’s (BCANGB) unique location and capabilities would enable USCYBERCOM to fulfill its mission at a significant cost savings compared to bases without the same existing infrastructure. In addition, Michigan’s current workforce and universities provide a strong foundation for current and future recruiting efforts. Michigan has a network of highly skilled IT professionals, qualified DoD personal, as well as public and private cyber security specialists. We also have 22 colleges and universities that offer degrees in cyber security, including 5 colleges that have earned NSA Centers of Excellence designations. With emerging threats and growing concerns on the cyber battlefield, we recognize the difficult choices you must make in securing a Cyber Force structure that meets our nation’s security needs. Locating a Cyber Operations Squadron at BCANGB will utilize existing infrastructure to keep costs low, and provide significant capabilities in meeting America’s cyber security needs. The letter was sent to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter, Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James, General Mark A. Welsh, Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, General Frank J. Grass, Chief of Staff for the National Guard Bureau, and Lieutenant General Stanley E. Clarke III, Director Air National Guard.
04.07.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Selection of Michigan State University for Grant to Address Water Quality Tuesday, April 07, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement that Michigan State University has been awarded a $900,000 grant to work with farmers to address critical water problems in rural communities and agriculture watersheds. The funding, which comes through the USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, was authorized by Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Farmers play an extremely important role in addressing critical water problems," said Stabenow. "I'm proud of Michigan State's leadership when it comes to agricultural research. The support announced today will help make sure our farmers have the tools they need to keep our waters clean." Michigan State University's project will develop tools to help farmers deal with challenges brought on by water quality issues and changing weather patterns. The project will also evaluate the local economic impact of these smart agriculture technologies and practices. The award was made available by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture's Agriculture and Food Research Initiative and the National Integrated Water Quality Program.
04.06.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Beaverton Activity Center Monday, April 06, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Beaverton Activity Center in Gladwin County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $28,500 grant will be used to help the activity center purchase a new security/safety system. "The activity center is an important resource for families in Beaverton," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is one example of the role that rural development plays in helping rural communities maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.06.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Greenville Police to Buy New Police Car Monday, April 06, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Greenville Police Department in Montcalm County. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $13,500 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new police vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Greenville will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Delivers Keynote Address at Central Michigan University’s Institute for Great Lakes Research Symposium Thursday, April 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, kicked off Central Michigan University's Institute for Great Lake Research Symposium. The symposium highlighted Senator Stabenow's support of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which funds critical Great Lakes research being conducted by universities like Central Michigan University. "The Great Lakes are part of our Michigan way of life. And they sustain our entire continent, providing 84 percent of North America's surface freshwater," Stabenow said in her speech. "We depend on the Great Lakes for more than just drinking water: Thousands upon thousands of jobs are linked to the Great Lakes." Senator Stabenow championed the effort to pass the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. The Initiative is fully funded by Sen. Stabenow's Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act, which gives communities the tools they need to combat invasive species, protect wildlife habitats and improve water quality in the Great Lakes. Just last month, she introduced the Defending Our Great Lakes Act, which will help stop the spread of Asian carp in the Great Lakes.
04.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Van Buren Community Center Thursday, April 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Van Buren United Civic Organization. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $7,125 grant will be used to help the community center purchase a new HVAC system and make other building improvements. "The community center is an important resource for families in Van Buren," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is one example of the role that rural development plays in helping rural communities maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.02.2015	In Saginaw, Senator Stabenow Announces Bipartisan HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Thursday, April 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced legislation to help people who are living with Alzheimer's disease and support those caring for a family member with this devastating illness. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act would provide Alzheimer's patients and their families with much-needed information about the disease and possible treatment options. The bill creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to diagnose more patients with Alzheimer's disease, and will give patients access to a doctor visit to understand the diagnosis, treatment options, and what medical and community services are available. For over 25 years, Sen. Stabenow has been leading the effort to improve the way Alzheimer's Disease is diagnosed, increase support for caregivers, and prioritize research into treatments and a cure. As a State Legislator in the 1980s, she chaired a joint committee of the House Public and Mental Health Committees on Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders to improve the diagnosis, caregiver support and research of the disease. Now, Senator Stabenow is using her new role as Ranking Member of the Senate's Finance Subcommittee on Health to champion early diagnosis and treatment options through Medicare. "The early symptoms of Alzheimer's disease can be terrifying for individuals and their families, especially when they don't know what's happening and don't have a diagnosis," said Senator Stabenow. "The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will give Alzheimer's patients and their families the information and support they need to cope with this heartbreaking disease. Because of the work being done by Michigan advocates and the Alzheimer's Association, this can be the year we have a real breakthrough in the fight against Alzheimer's.""More than 5 million Americans are living with Alzheimer's. The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will ensure physicians are prepared to conduct care planning with their patients facing Alzheimer's disease. This includes knowledge of available resources provided by the Alzheimer's Association. Support from the Alzheimer's Association and other community resources helps families cope with the difficulties of providing care for someone with this devastating disease. Without an effective treatment, care planning is essential. Care planning can help families faced with Alzheimer's to be prepared, allowing for better decision making, medical care and future planning," states Jennifer Lepard, President/CEO, Alzheimer's Association-Greater Michigan Chapter. Fewer than half of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's say they were told the diagnosis, according to a just-released 2015 Alzheimer's Association report. In contrast, more than 90 percent of people with the four most common cancers (breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate) say they were told their diagnosis. Alzheimer's disease is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States and Alzheimer's and other dementias will cost the nation $226 billion in 2015 according to the new report. Over the years, studies have shown that providing patients and families with a full range of information and support results in better outcomes for those living with Alzheimer's, including higher quality of care, increased use of needed community services, reduced patient behavioral and psychiatric symptoms, and reduced caregiver stress and depression.
04.01.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Kalkaska to Buy New Snow Removal Equipment Wednesday, April 01, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Village of Kalkaska. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Direct Loan and Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The $173,000 loan and $11,250 grant will be used to help the community purchase a front-end loader to clear snow from roads and parking areas during the winter. "This investment is great news for Kalkaska," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is one example of the role that rural development plays in keeping families safe across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
04.01.2015	In Kalamazoo, Senator Stabenow Announces Bipartisan HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Wednesday, April 01, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced legislation to help people who are living with Alzheimer's disease and support those caring for a family member with this devastating illness. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act would provide Alzheimer's patients and their families with much-needed information about the disease and possible treatment options. The bill creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to diagnose more patients with Alzheimer's disease, and will give patients access to a doctor visit to understand the diagnosis, treatment options, and what medical and community services are available. For over 25 years, Sen. Stabenow has been leading the effort to improve the way Alzheimer's Disease is diagnosed, increase support for caregivers, and prioritize research into treatments and a cure. As a State Legislator in the 1980s, she chaired a joint committee of the House Public and Mental Health Committees on Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders to improve the diagnosis, caregiver support and research of the disease. Now, Senator Stabenow is using her new role as Ranking Member of the Senate's Finance Subcommittee on Health to champion early diagnosis and treatment options through Medicare. "The early symptoms of Alzheimer's disease can be terrifying for individuals and their families, especially when they don't know what's happening and don't have a diagnosis," said Senator Stabenow. "The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will give Alzheimer's patients and their families the information and support they need to cope with this heartbreaking disease. Because of the work being done by Michigan advocates and the Alzheimer's Association, this can be the year we have a real breakthrough in the fight against Alzheimer's." "Receiving a diagnosis of Alzheimer's, our nation's 6th leading cause of death, is devastating. Education about the disease, what to expect in the future, long term care planning, legal resources, community resources, end of life plans, and understanding support are essential for those living with the disease and their families. The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act would ensure that families are connected after diagnosis to a care consultant who can educate and help families navigate what can be a very lengthy and expensive journey," said Jennifer Howard, Executive Director, Alzheimer's Association, Michigan Great Lakes Chapter."As a long term service provider for elders and their families, Senior Services of Southwest Michigan is proud to promote the HOPE for Alzheimer's Act legislation. This effort is an important first step in providing a network of supports for Alzheimer's victims and their caregivers to bring an improved quality of life for those impacted by this devastating disease," said Robert W. Littke President and CEO Senior Services of Southwest Michigan. Fewer than half of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's say they were told the diagnosis, according to a just-released 2015 Alzheimer's Association report. In contrast, more than 90 percent of people with the four most common cancers (breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate) say they were told their diagnosis. Alzheimer's disease is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States and Alzheimer's and other dementias will cost the nation $226 billion in 2015 according to the new report. Over the years, studies have shown that providing patients and families with a full range of information and support results in better outcomes for those living with Alzheimer's, including higher quality of care, increased use of needed community services, reduced patient behavioral and psychiatric symptoms, and reduced caregiver stress and depression.
04.01.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces More Than $5 Million to Expand Double Up Food Bucks throughout Michigan Wednesday, April 01, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced more than $5.0 million in new federal funding to expand Double Up Food Bucks in Michigan. The grant was funded through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive grant program which Stabenow authored in her 2014 Farm Bill. The grant will be matched by private funding totaling more than $10.4 million in new investments. "The Double Up program helps families stretch their food budget to buy fruits and vegetables while supporting Michigan's farmers," said Stabenow. "It's this type of innovative partnership that I fought to include in the Farm Bill. I am so proud that Michigan is leading the way. With this new support, the Fair Food Network will continue their great work and I look forward to working closely with them as they get the Double Up program in more farmers markets and grocery stores throughout the state." Building on the success of Michigan's Double Up Food Bucks program - a project of the Fair Food Network - Stabenow fought to include $100 million in the Farm Bill to support the new Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive grant program which helps ensure all families have access to fresh, locally grown fruits and vegetables. Double Up Food Bucks makes it easier for low-income families in Michigan to eat healthy by matching one-to-one the value of food assistance dollars spent on fresh, regionally grown produce at farmers markets and grocery stores. This innovative program helps families stretch their food budget while supporting Michigan farmers and rural communities. "We've proven that Double Up successfully boosts family nutrition and farmer earnings," said Oran Hesterman, president and CEO of Fair Food Network, and a former farmer, agronomist, and leader in philanthropy. "With this funding, we'll reach even more people, supporting healthy food environments and resilient rural and urban communities. I thank Sen. Stabenow for her leadership and for getting support for this program in the Farm Bill." Fair Food Network will utilize the new funds to expand the Double Up Food Bucks program to more farmers market and grocery stores throughout Michigan. Additionally, funding will be used to expand new technology to make purchases easier for families and farmers, and pilot year-round rather than seasonal programming at farmers markets and groceries.
04.01.2015	In Lansing, Senator Stabenow Announces Bipartisan HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Wednesday, April 01, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced legislation to help people who are living with Alzheimer's disease and support those caring for a family member with this devastating illness. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act would provide Alzheimer's patients and their families with much-needed information about the disease and possible treatment options. The bill creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to diagnose more patients with Alzheimer's disease, and will give patients access to a doctor visit to understand the diagnosis, treatment options, and what medical and community services are available. For over 25 years, Sen. Stabenow has been leading the effort to improve the way Alzheimer's Disease is diagnosed, increase support for caregivers, and prioritize research into treatments and a cure. As a State Legislator in the 1980s, she chaired a joint committee of the House Public and Mental Health Committees on Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders to improve the diagnosis, caregiver support and research of the disease. Now, Senator Stabenow is using her new role as Ranking Member of the Senate's Finance Subcommittee on Health to champion early diagnosis and treatment options through Medicare. "The early symptoms of Alzheimer's disease can be terrifying for individuals and their families, especially when they don't know what's happening and don't have a diagnosis," said Senator Stabenow. "The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will give Alzheimer's patients and their families the information and support they need to cope with this heartbreaking disease. Because of the work being done by Michigan advocates and the Alzheimer's Association, this can be the year we have a real breakthrough in the fight against Alzheimer's.""Receiving a diagnosis of Alzheimer's, our nation's 6th leading cause of death, is devastating. Education about the disease, what to expect in the future, long term care planning, legal resources, community resources, end of life plans, and understanding support are essential for those living with the disease and their families. The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act would ensure that families are connected after diagnosis to a care consultant who can educate and help families navigate what can be a very lengthy and expensive journey," said Jennifer Howard, Executive Director, Alzheimer's Association, Michigan Great Lakes Chapter."The Tri-County Office on Aging is honored to host Sen. Stabenow and this forum. Alzheimer's and all forms of dementia impact all of us, and Senator Stabenow's legislation is so important and crucial to those with dementia and those providing support as caregivers," said Marion Owen, Executive Director, Tri-County Office on Aging. Fewer than half of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's say they were told the diagnosis, according to a just-released 2015 Alzheimer's Association report. In contrast, more than 90 percent of people with the four most common cancers (breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate) say they were told their diagnosis. Alzheimer's disease is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States and Alzheimer's and other dementias will cost the nation $226 billion in 2015 according to the new report. Over the years, studies have shown that providing patients and families with a full range of information and support results in better outcomes for those living with Alzheimer's, including higher quality of care, increased use of needed community services, reduced patient behavioral and psychiatric symptoms, and reduced caregiver stress and depression.
03.31.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Tuesday, March 31, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced legislation to help people who are living with Alzheimer's disease and support those caring for a family member with this devastating illness. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act would provide Alzheimer's patients and their families with much-needed information about the disease and possible treatment options. The bill creates a new care-management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. This new benefit would encourage doctors to diagnose more patients with Alzheimer's disease, and will give patients access to a doctor visit to understand the diagnosis, treatment options, and what medical and community services are available. For over 25 years, Sen. Stabenow has been leading the effort to improve the way Alzheimer's Disease is diagnosed, increase support for caregivers, and prioritize research into treatments and a cure. As a State Legislator in the 1980s, she chaired a joint committee of the House Public and Mental Health Committees on Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders to improve the diagnosis, caregiver support and research of the disease. Now, Senator Stabenow is using her new role as Ranking Member of the Senate's Finance Subcommittee on Health to champion early diagnosis and treatment options through Medicare. "The early symptoms of Alzheimer's disease can be terrifying for individuals and their families, especially when they don't know what's happening and don't have a diagnosis," said Senator Stabenow. "The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will give Alzheimer's patients and their families the information and support they need to cope with this heartbreaking disease. Because of the work being done by Michigan advocates and the Alzheimer's Association, this can be the year we have a real breakthrough in the fight against Alzheimer's." "More than 5 million Americans are living with Alzheimer's. The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will ensure physicians are prepared to conduct care planning with their patients facing Alzheimer's disease. This includes knowledge of available resources provided by the Alzheimer's Association. Support from the Alzheimer's Association and other community resources helps families cope with the difficulties of providing care for someone with this devastating disease. Without an effective treatment, care planning is essential. Care planning can help families faced with Alzheimer's to be prepared, allowing for better decision making, medical care and future planning," states Jennifer Lepard, President/CEO, Alzheimer's Association-Greater Michigan Chapter. Fewer than half of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's say they were told the diagnosis, according to a just-released 2015 Alzheimer's Association report. In contrast, more than 90 percent of people with the four most common cancers (breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate) say they were told their diagnosis. Alzheimer's disease is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States and Alzheimer's and other dementias will cost the nation $226 billion in 2015 according to the new report. Over the years, studies have shown that providing patients and families with a full range of information and support results in better outcomes for those living with Alzheimer's, including higher quality of care, increased use of needed community services, reduced patient behavioral and psychiatric symptoms, and reduced caregiver stress and depression.
03.31.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Two Northern Michigan Community Projects Tuesday, March 31, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Gladwin County District Library and Hayes Township's community kitchen. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. "The Gladwin Library and Hayes Township community kitchen are important resources for families in these communities," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is one example of the role that rural development plays in helping rural communities create economic development and maintain the quality of life across Michigan." The Gladwin County District Library will receive $22,500 to purchase new equipment and furnishings for their children's learning area. Hayes Township in Clare County will receive $37,500 to buy equipment for their new community kitchen. Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
03.31.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Northern Michigan Police to Buy New Police Vehicles Tuesday, March 31, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Clare and Standish Police Departments and Gladwin County Sheriff's Office. This funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant and Community Facility Grant programs, which fund critical infrastructure in rural communities across the country. The funds will be used to help the communities purchase three new police vehicles. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes, and communities," said Stabenow. "These new police cars for Clare, Standish and Gladwin County will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Clare will receive $15,750 and Standish will receive $20,250 in Economic Impact Initiative Grants. Gladwin County will receive $9,000 from the Community Facility Grant program. Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
03.30.2015	Senators Stabenow and Wicker Lead Bipartisan Group of 60 Senators Urging Support for Community Health Centers Monday, March 30, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roger Wicker (R-MS), along with 58 other Senators, urged support for community health centers, which could have their funding cut by nearly 70 percent in September. In a letter to U.S. Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Chairman Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), the bipartisan group of 60 Senators requested continued funding from the appropriators, explaining that the potential mandatory cuts at the end of this fiscal year could result in site closures and prevent millions of people in high-need communities from accessing cost-effective, primary care services. The letter reads in part: "We are concerned about the scheduled expiration of the Health Center Fund at the end of this fiscal year, which would put Health Centers around the country at risk of a reduction or interruption of services, and we encourage you to work with us to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the health center program. Without access to primary care, many people, including the chronically ill, delay seeking health care until they are seriously ill and require inpatient hospitalization or care at an emergency room at a much higher cost to the entire health-care system." Health centers serve as the health care home for nearly 600,000 Michigan residents in 200 clinics across the state. In Mississippi, where the first rural community health center opened half a century ago, over 300,000 patients are served annually at 170 delivery sites. The full text of the letter follows: Dear Chairman Blunt and Ranking Member Murray, We would like to thank the Subcommittee for your continued support and recognition of Health Centers as a long-standing bipartisan solution to the primary care access shortage facing our country. During the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Appropriations process, we respectfully request that the Subcommittee continue to recognize Health Centers as providers of high quality, cost-effective primary care and that you work to ensure their continued sustainability and viability in the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies legislation. This year marks fifty years since the first Health Centers opened their doors. Since the inception of the program, Health Centers have worked to provide primary care and a variety of support and medical services, such as dental and behavioral care, to America's most vulnerable patients and communities. Today, nearly 1,300 health center organizations serve more than 9,000 urban and rural communities nationwide. Health Centers are the health-care home for more than 23 million patients, including nearly seven million children and more than 268,000 veterans. These centers employ more than 156,000 Americans, and generate an economic impact and overall cost savings of over $24 billion. America's Health Centers have continually proven to be a worthwhile investment by meeting the nation's growing demands for quality and affordable health care. We are concerned about the scheduled expiration of the Health Center Fund at the end of this fiscal year, which would put Health Centers around the country at risk of a reduction or interruption of services, and we encourage you to work with us to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the health center program. Without access to primary care, many people, including the chronically ill, delay seeking health care until they are seriously ill and require inpatient hospitalization or care at an emergency room at a much higher cost to the entire health-care system. As Congress works to improve access to care and reduce health-care expenditures, we urge the Subcommittee to support Health Centers, allowing them to continue to provide cost-effective primary care. Thank you for your continued support of the vital role Health Centers play in preserving and expanding access to care in the communities they serve. Sincerely, Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) Roger Wicker (R-MS)Richard Burr (R-NC) Robert Menendez (D-NJ)Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) Charles Schumer (D-NY)Johnny Isakson (R-GA) Jon Tester (D-MT)Mark Kirk (R-IL) Joe Donnelly (D-IN)John Cornyn (R-TX) Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI)Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) Dan Sullivan (R-AK)Chris Coons (D-DE) John Hoeven (R-ND)Deb Fischer (R-NE) Elizabeth Warren (D-MA)Mark Warner (D-VA) Jeff Merkley (D-OR)Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) Angus King (I-ME)Martin Heinrich (D-NM) Al Franken (D-MN)Michael Bennet (D-CO) Tim Kaine (D-VA)David Perdue (R-GA) Richard Blumenthal (D-CT)Ron Wyden (D-OR) James Risch (R-ID)Richard Durbin (D-IL) Cory Gardner (R-CO)Tom Udall (D-NM) Dianne Feinstein (D-CA)Christopher Murphy (D-CT) Barbara Boxer (D-CA)Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) Joe Manchin III (D-WV)Cory Booker (D-NJ) Maria Cantwell (D-WA)Gary Peters (D-MI) Brian Schatz (D-HI)Jack Reed (D-RI) Bill Nelson (D-FL)Tom Carper (D-DE) Kelly Ayotte (R-NH)Susan Collins (R-ME) James Inhofe (R-OK)Bernard Sanders (I-VT) Mazie Hirono (D-HI)Chuck Grassley (R-IA) Edward Markey (D-MA)Sherrod Brown (D-OH) Tammy Baldwin (D-WI)Marco Rubio (R-FL) Patrick Leahy (D-VT)Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) Mike Crapo (R-ID)Steve Daines (R-MT) Michael Enzi (R-WY)
03.30.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Urge Full Funding for Selfridge Air National Guard Base’s A-10 Program Monday, March 30, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today urged Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Ranking Member Dick Durbin (D-IL) to fully fund the A-10 program, which is located at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. Senators Stabenow and Peters highlighted the importance of the A-10 fleet in military combat and requested a suitable alternative be found before a decision is made to retire the fighter jets. The letter reads in part: "At this time, no other aircraft is able to engage in the difficult, close proximity missions with the level of success as the A-10. ... We respect the difficult budgetary decisions our Armed Forces have to face while protecting our troops and achieving operational successes. However, retiring the A-10 before suitable alternatives, capable of the same level of operational engagement, are ready is unwise." More than 4,000 full-time civilian and military personnel work at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. The base contributes hundreds of millions of dollars to Michigan's economy each year. The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Chairman Cochran and Vice Chairman Durbin: As members of the Michigan delegation, we urge you to fully fund the A-10 program as you complete the FY2016 Defense Appropriations bill. The A-10 continues to show its unique capabilities for providing close air support (CAS). Given the United States' current military engagements in the Middle East fighting against ISIS, and protecting NATO countries in Eastern Europe, the aircraft program must be continued until a suitable alternative is in place. We oppose efforts to cut the A-10 program piece by piece so that it cannot complete its missions. Last year, Congress allowed the Air Force to shift maintenance crews to the F-35 and reduce its flying hours. Recently, 18 A-10 planes were placed on back up Backup-Aircraft Inventory (BAI) status and will not be flying. This means that instead of waiting for the best analysis concerning how best to meet the CAS support needs of our troops, eventually by cutting hours, crews, and planes, the Air Force will be justified in prematurely ending the entire program. The Air Force continues to cite the cost savings associated with the cutting the A-10 but we believe this approach does not fully consider recent investments in the A-10 and the cost effectiveness of its operations compared to other aircrafts. In 2007, the Air Force invested in upgrades to the A-10 that it said would enable the aircraft to keep flying for another three decades. Further, a sortie conducted by an A-10 is much cheaper than the F-16, the F-15, and the F-22. At this time, no other aircraft is able to engage in the difficult, close proximity missions with the level of success as the A-10. In a letter to the Secretary of Defense last November, the Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs), who as you know are specialists in CAS, said that "F-15s, F-16s, and B-1s cannot replicate the CAS capabilities of the A-10, and we know from combat experience that the elimination of the A-10 before a viable replacement achieves full operational capability will cost American lives." We should not dismiss the men and women serving in the Army and Marines Corps who continue to recount how valuable the A-10 is for protecting troops under fire and saving lives. In January, Maj. Parvin and Capt. Cavazos received the Distinguished Flying Cross with Valor for saving the lives of 6 marines in Afghanistan. These pilots flew through heavy layers of clouds and dusk to protect marines who had been ambushed by insurgents. Marines on the ground that night say they are certain they wouldn't have made it out alive without the CAS supported provided by Parvin and Cavazos. We respect the difficult budgetary decisions our Armed Forces have to face while protecting our troops and achieving operational successes. However, retiring the A-10 before suitable alternatives, capable of the same level of operational engagement, are ready is unwise. Therefore, we request you fully authorize the funding required for the A-10, and take no additional action to divest or move additional planes to back up status in 2016.
03.27.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Senator Harry Reid Retirement Announcement Friday, March 27, 2015 .S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding Senator Harry Reid's (D-NV) announcement that he will not be seeking re-election in 2016. "There is no question that the Senate is losing a giant. There is nobody I would rather have at my side in a fight, or as my friend, than Harry Reid - whether it's health care, immigration reform, or saving our American auto industry, you know that Harry will not stop until the job is done. Harry has shown a level of strength and ability to lead that will always be remembered in the halls of Congress and in every corner of Nevada. I wish him, Landra and his family nothing but the very best."
03.26.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds Selection of Michigan State University for Grant to Prevent Childhood Obesity Thursday, March 26, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today applauded the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement that Michigan State University (MSU) has been selected to roll out a new childhood obesity intervention program. Sen. Stabenow has led the effort to increase access to fresh and nutritious foods and help combat childhood obesity, which will keep our children healthy and our country strong. The $833,509 grant is awarded by the USDA's Agriculture and Food Research Initiative, which is a competitive grant program that was included in Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. The farm bill was signed into law by President Obama at MSU last year. "Making sure our children are fit to learn, serve and succeed starts with having the right foods," said Stabenow. "I'm extremely proud of Michigan State's leadership when it comes to agricultural research, and the support announced today will help our children live healthy and successful lives." "MSU's College of Social Science and College of Nursing, MSU Extension, the University of Michigan and Head Start are partnering together to address one of Michigan's most important health-related issues- obesity in early childhood. This grant allows us to provide the research, education and outreach necessary to help Michigan's next generation make healthier lifestyle choices." Said Dean of the College of Social Science Marietta Baba, Interim Director of MSU Extension Ray Hammerschmidt and Associate Dean for Research at the College of Nursing Barbara Smith. This support will help MSU researchers work with the University of Michigan and the regional Head Start program to identify and implement interventions that address obesity prevention among families. The Agriculture and Food Research Initiative's Childhood Obesity Prevention Challenge Area supports efforts to reduce the prevalence of obesity among children and adolescents. This funding comes as part of a national, $9 million announcement for childhood obesity intervention programs through colleges and universities across the country.
03.26.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Great Lakes Investment in West Michigan Thursday, March 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $1,356,970 to three projects in West Michigan to improve water quality and protect natural habitats in the region. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding will be used to improve water quality and remove pollutants in Tamarack Creek and Bear Lake and restore wetlands and floodplains along the Macatawa River. Both of these waterways flow into Lake Michigan. "This support will improve water quality in the Tamarack Creek and Bear Lake, reduce phosphorus and sediment runoff in the Macatawa River, and protect Lake Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "Michigan's agricultural producers and manufacturers depend on our waterways and the Great Lakes for everything from irrigation to transportation for exports," Senator Peters said. "These projects will work to reduce nutrient runoff that contributes to harmful algal blooms and other contamination that threatens our vitally important rivers and the Great Lakes." "This Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding will be used to implement best management practices on agricultural land and two residential parks near Tamarack Creek to improve water quality and decrease climate change impacts," said Terry Stilson, executive director of The Muskegon River Watershed Assembly. "We are very pleased to have been selected by the EPA to receive GLRI funding. This grant is a validation of Project Clarity's goals and our efforts to establish public and private partnerships," said Travis Williams, executive director of Outdoor Discovery Center Macatawa Greenway. "We are excited for the EPA investment and look forward to a healthier, cleaner watershed." "Lake Michigan is an invaluable natural resource, and Delta Institute is thrilled to lead a diverse coalition of organizations and stakeholders to improve water quality the Bear Lake Watershed within the Lake Michigan Basin," said Delta Institute CEO Jean Pogge. "We are grateful for the support from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative that allows us to create the innovative partnerships that can deliver effective solutions to improve ecological conditions in the Muskegon Lake Area of Concern." The Muskegon River Watershed Assembly, Delta Institute, and Outdoor Discovery Center projects are among seven projects chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $5.7 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards. The funding will be used to improve water quality by removing pollutants and reducing the amount of sediment and phosphorus runoff into Lake Michigan. The Tamarack Creek, Bear Lake, and Macatawa River projects will receive $356,970, $750,000, and $250,000, respectively. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
03.26.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Great Lakes Investment in Upper Peninsula Thursday, March 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $330,403 to reduce pollution and improve water quality in two rivers near Lake Superior in the Upper Peninsula. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding will be used to ensure healthy stream banks and natural habitats along the Salmon-Trout and Dead Rivers, which run into Lake Superior. "This support will clean up the Salmon-Trout and Dead Rivers, restore wildlife habitat, and protect Lake Superior," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "The Great Lakes and Michigan's rivers are critical to our state's economy and way of life," Senator Peters said. "This project will help ensure that vital waterways like the Salmon-Trout and Dead Rivers and Lake Superior are protected for generations to come." "Thanks to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and Senators Stabenow and Peters for supporting both urban and rural watershed protection in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan," said Superior Watershed Partnership and Land Trust Executive Director Carl Lindquist. "Lake Superior is the headwaters of all the Great Lakes. Protecting water quality and restoring important habitat in the headwaters not only has local benefits but also benefits everyone downstream." The "Lake Superior: Urban and Rural Watershed Restoration" project - one of seven projects chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $5.7 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards - will implement watershed management plans in the Salmon-Trout and Dead Rivers. The Superior Watershed Partnership's Great Lakes Conservation Corps will conduct the restoration work. Additionally, the project will integrate K-12 classroom and experiential education through the Upper Great Lakes Stewardship Initiative. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
03.26.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Great Lakes Investment in Northern Michigan Thursday, March 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $729,840 to improve water quality in Kids Creek, an impaired stream in the Grand Traverse Bay connected to Lake Michigan. This U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding will be used to help Kids Creek get off the Michigan EPA's Impaired Waters List, which is a list of waters that are too polluted or degraded to meet water quality standards. "This support will improve water quality, repair deteriorating streambanks, and protect Lake Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "The natural beauty and resources of the Great Lakes and Grand Traverse Bay support Michigan's critically important tourism and agricultural industries," Senator Peters said. "Protecting our waterways from runoff damage is a vital step to ensuring the health of our state's environment and economy for the future." "We are thrilled that this significant funding from GLRI will allow us to continue to improve water quality and reduce stormwater and sediment inputs into Kids Creek, an urban tributary of Grand Traverse Bay," said Christine Crissman, Executive Director of The Watershed Center Grand Traverse Bay. "We have been working for several years to remove Kids Creek from the state's impaired waters list, and this project will bring us considerably closer to that goal." Grand Traverse Bay Watershed Initiative's Kids Creek restoration project - one of seven projects chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $5.7 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards - will work with two major landowners to implement Best Management Practices to reduce stormwater and sediment erosion and stabilize 30 deteriorating streambank sites. Currently, a 2-mile stretch of Kids Creek is on the Michigan EPA's Impaired Waters List due to issues related to stormwater runoff. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
03.26.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Great Lakes Investment in Southeast Michigan to Reduce Algae Blooms in Lake Erie Thursday, March 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $745,000 to help farmers reduce sediment runoff and nutrient loss and lessen the amount of phosphorus that runs into the River Raisin, which connects to Lake Erie. This funding comes through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and will help reduce algae blooms in Lake Erie. "This support will help prevent algae blooms like the one in Lake Erie that contaminated drinking water in Southeast Michigan last August," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "Michigan's thriving agricultural industry is critical to our state's future, and Michigan farmers understand the importance of promoting conservation and good stewardship of Michigan's rich farmlands," Senator Peters said. "This program provides important resources to help Michigan farmers protect vital natural resources like farmland and the Great Lakes for generations to come." "The Stewardship Network is looking forward to working with the great team of experts and practitioners we've pulled together for this Great Lakes Restoration Initiative project," said Executive Director of The Stewardship Network Lisa Brush. "We will be putting best practices into use on the ground and showing the impact of these efforts to reduce nutrient runoff and help turn around the harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie." The Stewardship Network's "Cooling Hotspots: Motivating Farmers to Reduce Nutrient Losses" project - one of seven projects chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $5.7 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards - will partner with Michigan farmers to help them implement Best Management Practices, reduce sediment and nutrient loss, and prevent the discharge of 8,500 pounds of phosphorus into the River Raisin. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
03.26.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Great Lakes Investment in Saginaw Bay Watershed Thursday, March 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $2,558,853 to reduce nutrient runoff and soil erosion in Saginaw Bay and Lake Huron. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding will be used to help farmers implement conservation practices on 10,000 acres of cropland in the Saginaw Bay watershed. "This investment is great news, and will help build on the public-private partnerships through the Farm Bill that will clean up Saginaw Bay, restore wildlife habitat, and protect Lake Huron," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "This project will help ensure agricultural producers around Saginaw Bay have the resources they need to implement best practices for conservation and protect Lake Huron," Senator Peters said. "Michigan's economy is deeply intertwined with the health of the Great Lakes ecosystem, and this investment from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative will bolster our efforts to prevent harmful algal blooms and other contamination that threatens Saginaw Bay and Lake Huron." "The Nature Conservancy is pleased to utilize funding from the EPA's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to advance water quality improvements for the Saginaw Bay Watershed," said Nature Conservancy Director of Government Relations Richard Bowman. "We are excited about having healthy agriculture and healthy aquatic ecosystems as we move forward." The Nature Conservancy project - one of seven projects chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $5.7 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards - will help the group administer a program to reimburse farmers for implementing conservation practices. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
03.25.2015	Senators Stabenow, Collins, Markey, Capito Introduce Bipartisan HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act Wednesday, March 25, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Susan Collins (R-ME) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) today introduced bipartisan legislation to help combat Alzheimer's disease and support those suffering or caring for a family member with this devastating illness. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer's Act would provide Alzheimer's patients and their families with much-needed information about the disease and possible treatment options. The bill does this by creating a new care management planning session for newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients under Medicare. Sens. Stabenow, Collins, Markey and Capito worked closely with the Alzheimer's Association, the world's leading voluntary health organization for Alzheimer's care, support and research, on the bill. "The early symptoms of Alzheimer's disease can be terrifying for individuals and their families, especially when they don't know what's happening and don't have a diagnosis," said Senator Stabenow. "The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act will give Alzheimer's patients and their families the information and support they need to cope with this heartbreaking disease. Because of the work being done by advocates like David Hyde Pierce and the Alzheimer's Association, this can be the year we have a real breakthrough in the fight against Alzheimer's." "Earlier detection is key to helping the nearly half of Americans living with Alzheimer's disease who are going undiagnosed. A documented diagnosis means patients, caregivers and families can learn what treatments are available and plan for the challenges that lie ahead living with Alzheimer's disease. The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act gives patients exactly that, hope - for a diagnosis that will help them get connected to critical resources and manage other chronic conditions they are likely to face. I thank Senators Stabenow, Collins and Capito for their continued partnership on this legislation, and look forward to working with all of my colleagues to help support finding a cure to this devastating disease," said Senator Markey. "Alzheimer's is a disease close to my heart, and we must work to improve its diagnosis and educate Americans about the treatment options available to them," said Senator Capito. "By expanding Medicare payments to assist newly diagnosed Alzheimer's patients in obtaining medical services through The HOPE for Alzheimer's Act, we can work to effectively combat this tragic disease." "Under Senator Stabenow and the other leaders of this bill, HOPE for Alzheimer's will help ensure that the millions of families nationwide facing Alzheimer's disease receive critical care planning services, making a devastating diagnosis slightly more manageable," said David Hyde Pierce, actor and Alzheimer's Association Honorary Board Member. The bill would ensure patients and their families have access to a care planning session with their doctor to help them understand the diagnosis, treatment options, and what medical and community services are available.
03.25.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces $3 Million to Support Mackinac Straits Health Wednesday, March 25, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Mackinac Straits Health to help connect people in rural areas with quality health care. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Direct Loan program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $3,000,000 loan will be used to purchase new radiology equipment, which will serve approximately 27,279 people in the area. "Quality health care is critical for families and businesses in the Mackinac Straits region," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to state-of-the-art care no matter what their zip code is." "We are very grateful for the support of USDA Rural Development," said Mackinac Straits Health Systems President/CEO Rod Nelson. "Senator Stabenow is a true health care champion and we are fortunate to have a senator who is engaged and understands the health care needs of rural communities." Over the years, Senator Stabenow has supported millions of dollars in USDA grants and loans for Mackinac Straits Health and was instrumental in securing federal funding for the hospital's long-term care facility. She currently serves as Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
03.25.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Mt. Morris to Buy New Police Vehicle Wednesday, March 25, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Mt. Morris Police Department in Genesee County. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $15,000 grant will be used to help the community replace a patrol vehicle. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Mt. Morris will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
03.25.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Jonesville to Buy New Fire Truck Wednesday, March 25, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Jonesville Volunteer Fire Department in Hillsdale County. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $37,500 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new fire truck to replace two old trucks. "Firefighters have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes and communities," said Stabenow. "This new fire truck for Jonesville will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
03.25.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for Central Lake Police Department to Buy New Patrol Vehicle Wednesday, March 25, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Central Lake Police Department in Antrim County. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $14,250 grant will be used to help the community purchase a new patrol vehicle to replace two old vehicles. "Police officers have to cover many miles to protect our families, homes and communities," said Stabenow. "This new police car for Central Lake will help make sure there is always someone there to quickly respond in an emergency." Senator Stabenow is Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which oversees the USDA and its Rural Development program.
03.19.2015	Senator Stabenow Joins Senator Warren in Fight to Make College More Affordable Thursday, March 19, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow joined Senator Elizabeth Warren to introduce legislation that would save millions of borrowers money on their student loans. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act would allow responsible borrowers with outstanding student loan debt, including some privates loans, incurred at past higher interest rates to refinance at the low rates currently offered only to new borrowers. This would save borrowers hundreds or even thousands of dollars a year. At a time when many students are being dragged down by their debt and forced to forego buying a house or getting married, the government is projected to make $127 billion in revenue on federal student loans made between 2014 and 2024. The average debt of a recent college graduate earning a degree in Michigan is $29,583, compared to the national average of $28,400. "Too many people in Michigan are saddled with decades of debt just because they wanted a fair shot to go to college and get ahead," said Stabenow. "That is why I'm fighting alongside Sen. Warren and my other colleagues to make college more affordable and to help borrowers who are already weighed down by exploding and unsustainable levels of student debt. Helping these borrowers will improve the lives of millions of Americans and boost our economy by allowing them to spend their money on a home, a car, and the needs of their families instead of on interest payments." There are 41.1 million Americans with outstanding student loans. The Bank on Students Emergency Refinancing Act could lower payments for millions of people by hundreds or even thousands of dollars a year. The legislation is fully funded by enacting the Buffett Rule, which would limit special tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans that allow millionaires and billionaires to pay lower effective tax rates than middle class families.
03.17.2015	Senator Stabenow introduces her Trade Enforcement Act Tuesday, March 17, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Co-chairs of the Senate Manufacturing Caucus, today introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure American businesses and workers can compete fairly in a global marketplace. The Act will toughen trade enforcement by making the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center a permanent center responsible for coordinating the enforcement powers of multiple federal agencies, and creating a Chief Trade Enforcement Officer to lead the Center. The Act will also create a Chief Manufacturing Negotiator in the Office of the United States Trade Representative to protect the interests of American manufacturers in trade negotiations. For years, Sens. Stabenow and Graham have championed policies that crack down on unfair trade practices, which harm the middle class and take away good-paying jobs. The introduction of their Trade Enforcement Act follows the U.S. Trade Representative's release of an annual report that highlights all of the ways countries are cheating to gain an unfair trade advantage. "Every time another country breaks the rules, manufacturing jobs at home take a hit," said Senator Stabenow. "The White House put out a 384-page report listing all of the illegal trade barriers that other countries use to keep American products out. This bill will help crack down on countries that are breaking the rules, which will ensure our businesses and workers can fairly compete." "I strongly support foreign trade and the millions of jobs associated with our export economy," said Senator Graham. "But when others break the rules, they should be held accountable. Through the years, America's manufacturing economy has been hurt by illegal trade barriers and shady practices. Americans welcome competition. I have no doubt that as unfair trade practices are eliminated and barriers are removed, America will continue to compete and have even more success in the international marketplace." The Trade Enforcement Act will make permanent the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center, which was created in 2012 to improve the effectiveness of U.S. challenges to unfair trade practices by coordinating the resources of various federal agencies. The Center has already been critical in helping the U.S. win major trade enforcement cases. Just this past June, the World Trade Organization (WTO) found that China broke WTO rules by imposing extra duties on American cars and SUVs. It was estimated that $5.1 billion of U.S. auto exports were covered by those duties. In August, a WTO panel found in favor of the U.S. in a dispute challenging Argentina's widespread restriction on importing U.S. goods. This measure could potentially affect billions of dollars in exporting energy products, electronics and machinery, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, motor vehicles and vehicle parts. In addition, the Trade Enforcement Act will establish a Chief Trade Enforcement Officer to lead the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center and create a Chief Manufacturing Negotiator at the Office of the United States Trade Representative who will be responsible for protecting the interests of domestic manufacturers in trade negotiations.
03.13.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Loss of Three Marines from Michigan Friday, March 13, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement on the loss of three marines from Michigan who were killed earlier this week in a helicopter crash. "The entire State of Michigan mourns the tragic loss this week of Staff Sgts. Trevor Blaylock, Andrew Seif, and Marcus Bawol. These brave men answered the call of duty to serve and protect our country and their sacrifice will not be forgotten. Today, I join Michigan families everywhere to send thoughts and prayers to each of their families during this difficult time."
03.13.2015	Senator Stabenow Delivers Keynote Address at Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries’ “Call to Service” Friday, March 13, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow delivered the keynote address at Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries' CALL TO SERVICE. Civic and business leaders from the region attended the event, which marked Women's History Month by recognizing women who have given back to metro Detroit families. "Whether providing a warm meal, a family home or helping someone get a job, the Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries has been there for Detroit area women and families for more than 100 years" said Stabenow. "This event is a remarkable way to commemorate Women's History Month by recognizing the extraordinary history of service and volunteerism of this ministry." Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries, which was founded 106 years ago, provides food, shelter, job training opportunities, and substance abuse treatment services. The Detroit-based organization helps 1,600 people each day.
03.09.2015	Michigan REALTORS® Endorse Senator Stabenow’s Bill to Help Struggling Homeowners Monday, March 09, 2015 The Michigan Association of REALTORS® today endorsed U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow's Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act, which will ensure that homeowners working with their banks to reduce their mortgage payments will not be hit with a huge tax bill. Without this legislation, homeowners will be required to pay additional taxes when they receive mortgage principal forgiveness on their homes or sell their homes in what are commonly called "short sales." "It is bad enough that so many families in Michigan are faced with mortgages that now exceed the value of their home," said Senator Stabenow. "But to add insult to injury, without this bipartisan legislation, families willing to work with their lenders will have to pay hundreds or thousands of dollars in additional income tax when they sell or refinance their home. That's just wrong." "The housing market is rebounding, but returning to the practice of unfairly taxing underwater homeowners would undermine that progress," said Beth Foley, Past-President of the Michigan REALTORS® Association. "Especially in Michigan, this legislation will help troubled borrowers who are being responsible and working with their lenders to find solutions. Sen. Stabenow's bill is critical to the nation's recovering economy and we appreciate her leadership on this issue." Declining home prices and rising foreclosure rates have forced many families to sell their homes for less than they paid for them, and sometimes for less than the outstanding debt. The IRS formerly taxed any loan forgiveness provided to homeowners as "income," meaning families were paying thousands of dollars in income tax for phantom income that wasn't actual money the family had earned. While the housing market is beginning to recover, short sales and foreclosures continue. More than one in six American homeowners currently have mortgages that are underwater. Senator Stabenow led the effort to extend a provision that would protect homeowners from having mortgage relief taxed as income, most recently in the Tax Increase Prevention Act, which extended the tax break through 2014. Her new legislation will extend the current moratorium on taxing mortgage forgiveness through 2016.
03.06.2015	Stabenow, Peters Call for Investigation into Unfair Trade Practices for U.S. Uncoated Paper Industry Friday, March 06, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters joined a bipartisan group of Senators in sending a letter to the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), urging the ITC to thoroughly investigate imports of uncoated paper from Australia, Brazil, China, Indonesia and Portugal. The U.S. uncoated paper industry faces unfair trade practices that put the industry at a competitive disadvantage as imports are dumped at significant margins and benefit from government subsidies. In total, 15 uncoated paper machines at eight mills across the country have shut down since 2011, eliminating nearly 2,500 jobs. "The pace of mill and paper machine closures has accelerated as imports have grown," wrote Stabenow, Peters and their colleagues. "These closures are devastating not only for the companies and workers directly involved, but for thousands of families, small businesses, and local and state governments that rely on paper mills for their livelihoods and economic survival. We ask that you thoroughly and objectively review the facts in this case and help ensure that American businesses and workers are able to compete on a level playing field." Michigan is home to seven paper mill facilities owned by Domtar Corporation and Packaging Corporation of America, two companies that have filed antidumping petitions against unfairly priced imports of uncoated paper. Uncoated paper includes copy paper, as well as the paper used in books, brochures, maps, business forms and flyers. Senators who also signed the letter include: Rob Portman (R-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Al Franken (D-MN), Ed Markey (D-MA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), John Boozman (R-AR), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Dan Coats (R-IN), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Richard Burr (R-NC), Thomas Tillis (R-NC) and Mark Warner (D-VA).The full text of the senators' letter is available below: Dear Chairwoman Broadbent: We write in strong support of the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC)'s preliminary phase investigations of imports of uncoated paper from Australia, Brazil, China, Indonesia, and Portugal. The petitioners in this case representing the domestic paper industry have provided evidence that the imports in question are dumped at significant margins and that imports from China and Indonesia in particular benefit from a wide array of government subsidies. We note that the U.S. Department of Commerce has initiated its own investigations into uncoated paper from these countries. The domestic uncoated paper industry and its workers are in dire need of relief from these dumped and subsidized imports. Despite a declining market, imports jumped by 43.9 percent from 2011 to 2013 and another 40.4 percent in just the first nine months of 2014. From 2011 to the first three quarters of 2014, imports more than doubled their share of the U.S. market, at the direct expense of U.S. producers. In all, 15 uncoated paper machines at eight mills across the country have shut down since 2011, eliminating nearly 2,500 jobs. Subject imports have been able to seize tonnage from domestic producers through aggressive underselling and price depression. Average import unit values dropped by $90 per ton from 2011 to 2013 and another $16 per ton in interim 2014. Underselling has increased in intensity as import volumes have grown. The result is a domestic industry that has rapidly lost capacity, production, shipments, market share, employment, and profitability to imports since 2011. The pace of mill and paper machine closures has accelerated as imports have grown. These closures are devastating not only for the companies and workers directly involved, but for thousands of families, small businesses, and local and state governments that rely on paper mills for their livelihoods and economic survival. We ask that you thoroughly and objectively review the facts in this case and help ensure that American businesses and workers are able to compete on a level playing field. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
03.05.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud $1.2 Million Investment to Combat Invasive Species in Southeast Michigan, Lake Erie Basin Thursday, March 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $1,257,350 to help The Nature Conservancy and Wayne County Department of Public Services control and combat invasive species that could harm the Lake Erie basin. This funding comes through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. "Fighting invasive species is a major part of the effort to restore Lake Erie and improve wildlife habitats throughout Southeast Michigan," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "Keeping invasive plant species out of the Lake Erie basin is critically important for Southeast Michigan's environment and economy," said Senator Peters. "I am glad the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is making these targeted investments that will support local partners working to combat the infestations that threaten the ecological health of this vital resource." The Nature Conservancy and Wayne County Department of Public Services are two of five groups chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $2.5 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards to combat invasive species. The Nature Conservancy will receive $622,594 to eliminate invasive plant species from about 400 acres of land in Michigan's Oak Openings Region and Ohio's western Lake Erie watershed. Wayne County Department of Public Services will get $634,756 for a pest management program along the Rouge and Detroit Rivers that will help control invasive species. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. Just last week, Sen. Stabenow introduced and Sen. Peters co-sponsored the Defending Our Great Lakes Act, which would give federal agencies broad authority to take immediate actions to stop the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species.
03.05.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Investment to Combat Invasive Species in West Michigan, Lake Michigan Basin Thursday, March 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $153,314 to help the West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission control and combat invasive species that could harm the Lake Michigan basin. This funding comes through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. "Fighting invasive species is an important part of the effort to keep Muskegon Lake and Bear Lake healthy and to protect wildlife habitats in the area," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "Controlling invasive plant species near Muskegon Lake and Bear Lake is critically important for West Michigan's environment and economy," said Senator Peters. "I am glad the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is making these targeted investments and working with local organizations and community members to combat these infestations that threaten this vital resource." West Michigan Shoreline Regional Development Commission project - one of five groups chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $2.5 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards to combat invasive species - will control invasive plant species along approximately 50 acres of shoreline wetlands near Muskegon Lake and Bear Lake in the Lake Michigan basin. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. Just last week, Sen. Stabenow introduced and Sen. Peters co-sponsored the Defending Our Great Lakes Act, which would give federal agencies broad authority to take immediate actions to stop the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species.
03.05.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud $1.1 Million Investment to Combat Invasive Species in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, Great Lakes Thursday, March 05, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $1,152,384 to help the Upper Peninsula Resource Conservation & Development Council and the Alger Conservation District control and combat invasive species that could harm our land, water, and wildlife habitat. This funding comes through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. "Fighting invasive species is a major part of the effort to restore the Great Lakes and improve wildlife habitats throughout the Upper Peninsula," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement further underscores the importance of partnerships like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which invests in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways." "Keeping invasive plant species out of the Great Lakes is critical for the ecological health of the Upper Peninsula's shorelines and waterways," said Senator Peters. "I am glad the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is targeting these investments to focus on community outreach and developing long-term strategies to combat these infestations that threaten this vital resource." The Upper Peninsula Resource Conservation and Development Council and Alger Conservation District are two of five groups chosen in Michigan to receive a total of more than $2.5 million in Great Lakes Restoration Initiative awards to combat invasive species. The Upper Peninsula Resource Conservation and Development Council will receive $964,922 to fight invasive plant species along 800 acres of coastal shoreline and wetlands in the Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior watersheds. Alger Conservation District will get $187,462 to control invasive species on 130 acres of land in the Lake Michigan and Lake Superior basins. Sens. Stabenow and Peters have been strong advocates for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. Just last week, Sen. Stabenow introduced and Sen. Peters co-sponsored the Defending Our Great Lakes Act, which would give federal agencies broad authority to take immediate actions to stop the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species.
03.05.2015	Senator Stabenow Calls for Enrollment Period to Make Sure Pregnant Women Have Access to Prenatal and Maternity Care Thursday, March 05, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Finance Committee's Health Subcommittee, urged the Department of Health and Human Services to make sure pregnant women have full access to the comprehensive, affordable health coverage guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act. In a letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Sen. Stabenow and 36 other Democratic Senators called for an enrollment period for women who become pregnant at a time outside of open enrollment and are uninsured, or enrolled in a grandfathered plan that does not cover maternity services. Pregnancy would be a "qualifying life event," like marriage, divorce, a job change, or birth, which allow people to add or remove others from their health plans. Sen. Stabenow is a long-time advocate of maternity care and fought to ensure that it is one of the 10 Essential Health Benefits included in all health care plans sold in the individual and small group markets. However, some women still lack access to maternity care, which can cost between $10,000-$20,000 for a pregnancy without complications. Full text of the letter follows below. Dear Secretary Burwell, We write to support your efforts to ensure that women have full access to the comprehensive, affordable health insurance coverage guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA has made historic progress towards ending discrimination against women in the health insurance market by requiring private health insurance plans to include maternity coverage as an Essential Health Benefit. This is a critical protection - good maternity care is essential for the well-being of children, and studies show that maternal mortality rates are three to four times higher for women who do not receive prenatal care. Millions of women have benefitted from this protection, and we appreciate your leadership in getting this done. However, if a woman becomes pregnant at a time outside of the Open Enrollment period and is uninsured, or enrolled in a grandfathered plan that does not cover maternity services, then she will not be able to access coverage for maternity care. Without access to maternity care coverage, these women are forced to either forgo this critical care or face significant out of pocket costs. We appreciate your efforts to address this problem in the recently released Final Notice of Benefit and Payment Parameters for 2016, in which you acknowledge many advocacy groups' request for a special enrollment period in the insurance marketplaces for pregnant women and describe how the flexibility afforded by §155.420(d)(9) allows you to address the issue through sub-regulatory guidance. We encourage you to use that authority to create a special enrollment period to maximize women's access to coverage. We appreciate your timely attention to this matter and look forward to working with you to ensure that all women and families have access to this Essential Health Benefit.
03.03.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on White House Let Girls Learn Initiative Tuesday, March 03, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the Let Girls Learn initiative being led by the White House. This initiative helps young women across the world gain access to quality education: "I applaud the action President Obama is taking to make sure that all young women in the U.S. and across the world have access to quality education. Having led the first all-women CODEL to Africa last year, I saw firsthand how young women can succeed when they are given the right tools to achieve their goals. Whether it's teaching women to read, or giving them the skills they need to run a small business, Let Girls Learn proves that access to education for young women helps move entire societies forward."
02.26.2015	Senator Stabenow, Congresswoman Miller Introduce Bipartisan Bills to Stop Asian Carp Thursday, February 26, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Congresswoman Candice Miller (R-MI) today introduced bipartisan legislation to stop Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes, which put hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk. Invasive species pose a grave threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem and the region's $7 billion recreational fishing and $16 billion recreational boating industries. The Defending Our Great Lakes Act will give federal agencies broad authority to take immediate actions to stop the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species. This legislation will also require key agencies to work with regional stakeholders to institute long-term measures to stop the spread of invasive species between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins. Sen. Stabenow is Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Great Lakes Task Force. In 2012, her Stop Invasive Species Act was signed into law. This expedited the completion of the Army Corps of Engineers' report, known as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS). The report outlined strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. The legislation introduced today directs the Army Corp and federal agencies to implement some of the specific strategies outlined in this report and to coordinate with regional stakeholders on other long-term solutions. "Finding a solution to the threat from Asian carp and other invasive species is not easy," said Senator Stabenow. "Working alongside members of the Michigan delegation and a wide range of stakeholders, including other Great Lakes lawmakers, our bill is our best chance of halting these fish as they come through the Chicago waterway." Rep. Miller, a life-long advocate of the Great Lakes, authored House legislation in 2014 to stop Asian carp. She also serves as the only member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure from Michigan and plays an integral role in ensuring legislative initiatives, like the recently-enacted Water Resources Reform and Development Act, include provisions that protect the Great Lakes from Asian carp. "We cannot afford to take a cavalier approach when it comes to protecting our Great Lakes from Asian carp," Miller noted. "This destructive species is quickly migrating north, destroying nearly every ecosystem along the way. In fact, just this week, we learned that the Illinois Department of Natural Resources has identified nearly 30 of these aggressive fish just south of the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, which is why this bipartisan, bicameral legislation I am working with Senator Stabenow to advance is so important." "Most stakeholders agree that an invasive species inhibiting structure at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam can and should be achieved as soon as possible," said Michigan State University professor William Taylor, the Great Lakes Fishery Commission's U.S. Section Chair. "This legislation seeks the art of the possible by addressing the most immediate opportunities first while not easing up on the pursuit of innovative, permanent, long-term solutions. I commend Senator Stabenow and Congresswoman Miller for their unrelenting work to stanch the tide of invasive species that cost billions of dollars in damage to the US and Canada each year." The Defending Our Great Lakes Act gives the Army Corps of Engineers authority to take near-term and long-term actions to prevent the spread of invasive species at a critical control point near the western end of the Chicago Area Waterway System-the Brandon Road Lock and Dam. The GLMRIS report called for the construction of an engineered channel to put control technologies in place like additional electric barriers, carbon dioxide bubble screens, underwater sound canons and pheromones at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam. The Army Corps of Engineers announced in December that they are evaluating which technologies will be most effective at keeping invasive species out of the Great Lakes Basin. This bill gives the Corps the flexibility to choose from all of their available options prior to making a decision. Under the Defending Our Great Lakes Act, the Army Corps of Engineers will be required to lead federal efforts to prevent the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species in coordination with local, state, and regional officials in consultation with the business and environmental communities. The Army Corps of Engineers will be required to report to Congress within 18 months and each year thereafter. There are 12 additional members of the Michigan delegation who are original cosponsors of the bill, including Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) and Representatives Dan Benishek (R-MI), Mike Bishop (R-MI), John Conyers (D-MI), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Sandy Levin (D-MI), John Moolenaar (R-MI), Dave Trott (R-MI), Fred Upton (R-MI) and Tim Walberg (R-MI). Other original cosponsors include Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Al Franken (D-MN), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Rob Portman (R-OH), Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Representatives Sean Duffy (R-WI), David Joyce (R-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Robert E. Latta (R-OH), Rick Nolan (D-MN), and Louise Slaughter (D-NY). This legislation is supported by the Great Lakes Commission, Great Lakes Fishery Commission, National Wildlife Federation, Great Lakes Metro Chamber of Commerce, Healing our Waters Coalition, Alliance for the Great Lakes, Michigan Trout Unlimited, Michigan Conservation Clubs.
02.25.2015	Stabenow, Peters Announce $7.9 Million Grant for Great Lakes Cleanup Wednesday, February 25, 2015 Michigan's U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, both members of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is awarding $7.9 million to fund habitat restoration projects in the Great Lakes Areas of Concern (AOC). The Great Lakes Commission will lead a regional partnership in coordination with NOAA, the Great Lakes states and local agencies. "The Great Lakes are a critical part of Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Senator Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. "This grant will support regional partners as they work to protect our Great Lakes, waterways, and wildlife habitats." "With 33 million Americans counting on the Great Lakes to provide safe drinking water, it's vital that we have the resources to improve water quality and wildlife habitats in these areas that need the most cleanup action," said Senator Peters. "The health of our Great Lakes is critical to Michigan's environment and our economy, and this significant investment from NOAA will have a positive, tangible impact as we continue working to restore and protect this ecosystem." The U.S.-Canada Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement designates AOCs as sites with the worst legacies of toxic contamination and environmental degradation in the Great Lakes ecosystem in order to focus federal cleanup efforts. The EPA currently lists 11 different AOCs in the State of Michigan.
02.24.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Announcement of New Michigan National Guard Cyber Protection Team Tuesday, February 24, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding the selection of the Michigan National Guard for a Cyber Protection Team: "Today's announcement is great news for Michigan and demonstrates the unique role our state plays in ensuring the safety and security of our nation. Cyber threats have become increasingly more serious as we become more reliant on computers and the Internet. Just last week, I met with the leadership at all of our Michigan National Guard bases, and this responsibility is clearly one of the urgent priorities and missions for our state. Cyber Protection is critical to addressing threats to our men and women in uniform, as well as threats to our infrastructure and economy."
02.24.2015	Senators Stabenow, Kirk Announce Senator Klobuchar as Vice-Chair of Great Lakes Task Force Tuesday, February 24, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Mark Kirk (R-IL), Co-Chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, announced today that Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) will join Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) as Vice-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. The Task Force is a bipartisan working group that advocates for the protection of our Great Lakes. As Vice-Chair, Senator Klobuchar will assist in leading efforts to provide agency oversight and advance legislative initiatives and funding priorities. "It is my pleasure to welcome Senator Klobuchar as the new Co-Vice Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force," said Senator Stabenow. "Amy is a close friend and colleague and an effective leader who works hard to make sure our way of life in the Great Lakes basin is protected. I look forward to working with her and advancing priorities critical to keeping our Lakes safe." "In order to end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes, the nation's greatest ecosystem and the lifeblood of the Chicagoland area, a bipartisan, united effort from Congress is needed," said Senator Kirk. "I look forward to working with my colleagues and new Task Force Co-Vice Chair Senator Klobuchar in order to protect the Lakes for generations to come." "The Great Lakes are national treasures that are vital to the economy and environment in Minnesota and our entire country," Senator Klobuchar said. "We need to continue enhancing the health of the Great Lakes, and that means supporting our shipping and fishing industries while pursuing policies that keep our water clean and clear. As Vice-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, I'm looking forward to continuing my work with Senator Stabenow and Senator Kirk to help protect the Great Lakes for generations to come." The Senate Great Lakes Task Force was founded in the mid-1980s and is associated with the Northeast-Midwest Institute.
02.18.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Announcement to Fund Detroit-Windsor Bridge Plaza Wednesday, February 18, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding a deal between the Obama Administration and Michigan and Canadian leaders to fund the Detroit-Windsor Customs plaza: "Today's news is a critical step forward in building the Detroit-Windsor bridge, which means new jobs, new commerce and increased security for our state. I was pleased to be involved in a number of conversations over the last year both in Ottawa and in DC with top Canadian officials to find a solution to the funding of the plaza. The Canadians should be applauded for their willingness to creatively work with us to remove the final barrier to completing this critical project."
02.17.2015	Senator Stabenow Joins Local Partners to Highlight $20M Public/Private Investment in Saginaw Bay Watershed Tuesday, February 17, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today joined local agriculture and conservation partners in Frankenmuth to highlight a historic $10 million public investment that will be matched by a $10 million private sector investment to improve water quality in the Saginaw Bay Watershed, Michigan's largest watershed. Support for this project comes through the 2014 Farm Bill's Regional Conservation Partnership Program, which Sen. Stabenow and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack launched in Bay City last year. "The Saginaw Bay Watershed Conservation Partnership, along with other recently funded Michigan partnerships, is one of the largest commitments ever made to water quality in the Great Lakes," said Senator Stabenow. "This innovative project is truly driven by local farmers and partners who have the most at stake when it comes to taking care of our land and water. Working together, this partnership will protect the Saginaw Bay Watershed for families, boaters, hunters and anglers to enjoy." "We believe that this public-private partnership between agriculture, the conservation community, private companies and higher education marks a paradigm shift in sustainability and water quality," said Jim Byrum, President of the Michigan Agri-Business Association. "The bottom line is, there's no quick fix on water quality. But this new public-private partnership under RCPP in the Saginaw Bay Watershed represents an important new first step." "The Saginaw Bay Watershed RCP is what The Nature Conservancy likes to call an ‘AND' project, because working with our partners, we will get healthier Rivers and Streams in the Saginaw Valley AND we will get productive, profitable farms AND a prosperous regional agricultural economy," said Rich Bowman, Director of Government Relations, The Nature Conservancy. "It's a triple win and we are excited to be moving forward." "For a long time, Michigan agriculture has embraced the latest practices to maximize our efficiency and boost yields, while making sure what we do is sustainable, efficient, and environmentally responsible," said J.J. Metz, a Certified Crop Advisor with Crop Production Services in Linwood. "We know that to continue being productive, we must be good stewards of our water resources. This new program is an important opportunity to provide solutions and be leaders in this area."Saginaw Bay hosts the largest coastal wetland in Lake Huron and faces numerous water quality challenges from loss of wildlife habitat to algae blooms. The Saginaw Bay Watershed Conservation Partnership will help farmers improve productivity in the field, restore acres of wetlands, reduce excessive sediment and nutrient runoff, and monitor long-term trends in fish population and habitat. The Michigan Agri-Business Association and The Nature Conservancy will lead 35 local partners on the project. Over $40 million will support projects across Michigan and the Great Lakes region that invest in clean water, soil, and wildlife conservation. Each project was designed by dozens of local partners including businesses, non-profits, universities, and federal, state, and local governments. Partners are required to match federal funding, effectively doubling the federal investment.
02.16.2015	U.S. Senators Stabenow, Peters, Donnelly Highlight $13.6M Public/Private Investment in St. Joseph Watershed Monday, February 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Gary Peters (D-MI), and Joe Donnelly (D-IN) visited Pier 33 Marina in St. Joseph today to highlight a historic $6.8 million public investment that will be matched by a $6.8 million private sector investment to improve water quality in the St. Joseph Watershed, the third-largest River Basin of Lake Michigan. The Senators were joined by state and local partners from Michigan and Indiana to discuss how the new St. Joseph Watershed Conservation Partnership will help farmers improve soil quality, water quality, and wildlife habitat in the watershed. "The St. Joseph Watershed Conservation Partnership, along with other recently funded Michigan partnerships, is one of the largest commitments ever made to water quality in the Great Lakes," said Senator Stabenow. "This innovative project is truly driven by local farmers and partners, from Michigan and Indiana, who have the most at stake when it comes to taking care of our land and water. Working together, this partnership will protect the St. Joseph Watershed for families, boaters, hunters and anglers to enjoy." "The St. Joseph Watershed Conservation Partnership will give farmers the tools and resources they need to better protect our land and water while improving the quality of their fields," said Senator Peters. "This is a smart, forward-thinking partnership program, because a growing, thriving economy for Michigan goes hand in hand with a healthy, safe environment." "Hoosier farmers and producers are leaders in preserving the quality of our lands and waters, and I am proud to support them through my work on the Senate Agriculture Committee," Senator Donnelly said. "The 2014 Farm Bill advanced efforts to ensure our landowners have the tools they need to keep our waters clean, and the RCPP-funded projects such as this one, investing in the St. Joseph Watershed stretching through Indiana and Michigan are a welcome addition. This is a win for farmers to further improve their soil and water quality, and it is an efficient investment to help with water treatment for drinking water. Today, I was pleased to join Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, along with our Indiana and Michigan partners, to discuss the local impact of these projects." "This money to support new conservation practices goes directly to farmers who are committed to implementing best management practices to safeguard our water resources. This grant leveraged MDARD, the conservation districts and other partners to provide education and technical services as farmers continue to work hard to protect these key watersheds," said Jamie Clover Adams, Director, Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. "Michigan's ability to match the USDA-NRCS grants with our Groundwater/Freshwater Fund was critical to drawing this additional federal investment into the St. Joseph community." "Indiana is excited to be part of this groundbreaking initiative that allows public and private entities to work together in effort to expand federal, state and local conservation programs," said Jennifer Thum, Indiana State Department of Agriculture, Division of Soil Conservation. "These projects will play an extremely important role in demonstrating water quality practices and encouraging additional farmer adoption so we can continue to make our water cleaner. Indiana is looking forward to turning these funds into more boots on the ground and more conservation practices into the fields." Over 70 percent of the St. Joseph River is in agricultural use, stretching 210 miles through Michigan and Indiana and covering 15 counties before emptying into Lake Michigan at St. Joseph. The St. Joseph Watershed Conservation Partnership will offer farmers financial and technical assistance to access conservation tools that improve productivity in the field and reduce excessive sediment and nutrients in the St. Joseph River. The Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development will partner with the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and over 30 local organizations on the project. Support for this project comes through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, which was created by Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. Over $40 million will support projects across Michigan and the Great Lakes region that invest in clean water, soil, and wildlife conservation. Each project was designed by dozens of local partners including businesses, non-profits, universities, and federal, state, and local governments. Partners are required to match federal funding, effectively doubling the federal investment.
02.13.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Urge President Obama to Keep A-10 Fleet Running Friday, February 13, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today urged President Obama to reconsider the Obama Administration's fiscal year 2016 budget proposal to retire the A-10 Thunderbolt II fleet, which is located at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. In a letter to President Obama, Senators Stabenow and Peters highlighted the importance of the A-10 fleet in military combat and requested that further research be conducted before a decision is made to retire the fighter jets. The letter reads in part: "Given the United States' current military engagements, where the A-10 continues to show its unique capabilities for providing close air support (CAS), we believe it's risky to retire the aircraft before a suitable alternative is in place...We request that you and the Air Force conduct further analysis of alternative CAS operational capabilities and provide additional information regarding how these options would compare to the A-10 before retiring such an important aircraft." Nearly 3,000 full-time civilian and military personnel work at Selfridge Air National Guard Base, in addition to 3,000 members of the Air and Army National Guard and the Reserve components of the U.S. Armed Forces. The base contributes hundreds of millions of dollars to Michigan's economy each year. The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Mr. President, As members of the Michigan delegation, we have serious concerns about the proposal to divest from the A-10 in your FY2016 budget request. Given the United States' current military engagements, where the A-10 continues to show its unique capabilities for providing close air support (CAS), we believe it's risky to retire the aircraft before a suitable alternative is in place. At this time, no other aircraft is able to engage in the difficult, close proximity missions with the level of success as the A-10. In a letter to the Secretary of Defense last November, the Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs), who as you know are specialists in CAS, said that "F-15s, F-16s, and B-1s cannot replicate the CAS capabilities of the A-10, and we know from combat experience that the elimination of the A-10 before a viable replacement achieves full operational capability will cost American lives." Men and women serving in the Army and Marines Corps continue to recount how valuable the A-10 is for protecting troops under fire and saving lives. In January, Maj. Parvin and Capt. Cavazos received the Distinguished Flying Cross with Valor for saving the lives of 6 marines in Afghanistan. These pilots flew through heavy layers of clouds and dusk to protect marines who had been ambushed by insurgents. Marines on the ground that night say they are certain they wouldn't have made it out alive without the CAS supported provided by Parvin and Cavazos. We respect the difficult budgetary decisions you and our Armed Forces have to face while protecting our troops and achieving operational successes. However, retiring the A-10 before suitable alternatives, capable of the same level of operational engagement, are ready is unwise. Therefore, we request that you and the Air Force conduct further analysis of alternative CAS operational capabilities and provide additional information regarding how these options would compare to the A-10 before retiring such an important aircraft. Sincerely,
02.13.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Cosponsor Great Lakes Protection Bill Legislation Would Formally Authorize Efforts to Restore the Health of Great Lakes Friday, February 13, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced they are cosponsoring the bipartisan Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act (GLEEPA), a bill which would bolster ongoing efforts to protect and restore one of Michigan's most important ecological treasures by equipping communities with the tools they need to combat invasive species, protect wildlife habitats and improve water quality in the Great Lakes. The legislation, led by Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Mark Kirk (R-IL), will also enhance the coordination of federal efforts to restore the Great Lakes to ensure they continue to serve as an economic driver for the State of Michigan. "Just like generations before us, it is our responsibility to protect and preserve the Great Lakes," said Sen. Stabenow. "With the Great Lakes facing numerous threats from invasive species like Asian carp and water contamination, there must be a larger commitment to protect our Lakes for years to come. Michigan's economy relies on the Great Lakes' multi-billion dollar fishing, boating, and tourism industries, and this bill will help protect those jobs and our Michigan way of life." "The strength of Michigan's economy and the well-being of our environment are deeply intertwined with the health of the Great Lakes, which continue to face serious threats ranging from industrial pollution to invasive species," said Sen. Peters. "Ensuring we have the resources and focus to improve water quality in the world's largest system of fresh surface water will require a sustained and coordinated effort. I supported this legislation to formally authorize federal water cleanup and restoration efforts as a member of the House, and I am committed to working with my colleagues to move this bipartisan bill forward in the Senate." The Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act would authorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which was launched in 2010 to address water quality and invasive species problems and is the largest investment in the Great Lakes in two decades. Senators Stabenow and Peters have strongly supported funding for this critical investment. The bill would also reauthorize the Great Lakes Legacy program that deals with contaminated sediments and the Great Lakes National Program Office within the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Finally, the bill would establish an Interagency Task Force to streamline the work being done by different stakeholders to restore the Great Lakes. The previous version of this bill was led by former Michigan Senator Carl Levin and cosponsored by Senator Stabenow in the 113th Congress. Senator Peters cosponsored the House version of that bill.
04.10.2018	Senator Stabenow Introduces the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act Tuesday, April 10, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) introduced the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act of 2018, S. 2637, which will improve maternity care for women and newborns. The United States has the worst rate of maternal deaths in the developed world and one of the highest rates of infant mortality. Michigan has the 17th highest rate of infant mortality in the country, with 6.68 infant deaths per 1,000 births. “We all have a stake in keeping moms and babies healthy,” said Senator Stabenow. “My bill makes sure moms and babies get the best care possible from the doctor’s office to the delivery room.” “The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act will make a real difference in the lives of moms and babies by helping to ensure every pregnant woman and infant gets the highest quality care possible,” stated March of Dimes President Stacey D. Stewart. “March of Dimes strongly supports this effort to increase the quality of perinatal health care, and we look forward to its swift enactment.” “Not enough women and infants in the United States are getting the high-quality health care they need and deserve. The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act would help give more maternity care providers the necessary tools to deliver the best possible care while maximizing the value of our health care dollars,” said Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women & Families. “We applaud Senator Stabenow for reintroducing this bill in the Senate and for her unwavering commitment to improving the health of women and families, and we urge the Senate to prioritize its passage this year.” “The goal of every obstetrician-gynecologist is a healthy outcome for both mother and baby. To that end, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) is pleased to support the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act,” said ACOG President Haywood L. Brown, MD. “Rates of maternal mortality and severe morbidity are rising in the United States and we know that half of these maternal deaths can be prevented. The U.S. also has an unacceptably high rate of infant mortality with preterm birth being a significant contributor. That is why it is imperative that we invest in locally-relevant improvements to maternity care, like perinatal quality collaboratives. These collaboratives are an important tool to help make sure that evidence-based practice recommendations — from reducing early elective deliveries and cesareans, to treating women struggling with substance use disorder -- are implemented in a way that truly improves care for women. ACOG thanks Senator Stabenow for her leadership on the issue of improving maternal health, and looks forward to working with both chambers of Congress to advance this bill into law.” The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act of 2018 will improve maternity care for women and newborns by holding Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program accountable through higher quality standards. Medicaid currently has a set of guidelines for pediatric and adult care but no specific standards for maternity and infant care. The legislation will also provide funding for care quality partnerships that will bring together states, health care providers, insurance companies, and other stakeholders to develop and carry out new strategies to improve maternity and infant care. U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) joined Stabenow to introduce the legislation.
02.11.2015	Senator Stabenow Agricultural Research Measure Advances in Senate Wednesday, February 11, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded her colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee for advancing a measure to support agricultural research. The measure, previously known as the Charitable Agricultural Research Act, was introduced by Sens. Stabenow and John Thune (R-SD) last Congress and encourages the creation of public-private partnerships to boost funding and spur innovation for agricultural research. This will allow colleges like Michigan State University to continue their work to help make sure there is a safe and steady food supply for the world's growing population. Sen. Stabenow is a senior member on the Senate Finance Committee where the measure received bipartisan support. "We need to invest in innovative research if we want a safe and abundant food supply and a strong agricultural industry in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "This measure is a ‘win-win' effort that builds on decades of success and momentum by continuing to pursue new research through creative partnerships." Doug Buhler, Director, Michigan State University AgBioResearch: "This initiative will encourage more private investment into agriculture research and complement current funding programs. It will enhance our ability to support food security for our nation now and into the future. Michigan State University supports this effort and hopes that it will become a reality." Over the last 60 years, agricultural research has expanded food production significantly. Michigan agriculture contributes over $100 billion to the state's economy and exports $3 billion in farm goods annually. However, agricultural scientists warn that failing to invest in agricultural research could spell disaster for the future of American food security and safety. The Charitable Agricultural Research Act seeks to address these challenges by creating agricultural research organizations (AROs) that would work in conjunction with agricultural and land-grant colleges and universities to conduct research in the field of agriculture.
02.11.2015	Senators Stabenow, Blunt Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Create Job Opportunities in America’s Hardest-Hit Cities Wednesday, February 11, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) introduced legislation that will spur economic growth and create job opportunities in 30 cities by improving the Empowerment Zone program. The Empowering Jobs Act of 2015 will extend the Empowerment Zone program for two years and make the program more effective by expanding the way businesses and local governments can take advantage of their allocations of tax-exempt bonds. The Stabenow-Blunt bill will ease the requirements for how these bonds can be used and encourage more businesses to invest in America's hardest-hit cities. "Empowerment Zones are key to bringing economic growth to struggling cities," said Sen. Stabenow. "Local businesses in Detroit already see benefits from this important program, but right now their money is being left on the table because of unnecessary restrictions. This bill will encourage growth by allowing more businesses to hire workers and invest in our cities, which will keep moving our country forward." "If enacted, the legislation introduced by Senators Stabenow and Blunt would be a great tool to help jumpstart new investment in Detroit's empowerment zone and create employment opportunities for our residents," said Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan. "We are seeing a renewed interest in investing in Detroit. These proposed modifications to the Empowerment Zone program would make it a lot easier for us to bring more economic development plans to reality." Empowerment Zones were established by Congress in 1994 as a way to boost economic development in particularly struggling cities through tax incentives, grants, and tax-exempt financing. The Empowerment Zone bonds encourage the construction of economic development projects like commercial and manufacturing centers. The Empowering Jobs Act of 2015 will allow the 35 percent in-zone hiring requirement for the bonds to be met by hiring 35 percent of people from distressed Census tracts within the city in which the Empowerment Zone is located. Sen. Stabenow fought to extend Empowerment Zones as part of the EXPIRE Act, which would have extended a number of expiring tax provisions for 2014 and 2015. The Tax Increase Prevention Act was passed into law to retroactively extend the Empowerment Zone program through the end of 2014.
02.10.2015	Senator Stabenow's bill will hold countries accountable for manipulating their currency Tuesday, February 10, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced a bill to hold countries like China and Japan accountable for cheating trade law by manipulating their currency. Led by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Jeff Sessions (R-AL), The Currency Undervaluation Investigation Act would give U.S. industries the tools they need to stop countries from cheating American manufacturers and workers. Senator Stabenow continues to lead the effort to make sure all of America's trade agreements include strong and enforceable currency rules. "When countries like China and Japan cheat, Michigan workers and manufacturers lose," said Stabenow. "It's time to stop unfair trade practices like currency manipulation and hold countries accountable when they don't play by the rules." According to the Peterson Institute for International Economics, China's currency remains significantly undervalued against the dollar. Sen. Stabenow has been a long-time sponsor and proponent of legislation that penalizes countries that manipulate their currency. Too often, when consumers buy automobiles, tires, appliances or furniture made in countries like China and Japan the price seems like a bargain. However, consumers are actually seeing a cheaper price because foreign governments subsidize their products by keeping their currency undervalued. Because of this, these countries can undercut Michigan manufacturers and put them out of business because of unfair competition. The Currency Undervaluation Investigation Act allows U.S. trade law to counter the economic harm to U.S. manufacturers caused by currency manipulation by requiring the U.S. Department of Commerce to investigate whether currency undervaluation by a foreign government provides a countervailable subsidy. This action will provide relief to American workers and businesses undermined by manipulated exchange rates.
02.04.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on One-Year Anniversary of the Bipartisan Farm Bill Wednesday, February 04, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today issued the following statement on the one-year anniversary of her 2014 Farm Bill. On February 4, 2014, the Senate passed the bipartisan bill 68-32, sending the legislation to President Obama for his signature. On February 7, 2014, President Obama signed the Farm Bill into law at Michigan State University. "One year ago this week, President Obama signed a new bipartisan Farm Bill into law right here in Michigan. This isn't your father's Farm Bill; this is an investment in our future, with Michigan on every page. Now, one year later, more Michigan farmers and entrepreneurs have new opportunities to create jobs and sell their Michigan products in grocery stores and farmers' markets and there is a historic new focus on protecting our Great Lakes. The 2014 Farm Bill proves that by working across the aisle, Congress can get things done that grow our economy, create jobs, and save taxpayers money."
02.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Great Lakes Cuts in President Obama’s Budget Monday, February 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement on Great Lakes funding in President Obama's fiscal year 2016 budget. Sen. Stabenow championed the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) and has called for strong funding for the Great Lakes by asking for $475 million in 2014. The President's budget decreases GLRI by $50 million compared to current funding levels. "I am extremely disappointed that President Obama's budget cuts funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. With so many water quality challenges, we need to continue to invest in the health of our Great Lakes and waterways for years to come. That is why as Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force I will continue to push for funding and policies that support Great Lakes projects that protect our drinking water, combat invasive species, and protect wildlife habitats."
02.02.2015	Senator Stabenow Applauds National Investment in Beginning Farmers Project Monday, February 02, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced a $750,000 grant for Michigan State University to help train and support beginning farmers. The funding, which comes through the USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, was authorized by Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Beginning farmers are critical to the future of agriculture," said Stabenow. "I'm extremely proud of Michigan State's leadership when it comes to agricultural research. The support announced today will help make sure our beginning farmers have the education, training, and resources needed to grow and produce things right here in Michigan." Michigan State University's "Michigan's Emerging Farmers - Strategies And Tools To Enhance Success" project will bring together key organizations and provide tools and support for beginning and disadvantaged farmers. The funding, which comes through USDA's Beginning Farmer and Rancher Grant program, will benefit hundreds of farmers and help boost the local economy.
02.02.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Call for Increased Funding for Harbor Maintenance, Great Lakes Navigation Projects Monday, February 02, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, and Gary Peters, member of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, urged the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to direct additional funding to Great Lakes navigation projects in FY2015. In a letter to Jo-Ellen Darcy, Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) and Lt. General Thomas Bostick, Commanding General of the Army Corps of Engineers, Sen. Stabenow and Sen. Peters along with 9 colleagues called for additional resources to address the backlog of dredging and maintenance projects across Michigan and the Great Lakes region. "While we appreciate the additional support you provided to Great Lakes navigation maintenance in FY2014, a backlog of unmet navigation system maintenance remains across the Great Lakes," the letter stated. "Therefore, we urge the Corps to direct additional resources for Great Lakes navigation projects in FY2015. This additional support is sorely needed to address the lack of maintenance of our locks, breakwaters, and dredging needs, which continues to force vessels to light-load, grounds vessels, impedes safe navigation, and closes harbors." Sen. Stabenow has led the effort to make sure Michigan's ports, harbors, and waterways are properly maintained, which is critical to supporting Michigan's shipping, boating and tourism industries. Last year, the Water Resources Development Act for the first time treated the Great Lakes as a single navigational system and increased funding for harbor maintenance. Sen. Stabenow has also been a strong advocate for using the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for its intended purpose: maintaining our ports and harbors. Currently, only half of Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund dollars are on spent on actual harbor maintenance. Sen. Peters has aggressively fought for the necessary resources to ensure our Great Lakes continue to thrive and preserve the thousands of shipping, tourism and agriculture jobs supported by the Lakes. In the House of Representatives, he proudly voted for last year's Water Resources Reform and Development Act to modernize water infrastructure and designate the Great Lakes as a single navigation system, and he has consistently urged the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dedicate increased resources to maintenance and dredging projects along the Great Lakes. Full text of the letter follows below. Dear Secretary Darcy and LTG Bostick: The Great Lakes provide an essential transportation network for the movement of products, such as road salt, iron and steel products, coal, and agricultural commodities for domestic and international consumption. Utilizing the Great Lakes navigation system is often the least expensive option to ship these goods that are necessary to build our roads, power our homes, enable manufacturing, and feed our families. However, the Great Lakes infrastructure lacks adequate maintenance and the efficiency of the system is threatened by a growing backlog of dredging needs, aging locks, and deteriorating breakwaters, piers, and jetties. We need to modernize and rebuild this infrastructure in order to realize the full economic potential the Great Lakes provide. On December 13, 2014, Congress approved an appropriations measure for fiscal year 2015 (FY2015) that provided funding to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps) for a variety of water resource projects, including Great Lakes navigation. In addition to allocating funds for specific projects, Congress also provided additional guidance and funding for the Corps to distribute to navigation projects across the country. As it was explained in the accompanying joint statement, Congress provided this additional funding because "Federal navigation channels maintained at only a fraction of authorized dimensions . . . results in economic inefficiencies and risks infrastructure failure, which can cause substantial economic losses. Investing in operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of infrastructure today will save taxpayers money in the future." Of this additional funding provided by Congress, the Great Lakes navigation projects are eligible for approximately $255 million, which includes additional support for navigation maintenance; small, remote or subsistence navigation; deep- and shallow- draft harbors and channels; and regional sediment management. While we appreciate the additional support you provided to Great Lakes navigation maintenance in FY2014, a backlog of unmet navigation system maintenance remains across the Great Lakes. Therefore, we urge the Corps to direct the needed resources for Great Lakes navigation projects in FY2015. This additional support is sorely needed to address the lack of maintenance of our locks, breakwaters, and dredging needs, which continues to force vessels to light-load, grounds vessels, impedes safe navigation, and closes harbors. As you work to direct the FY2015 funds continues, we urge you to recognize the importance of investing in the Great Lakes navigation system and the critical impact it has on our economy. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely,
01.28.2015	Stabenow, Peters Denounce Republican Opposition to Protecting Michigan’s Environment Wednesday, January 28, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters expressed disappointment after their amendment to protect Michigan's environment and enhance oversight over aging pipelines in the Great Lakes, such as those underneath the Straits of Mackinac, was defeated today. The amendment, which was offered during Senate consideration of legislation authorizing construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, was opposed by a majority of Republicans. "It is totally unacceptable that my Republican colleagues voted against putting pipeline safety standards first," said Senator Stabenow. "We have a 60-year-old pipeline running under the Great Lakes and if that pipeline breaks, it will be a disaster like nothing we've seen in Michigan before. We need to put pipeline safety first to make sure we prevent harmful and costly oil spills like the one that happened in the Kalamazoo River from ever happening again." "I am disappointed the Senate failed to pass this critical, commonsense amendment that would improve oversight for pipeline safety," said Senator Peters. "Following the catastrophic oil spill that contaminated the Kalamazoo River, Michiganders know that a pipeline leak can have devastating consequences. I am committed to ensuring a disaster like that never happens again in Michigan or across the country, and I will continue working to prevent pipelines from posing a threat to the Great Lakes or Michigan's environment. The amendment would require the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to certify that they have the resources necessary to conduct proper oversight of pipelines in the Great Lakes before approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. It also would require PHMSA to develop recommendations for special conditions to apply to pipelines in the Great Lakes, similar to the 59 special conditions developed for Keystone. This measure will ensure the agency responsible for overseeing petroleum pipelines has the resources required to do the job.
01.26.2015	Senator Stabenow Introduces Measure to Stop U.S. Postal Service Facilities Closures Monday, January 26, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today introduced an amendment that would stop the U.S. Postal Service from continuing the closure of facilities for two years, preventing delays in services that will impact Michigan families and small businesses. Sen. Stabenow joined Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and 11 other senators in authoring this amendment to legislation currently before the Senate. The amendment would also re-establish overnight delivery standards for first-class mail. "The post office provides a critical basic service to everyone no matter where you live. Closing facilities and cutting services will lead to delays that will harm Michigan businesses and families," Stabenow said. "I remain committed to stopping closures and ending a requirement by law that the Postal Service overfund retiree health care, which is the biggest reason for its recent operating losses." The Postal Service announced in July 2014 that they would begin consolidating facilities. So far, 82 mail processing facilities are being consolidated, including mail processing centers in Kingsford, Kalamazoo, and Lansing. Last November, Sen. Stabenow sent a letter to the Postmaster General asking for the consolidations and closures to be delayed until studies are completed and customers are informed and given an opportunity to share concerns. Sen. Stabenow also sponsored the Postal Service Protection Act last year, which ends a requirement by law that the Postal Service overfund retiree health care at a cost of $5 billion a year. This unnecessarily burdensome requirement that no other business must follow is responsible for nearly all of the Postal Service's recent operating losses. This legislation also allows the Postal Service to modernize with new products and services.
01.26.2015	Senators Stabenow and Kirk Elected Chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force Monday, January 26, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Mark Kirk (R-IL) were elected by their Great Lakes colleagues to Chair the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. The Task Force is a bipartisan working group that advocates for the protection of our Great Lakes. As Chairs, Senators Stabenow and Kirk will convene meetings of members and staff representing the states bordering our Great Lakes and will coordinate efforts to provide agency oversight and advance legislative initiatives and funding priorities. "No other state has more at stake than Michigan when it comes to the protection of our Great Lakes and the issues we face today are as challenging as ever," said Stabenow. "This is an important leadership role that will continue to give Michigan a strong voice as we work together to protect our Lakes and water resources. I look forward to working with my co-chair, Senator Kirk, and our task force members as we tackle these critical challenges." "As Co-Chairs, my colleague Senator Stabenow and I are committed to cleaning up toxic hot spots, removing the threat of invasive species and ending sewage dumping in the Great Lakes, the Crown Jewel of the Midwest's ecosystem, once and for all," said Kirk. "It is crucial that we work together with this bipartisan Task Force to protect the reverence of the lakes and ensure they remain clean and contaminant-free for the next generation." Sen. Stabenow's record on Great Lakes issues is longstanding. Her first legislation to pass the Senate was a ban on drilling for oil and gas in the Great Lakes. She authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act to address the threat from Asian carp, has championed the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative through Congress, and authored the 2014 Farm Bill, which included a historic investment in land and water conservation. Senator Kirk has served as a Co-Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force since 2011 and believes the lakes are our country's most precious natural resource. Throughout his time in Congress, Kirk has fought to restore contaminated hot spots, such as Waukegan Harbor in Illinois, to their full economic and environmental potential. The Senator continues to work across the aisle and with local stakeholders to advance legislation to ban sewage dumping in the Great Lakes and combat the threat of invasive species. Additionally, Kirk has co-authored comprehensive Great Lakes legislation to authorize key programs to restore and protect the Great Lakes, including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). The Senate Great Lakes Task Force was founded in the mid-1980s and is associated with the Northeast-Midwest Institute.
01.22.2015	Senator Stabenow Becomes Top Democrat on Senate Health Subcommittee Thursday, January 22, 2015 The U.S. Senate Committee on Finance voted to make Senator Debbie Stabenow the Ranking Member on the Health Subcommittee. Senator Stabenow is a champion for policies that will improve our health system and lower the cost of care for families and businesses in Michigan and across the country. "Every family needs the chance to get and keep affordable health care when they need it," said Stabenow. "I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find ways to continue to improve America's health care system. We also need to preserve and protect Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and the Affordable Care Act to ensure that every American has access to quality, affordable care." The Health Subcommittee has jurisdiction over Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program, key parts of the Affordable Care Act, the physician and provider reimbursement system, ERISA group health plans, and health privacy protections. In addition to the Health Subcommittee, Senator Stabenow will also serve as a member of the Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs and Global Competitiveness.
01.21.2015	Stabenow, Peters Introduce Measures to Protect Michigan’s Environment Wednesday, January 21, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters introduced two amendments to protect Michigan's environment and provide more information on potential risks surrounding the Keystone XL Pipeline. These two measures would amend legislation currently before the Senate authorizing construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, to call for a study on the potential health and environmental risks of petroleum coke as a result of refining oil transported through the Keystone XL Pipeline and enhance oversight over aging pipelines around the Great Lakes, such as those underneath the Straits of Mackinac. "In Michigan, we had a pipeline break and dump a million gallons of oil into the Kalamazoo River. In Montana right now, a pipeline broke and dumped tens of thousands of gallons of oil into the Yellowstone River, making water unsafe to drink," said Senator Stabenow. "Since Canadian oil companies don't pay into the trust fund used to clean up oil spills, it's even more important that we make sure the pipelines owned by Canadian companies, like the Keystone Pipeline and the pipeline running under the Straits of Mackinac, are safe and that American taxpayers will not be forced to bail them out if a pipeline breaks." "Between the health and environmental risks that were posed by pet coke stored along the Detroit River, and the oil spill near Kalamazoo, Michiganders know the consequences of poorly-stored pet coke and pipeline leaks all too well," Senator Peters said. "These amendments will give us the information needed to better understand the risks posed by the Keystone XL Pipeline. With these studies and oversight improvements, my hope is that we can take action to ensure that the damages to Michigan's environment do not happen again across the country." The first amendment would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to conduct a study on the potential environmental impact of and best practices for transportation, storage, and handling of pet coke and other by-products from refining oil transported through Keystone XL. In 2013, pet coke stored along the Detroit River in Detroit blew into nearby neighborhoods and businesses, posing health risks and threatening the Great Lakes watershed. This amendment is important because the oil intended to be transported through the Keystone XL pipeline is from tar sands, which has significantly higher carbon content than conventional crude oil and produces different byproducts, including pet coke. Peters previously introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives calling for a study on the risks of pet coke. The second amendment requires the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to certify that they have the resources necessary to conduct proper oversight of pipelines in the Great Lakes before approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. It also would require PHMSA to develop recommendations for special conditions to apply to pipelines in the Great Lakes, similar to the 59 special conditions developed for Keystone. This measure will ensure the agency responsible for overseeing petroleum pipelines has the resources required to do the job.
01.21.2015	Senator Stabenow Honored by Outdoor Life Magazine Wednesday, January 21, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a member of the Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus, was honored with the Open Country Award in the January 15th edition of Outdoor Life Magazine for being an ally of hunters and anglers in the passage of the 2014 Farm Bill. Outdoor Life is a national sportsmen's magazine that supports hunting and fishing in the U.S. She received the award today. "Men and women who hunt and fish spend their time in the outdoors and know first-hand the critical importance of land and water conversation," said Stabenow. "As someone who grew up in Northern Michigan where hunting and fishing is part of our way of life, I am very appreciative of this recognition." Outdoor Life's Open Country program honors those who are making a real difference in creating access to public lands for those who hunt, fish and trap. The Magazine noted that the Farm Bill authored by Stabenow "condensed 23 previous conservation programs into 13, saving taxpayers $6 billion while maintaining the majority of the key conservation programs we value." Last week, Sen. Stabenow announced that over 100 projects will receive a historic $370 million through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, a program created by the 2014 Farm Bill to encourage partnerships between agricultural and conservation groups to help conserve soil health, protect water quality, and restore wildlife habitat. Among these projects are five in Michigan, which will receive $40 million to invest in conservation. Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill is our country's biggest investment in land and water conservation and has been called the most significant conservation legislation in generations. Click here to read Outdoor Life's statement on honoring Sen. Stabenow.
02.05.2019	Senator Stabenow Statement on State of the Union Address Tuesday, February 05, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) released a statement following President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “I am deeply concerned about the direction of our country reflected in the President’s address this evening. We need to come together and find bipartisan solutions on issues important to Michigan like fixing our nation’s infrastructure, lowering the cost of health care, and keeping jobs in the United States.”
01.16.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on Obama Administration Announcement to Invest in Infrastructure, Clean Drinking Water Friday, January 16, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement applauding the Obama Administration's announcement to invest in public-private partnerships that will help improve America's infrastructure, ensure drinking water is safe for everyone and create access to broadband networks for families across the country: "Today's announcement will keep our economy growing for years to come. We need clean drinking water, safe roads and bridges, and access to high-speed Internet to build an economy that can compete in the 21st century. "Our parents and grandparents knew that you needed to build a solid foundation if you wanted a strong economy. Now is the time for all of us to come together and build an America that we will be proud to leave to the next generation." For more information about the announcement, click here.
01.16.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud $500,000 Grant for Flint to Revitalize South Saginaw Corridor Neighborhood Friday, January 16, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julian Castro's announcement that Flint will receive $500,000 to help transform and revitalize the city's neighborhoods, making them safer for families and more prosperous for local businesses. This support comes through the Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant program, which is focused on improving housing, education, health and public safety in local communities. "Thanks to the hard work and focused determination of so many local leaders, Flint has made incredible progress in recent years," said Stabenow. "This funding recognizes this progress and will give an additional boost to the further transformation of the City and community." "This grant puts the City of Flint on the path toward securing a brighter future, as members of the community work together with businesses and organizations to build safer, sustainable neighborhoods," Peters said. "This program will help revitalize areas in Flint and provide an avenue to affordable housing for middle class families and those working hard to get there." "This new grant will enable us to work with residents, partners and the Flint Housing Commission to develop a neighborhood transformation plan," said Flint Mayor Dayne Walling. "This is another step forward in implementing the Imagine Flint Master Plan and demonstrating that we can create neighborhoods that are safe, vibrant, and inclusive in every part of the city." Last year, Senator Stabenow wrote a letter to Secretary Castro in support of Flint's proposal. The city will work with the Flint Housing Commission and local stakeholders to invest in the South Saginaw Corridor and reinvigorate the surrounding neighborhood. The project includes a plan to build new rental units in the HUD-assisted apartment complex Atherton East. The next step is to apply for a Choice Neighborhoods Implementation Grant to fund construction.
01.14.2015	Senator Stabenow Announces Historic $40 Million Investment in Conservation Projects Across Michigan, Great Lakes Region Wednesday, January 14, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced a historic $40 million investment in critical conservation projects across Michigan and the Great Lakes Region supported by over 130 local partners. This major investment is a direct result of the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, created in Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, to protect our Great Lakes and invest in water, land, and wildlife conservation across the country. Three Michigan projects were awarded that will address water quality concerns in Western Lake Erie, Saginaw Bay, and the St. Joseph River. One project will address wildlife habitat in Michigan's Upper Peninsula forests and another will improve forest health throughout the state. "Today's announcement is historic and marks one of the largest single federal investments ever in water quality conservation in Michigan and the Great Lakes," said Stabenow. "Our Michigan projects bring together hundreds of partners already working hard to protect our water, land, and wildlife habitat for future generations. This first-of-its-kind commitment to conserving our natural resources is truly unprecedented and will have a lasting impact on the health of our Great Lakes." Michigan's five proposals were designed by over 130 local partners- including businesses, non-profits, universities, and federal, state and local governments- specifically for their region. Partners are required to match federal funding, effectively doubling the federal investment. Details of the Michigan projects: $17.5 million- Tri-State Western Lake Erie Basin Phosphorus Reduction Initiative This partnership will help farmers implement conservation practices to reduce phosphorus and sediment runoff into the western Lake Erie basin and reduce toxic algae blooms. The Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development will lead the initiative in collaboration with Ohio, Indiana and more than 40 local partners. The initiative will focus on the West Lake Erie Watershed from Sandusky at the southern limit to River Raisin in the north. $10 million- Saginaw Bay Watershed Conservation Partnership This initiative will help farmers and conservation partners improve the water quality and wildlife habitat in the Saginaw Bay Watershed, which has been negatively impacted by phosphorus and nutrient sediment runoff. The Michigan Agri-Business Association and Nature Conservancy will lead 35 local partners to restore acres of wetlands, reduce excessive sediments and nutrients in the watershed, and monitor long-term trends in the fish population and habitat. $6.8 million- St. Joseph Watershed Conservation Partnership Over 70 percent of the St. Joseph River is in agricultural use, stretching 210 miles. This project will offer farmers public and private financial and technical assistance to access conservation tools that reduce excessive sediment and nutrients in the St. Joseph River and improve wildlife and fish habitat. The Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development will partner with the State of Indiana and over 30 local organizations. $5 million- Improving Forest Health for Wildlife Resources in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin This project will improve forest health on nearly 12,000 acres of nonindustrial forest land in Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin in order to conserve essential habitat for threatened and endangered species. In Michigan, work will focus on counties in the Upper Peninsula including but not limited to Marquette, Baraga, Iron, Dickinson, and Menominee. The project is led by the American Bird Conservancy and the State of Wisconsin in collaboration with Michigan, Minnesota, and 25 local partners. $1 million- Training Foresters to Enhance the Sustainable Management of Private Forest Land This project will improve healthier forests within the 12 million acres of private forest land throughout Michigan. The Michigan Department of Natural Resources Forestry Division will train private and public sector professional foresters to work with landowners to implement best management practices that combat soil erosion and sediment runoff from timber harvests. About the Regional Conservation Partnership Program USDA will provide $1.2 billion in funding for the Regional Conservation Partnership Program over the five-year life of the Farm Bill. This funding can leverage an additional $1.2 billion from partners for a total of $2.4 billion for conservation. $400 million in USDA funding was available in the first year. In addition, USDA has designated the Great Lakes as one of eight Critical Conservation Areas across the country, which provides an opportunity for additional funding to address water quality issues. The other areas designated are the Chesapeake Bay Watershed, Mississippi River Basin, Longleaf Pine Range, Columbia River Basin, California Bay Delta, Prairie Grasslands, and the Colorado River Basin. About the Farm Bill The 2014 Farm Bill is our country's biggest investment in private land conservation and has been called the most significant conservation legislation in generations. Voluntary partnerships between agricultural and conservation groups help farmers conserve soil health, protect water quality, and restore wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes region and across our state.
01.09.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Applaud Michigan State University’s Role in New High-Tech Manufacturing Hub Friday, January 09, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today applauded President Obama's announcement that Michigan State University's Composite Materials and Structures Center and Composite Vehicles Research Center will serve as an automotive manufacturing center under the new Institute for Advanced Composite Manufacturing Innovation. This Institute will promote high-tech manufacturing and job growth in Michigan and across the country. "This is great news for Michigan," Stabenow said. "This announcement recognizes Michigan State University's national leadership in the area of advanced manufacturing. Michigan continues to lead the way in manufacturing innovation and job creation." "Michigan has led the way in manufacturing and automotive innovation that invested in our workers and created good, middle class jobs," said Peters. "This partnership with Michigan State will continue to strengthen our state's position as a global leader in research and technology development that will support high-tech job creation, economic growth and the resurgence of the American auto and manufacturing industries." In addition to today's selection of Michigan State, in 2012 Michigan was selected by the Department of Energy as a location for an Advanced Battery Hub and in 2014 by the Department of Defense for the American Lightweight Materials Manufacturing Innovation Institute. Last year, Senators Stabenow and Peters urged U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz to fund the Institute, which spans six states - Michigan, Tennessee, Indiana, Ohio, Colorado, and Kentucky. The institute will partner with more than 200 businesses, universities, community colleges, labs, states, and local governments including Ford Motor Company, Michigan Economic Development Corporation, The Dow Chemical Company, and the City of Detroit. The Institute for Advanced Composite Manufacturing Innovation will be supported with a $70 million grant over the next five years through the Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy and falls under the National Network for Manufacturing Innovation, which is a network of regional hubs to accelerate development and inspire innovative manufacturing technologies.
01.08.2015	Senators Stabenow, Peters Announce Support to Conserve Wildlife Habitats in Abbaye Peninsula and Huron Bay Thursday, January 08, 2015 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced support to conserve wildlife habitats in the Abbaye Peninsula and Huron Bay of Lake Superior in Baraga County. The Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Keweenaw Land Trust received a $1,000,000 grant through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's National Coastal Wetlands Conservation Grant Program. The grant will be used to purchase 1,374 acres of coastal wetlands and near shore aquatic habitats, including approximately a mile of Lake Superior shoreline, which support a diversity of mammal and bird species like raptors, waterfowl, and black bears. ‘The Upper Peninsula's beautiful coastal shoreline is home to a diversity of wildlife from waterfowl to black bears," said Stabenow. "This funding will protect important natural habitats from development in the Abbaye Peninsula and Huron Bay of Lake Superior." "The Great Lakes and their coastal wetlands are critical resources for Michigan's economy and our way of life, supporting millions of jobs and creating billions of dollars in wages every year," Peters said. "Preserving our state's natural resources is critical, and this grant will help ensure that the Lakes are protected for generations to come." The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service awarded $21 million to 25 projects in 13 coastal and Great Lakes communities, which will enhance and protect 11,000 acres of coastal wetlands and natural habitats and generate billions of dollars in recreation and tourism.
01.07.2015	Senator Stabenow Statement on President Obama’s visit to Michigan Wednesday, January 07, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement on President Obama's visit to the Ford Michigan Assembly Plant in Wayne. Michigan is a leader in manufacturing job growth, creating 133,000 manufacturing jobs since 2009. Overall, the American auto industry has added more than 500,000 jobs since mid-2009. Senator Stabenow championed the effort in the Senate to rescue the auto industry and authored the Department of Energy's Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Program in 2007. Ford received a $5.9 billion retooling loan in 2009, which the company used to retool the Michigan Assembly Plant to make hybrid and plug-in versions of the Ford Focus and Ford C-Max. "America is creating jobs and growing at the fastest rate in two decades, and Michigan is the perfect place for President Obama to showcase the progress we've made and the bright future that lies ahead. The President, Michigan's elected leaders, industry leaders, and the hardworking, talented people of our state came together at a critical time to save the industry that built the American middle class. The resurgence of the auto industry and American manufacturing shows that we can still do big things when we work together."
01.06.2015	Senator Stabenow Welcomes Gary Peters to U.S. Senate Tuesday, January 06, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement welcoming Gary Peters (D-MI) to the United States Senate: "Today is a great day in Michigan's history as my good friend-and now Senator-Gary Peters takes the oath of office. Gary is a fighter who always puts Michigan first, and I couldn't ask for a better partner in the U.S. Senate."
01.05.2015	Stabenow Statement on China’s Decision to End Illegal Restrictions on Rare Earth Elements Monday, January 05, 2015 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding China's decision to end illegal restrictions on rare earth minerals, which are used in many U.S. made-products. Since 2012, the U.S. Trade Representative has been fighting to end these restrictions at the World Trade Organization (WTO). Senator Stabenow was among the first to urge the Administration to address the problem of China's illegal export regulations through WTO action. "We've been fighting this case for years, and this is a major victory for American workers and our manufacturers," said Stabenow. "I am glad the Chinese government is finally lifting its illegal restrictions on the export of rare earth minerals. We play by the rules, so China needs to start playing by the rules and stop trying to rig the system."
12.22.2014	Senator Stabenow Nominates 52 Michigan Students to Military Academies Monday, December 22, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow announced today that she has nominated 52 Michigan students for placement at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. "I'm proud to see so many exceptional students from Michigan want to serve our country through military service," said Senator Stabenow. "Having demonstrated a strong commitment to excellence in and out of the classroom, I know that they will represent Michigan and our country well." Students seeking appointment to a service academy must first obtain the nomination of their U.S. Senator, their U.S. Representative, or the Vice President. Students nominated by Senator Stabenow's office went through a competitive application process that included interviews by community leaders. Now that the students have been nominated, they must await acceptance for admission by the academy to which they have applied. The following students have been nominated by Senator Stabenow to a service academy (by region): West Michigan: Kaylie Butt - Portage, Naval AcademyDaniel Christensen - Augusta, Air Force Academy Blake Driscol - Grand Rapids, Naval AcademyZachary Hoiles - Grand Rapids, West PointSamantha Price - Marshall, Air Force AcademyJeremy Schwartz - Grand Rapids, Air Force AcademyPeter Sinkovitz - Richland, Naval AcademyZachary Winzer - North Muskegon, Merchant Marine AcademyPeter Woudenberg - Holland, West Point Southeast Michigan: Kyle Abraham - Northville, Air Force AcademySpencer Barlow - Troy, Air Force AcademyAndrew Belanger - South Lyon, West PointRyan Brand - Novi, Air Force AcademyAlexandra Davis - Canton, West PointJoseph Dowler - Beverly Hills, Naval AcademyBenjamin Finnegan - South Lyon, Naval Academy Jacob Franchak - White Lake, Air Force AcademyBenjamin George - Wixom, Naval AcademyAndrew Greidanus - Franklin, West PointLauren Hudak -Bloomfield Hills, West PointSean Kirchner - Newport, West PointSean Krasovic - Rochester Hills, Air Force AcademyMichael Landuyt - Grosse Pointe Park, Naval AcademyAndrew Lang - Livonia, Merchant Marine AcademyDaniel Lindauer - Chelsea, Naval AcademySean McCullough - Northville, Naval AcademyJoel Moriarty - Canton, Air Force AcademyRobert Niehof - West Bloomfield, West PointChristopher Nodland - Bloomfield Hills, Air Force AcademyCasey O'Brien - Troy, Naval AcademyDominic Perrin - South Lyon, Naval AcademyConor Ryan - Redford, Naval AcademyMadeline Reynolds - Clarkston, Naval AcademyCarlie Sleeman - Pinckney, West PointJohn Solimanto - Redford , Air Force AcademyBenjamin Stanz - Canton, Air Force AcademyKohsuke Tashiro - Bloomfield Hills, Naval AcademyNicholas Tottis - West Bloomfield, Naval AcademyColin Zavislak - Royal Oak, Air Force Academy Upper Peninsula: Adam Loman - Ishpeming, Air Force AcademyJustin Waligora - Gladstone, Air Force Academy Northern Michigan: Erik Anton - Suttons Bay, Naval AcademyJared Byers - Petoskey, Naval AcademyPaige Cooley - Traverse City, Air Force AcademyJeffrey Linenger - Suttons Bay, Naval Academy Erin McDonnell - Traverse City, Naval Academy Mid-Michigan: Seth Killian - Jackson, Air Force AcademyMatthew Stamler - Jackson, Naval AcademyFlint/Saginaw/Bay Area: Ryan Comrie - Owosso, Air Force AcademyKyle Daley - Owosso, Air Force AcademyRavdeep Dhingra - Midland, West PointTrace Sheerin - Goodrich, Air Force Academy
12.19.2014	Senator Stabenow Receives National Association of Community Health Centers Award Friday, December 19, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow was presented today with the National Association of Community Health Centers' "Distinguished Community Health Champion Award" for her commitment to community health centers, which offer critical health services to families who would otherwise go without care. Sen. Stabenow received the award from the Michigan Primary Care Association during a tour of Jackson's Center for Family Health. "Many Michigan families rely on community health centers to receive basic medical services, and thanks to the great work these groups do, more patients are getting the critical health care they need," said Stabenow. Sen. Stabenow has led the effort to open and fund community health centers across Michigan and announced in September more than $8 million for 36 community health centers in the state, including Jackson's Center for Family Health. During the same month, she sent a letter to Sens. Reid and McConnell encouraging them to continue support for community health centers, which are facing funding reductions in the coming years. Both the National Association of Community Health Centers and the Michigan Primary Care Association work to help make sure families in underserved communities have access to health care. Across the country, Community Health Centers serve more than 22 million people at more than 9,000 sites, including 240 sites in Michigan.
12.17.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Statement on Announcement to Improve U.S.-Cuba Relations Wednesday, December 17, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, who participated in a February 2013, Congressional Delegation to Cuba, today issued the following statement on the Obama Administration announcement regarding the restoration of economic and diplomatic ties with Cuba following the release of American Alan Gross and others, including dozens of political prisoners. "As Chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, I traveled to Cuba with a bipartisan group of Senators. I told President Castro that building a new economic and political relationship would only be possible if he released Alan Gross and other political prisoners. President Castro got the message, and I am thrilled that Alan Gross has been reunited with his family. Alan is a real fighter and I can't thank him enough for his service to our country. "I support the policy changes President Obama announced today because they will boost agriculture, encourage manufacturing, and create jobs in America by increasing our country's ability to export goods and products, including many made or grown right here in Michigan. I also believe that these actions will serve as the basis for lasting and meaningful political reforms in Cuba that will finally bring freedom to the Cuban people."
12.17.2014	Stabenow Statement on Arrest of Owners, Employees Involved with Distributing Tainted Steroids Wednesday, December 17, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement on the arrest of two co-founders and 12 former employees of the New England Compounding Center (NECC) in Framingham, Massachusetts. In 2012, NECC was responsible for distributing contaminated steroids that resulted in more Michigan deaths than any other state. "Hundreds of people in Michigan got sick and 19 people tragically died because of the negligence of this company. It is critical that bad actors are held accountable so families can continue to trust that when they get treated for an injury or illness, they will be safe."
12.12.2014	Senate Passes Stabenow, Udall Measure to Review Health Services for Military Women Friday, December 12, 2014 The Senate today passed the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015 (NDAA), which includes a provision authored by U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Mark Udall that will review whether women in the military have access to quality health services. The Stabenow-Udall amendment to the NDAA will require the Government Accountability Office to conduct a comprehensive review of both the access to, and quality of women's health services for active servicewomen and other women, including military spouses. The review will include a specific focus on maternity care and quality measure standards. Once the review is completed, Congress will receive recommendations about how to improve health services for military women living in the United States and abroad. "No one deserves quality care more than our brave men and women in uniform," said Stabenow. "Whether it's preventive care, mental health care, or when a new baby is being welcomed into the family, women must be able to trust that military health services are able to provide for their unique needs. This measure will serve as an important first step toward making sure that the military focuses on issues women face when it comes to finding quality health services." "The women in our armed forces risk everything to keep our nation safe, and we owe them the highest quality health care our nation can provide," Udall said. "This bipartisan proposal directs the GAO to analyze the health care services available to military women in order to ensure that they are receiving the best possible services and quality control. Our military women and families deserve no less." The NDAA now heads to President Obama's desk for his signature.
12.12.2014	Stabenow, Camp, Slaughter Introduce Guarding Our Great Lakes Act Friday, December 12, 2014 Senator Debbie Stabenow and Representatives Dave Camp (R-MI) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) introduced the Guarding Our Great Lakes Act, bipartisan legislation designed to protect the Great Lakes from the threat of invasive Asian carp. In announcing the legislation, Sen. Stabenow, Rep. Camp, and Rep. Slaughter issued the following statements."The Great Lakes are part of our way of life and fuel our economy," said Sen. Stabenow. "We must stop them from being destroyed by Asian carp and other invasive species. This is an emergency, and the time has come for decisive action before it's too late. This bill will call on the Army Corps to begin work on projects that will help prevent the spread of Asian carp and require the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force to move us closer toward a long-term, permanent solution that will keep Asian carp out of our Lakes for good." "After years of study, we must begin making tangible progress to safeguard the Great Lakes ecosystem and the $7 billion economy it supports - and that is exactly what this bill would do," said Rep. Camp. "The Guarding Our Great Lakes Act would take the next necessary actions to prevent the spread of Asian carp. Focusing control efforts at Brandon Road Lock and Dam and beginning to improve the Chicago Area Waterway System are vital steps that need to be taken as we continue working to find a permanent solution." "The federal government's response to invasive species over the years has largely been reactive, not proactive, and we have paid a dear price," said Rep. Slaughter. "We have to take this problem head on, which is why I'm proud to introduce with my colleagues the Guarding Our Great Lakes Act - to stop Asian Carp before they destroy the native ecosystems of our beloved Great Lakes. I'm especially proud to introduce this legislation with my friends Congressman Dave Camp of Michigan and Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, who have been true champions on this issue. Congressman Camp, who is retiring at the end of this term, will be sorely missed for his leadership on Great Lakes and other important issues throughout his career, and I thank him for his dedication." In 2012, Sen. Stabenow and Rep. Camp secured passage of the Stop Invasive Species Act, to expedite the Great Lakes Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS) being conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers, which was supposed to formulate a plan to prevent Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. However, when the study was released earlier this year, it was clear that much more work must be done to identify a permanent solution to stop the transfer of aquatic invasive species between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River watersheds.The Guarding Our Great Lakes Act would take the intermediate steps necessary to safeguard the lakes and work towards a long-term plan through a two-pronged approach. First, it directs federal invasive species control efforts to the Brandon Road Lock and Dam in Joliet, IL, south of the Chicago Area Waterway System (CAWS). Second, it directs the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force, comprised of eleven federal agencies and chaired by the Environmental Protection Agency, to work with state and local agencies to identify and begin work on water quality and flood mitigation projects that will be necessary for any permanent solution.Additional co-sponsors of the bill include Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Carl Levin (D-MI), Congresswoman Candice Miller (R-MI) and Congressman Gary Peters (D-MI).
12.12.2014	Stabenow Statement on Pension Proposal Attached to Government Funding Bill Friday, December 12, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement regarding the pension proposal attached to the government funding bill: "A pension is a promise -- a promise that must be kept. It is urgent that Congress find a solution to the serious underfunding of Multi employee pension plans, which threaten the financial security of retirees. The longer we wait to solve this problem, the worse it will get. "However, I have very grave concerns about the proposal that was sent over by the House of Representatives. Instead of attaching this proposal to the Appropriations bill, Congress should work through pension reform in a careful, thoughtful way to build consensus and provide long term protection for the pensions that hardworking Americans have earned over the course of their lives."
12.10.2014	Stabenow Statement on Michigan State University Decision to Honor George Will at Commencement Wednesday, December 10, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement in regard to Michigan State University's (MSU) decision to select George Will as one of the University's December 2014 Commencement Speakers and to present him with an honorary doctorate: "As a Michigan State alumna, I am deeply disappointed that George Will is being honored this weekend. His statements on sexual assault are inaccurate, offensive, and don't represent the values of our state or MSU. I urge the University to continue their efforts to combat campus sexual assault, including the recent convening of the University Task Force on Sexual Assault and Relationship Violence."
12.09.2014	Stabenow Statement on Senate Intelligence Committee Report Detailing the CIA’s Use of Torture Tuesday, December 09, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement in response to the release of a Senate Intelligence Committee report detailing the Central Intelligence Agency's illegal use of torture and other extreme interrogation, rendition, and detention practices following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks: "The revelations contained in this report are truly horrifying, and I appreciate my colleagues' work to make sure the American people finally know the truth. Torturing people not only violates our laws, it violates our country's most basic values. This dark period in our history and the grave errors in judgment made by key leaders in our government must never be repeated." Click here to view the full Senate Intelligence Committee Report online.
12.03.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Convenes U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee Hearing on Water Quality Wednesday, December 03, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today examined different ways farmers and ranchers can help protect water quality in the Great Lakes as part of a hearing of the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee. "The Great Lakes are essential to Michigan's economy and our way of life, so addressing threats to the quality of these waters is critically important," said Stabenow. "This hearing helped demonstrate that farmers are a significant part of the solution in responding to these threats through conservation initiatives, which was a major focus of the 2014 Farm Bill. Sen. Stabenow's hearing, Farmers and Fresh Water: Voluntary Conservation to Protect our Land and Waters, is part of a larger effort to find solutions to water quality issues across the country. Those testifying include Michael Collins, Mayor of Toledo. Earlier this year, a toxic algae bloom was discovered in Lake Erie that prevented communities in the Greater Toledo area and Southeast Michigan from drinking or using their tap water. Sen. Stabenow is Vice Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force and author of the 2014 Farm Bill, which made the most significant investments in our nation's land and water conservation in decades. She played a key role in establishing the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in 2010 and has strongly advocated to fund this Initiative. Just this fall, after decades of efforts, two toxic sites in Michigan were given a clean bill of health as a result of Great Lakes Restoration funding.
12.02.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Applauds Investment to Bring Local Food to Michigan Schools Tuesday, December 02, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement to award two Michigan schools with funding to implement innovative projects that will bring locally grown food to school cafeterias. This funding comes through USDA's Farm to School Program, which helps schools source healthy school foods like fruits, vegetables, meat and dairy. The Farm to School Program also educates students about how food grows through school garden programs and farm visits. Sen. Stabenow authored the 2014 Farm Bill, which was signed into law by President Obama earlier this year and significantly expands support for Michigan farmers by creating new opportunities to sell locally grown and organic products. "Michigan sets the national standard when it comes to successfully feeding healthy meals to children," said Stabenow. "As I visit Michigan schools with local farm to table programs, I continue to be impressed to see students enjoying broccoli and pineapple from salad bars, while learning about how their food is grown. Farm to school programs give needed support to Michigan farmers, while educating and encouraging students to eat healthy. Whether it's teachers, students, parents or farmers, everybody wins when local food makes it to cafeterias close to where it has been grown and produced." USDA's Farm to School Grants help schools respond to the growing demand for locally sourced foods and increase market opportunities for producers and food businesses, including food processors, manufacturers, and distributors. These grants will also be used to support agriculture and nutrition education efforts such as school gardens, field trips to local farms, and cooking classes across the country. Waterford School District and Detroit Public Schools will each receive a Farm to School Grant to implement two new programs. Waterford School District will use their funding to expand training for food service staff, educate district and community leaders about the importance of farm to school, and execute a farm to school plan with short-term and long-term goals. John Silveri, Superintendent of Waterford School District: "We're grateful for this support from the USDA to help us build on the Farm to School foundation we have already laid. This will help our students learn lifelong lessons about nutrition and sustainable food sources, and it will support farmers and others in the agricultural field in the State of Michigan." Detroit Public Schools will implement a training program to develop high tunnel growing and encourage general farm management. High tunnels, commonly called hoop houses, can be beneficial for farm to school programs because they protect fruits and vegetables from severe weather and can extend the growing season. Detroit Public Schools have been working with food distributors, farmers and other community leaders to serve high quality meals to approximately 50,000 school children every day. Betti Wiggins, Executive Director of Detroit Public Schools, Office of School Nutrition: "This grant will help us continue our work to improve access to healthy foods for our students and community."
11.26.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Encourages Dairy Farmers to Enroll in New Farm Bill Program Before Next Week’s Deadline Risk Management Program Protects Producers from Sudden Economic Challenges Wednesday, November 26, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, encouraged Michigan dairy farmers to register by Dec. 5 for a new dairy risk management program made possible by the 2014 Farm Bill. The program gives Michigan farmers the certainty and tools they need to continue supplying milk products to consumers in Michigan and across the country. The enrollment period for the new dairy Margin Protection Program (MPP), which is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, began on Sept. 2 and will end on Dec. 5. The program offers participating farmers assistance if milk prices fall below profitable margins due to unexpected circumstances beyond their control. Dairy is one of Michigan's largest agricultural commodities, and exports of Michigan dairy products have more than doubled over the last ten years. The MPP was authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Sen. Stabenow and signed into law in Michigan earlier this year. Farmers can register for the MPP at their local Farm Service Agency Office. "We cannot afford to have our Michigan dairy farmers go bankrupt when there are sudden market swings, which is why we put together this new program," said Stabenow. "I strongly encourage dairy producers in Michigan and nationwide to register by December 5 in-person or using the new tool developed by Michigan State University. Michigan families need a reliable supply of dairy products at the grocery store, and that means we need to make sure Michigan's farmers can keep producing some of the very best dairy products in the United States." Ken Nobis, President, Michigan Milk Producers Association: "The Margin Protection Program included in the 2014 Farm Bill is a much needed replacement of an outdated mechanism that failed to address the basic concept of a safety net in today's global economy. I join Senator Stabenow in encouraging Michigan's dairy farmers to move quickly to take advantage of this new resource." A new, innovative web tool developed in part by Michigan State University was launched in conjunction with MPP to help Michigan dairy producers enroll in the program and make decisions based on their own unique needs and operations. The web tool, available at www.fsa.usda.gov/mpptool, provides a series of interactive features allowing producers to review historical data as well as future projections to make decisions that make the most sense for them.
11.20.2014	Stabenow Statement on Immigration Reform Thursday, November 20, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement regarding President Obama's executive action on immigration policy: "Our nation's broken immigration system hurts families, workers, businesses, and our farmers each and every day. We cannot afford to wait another 511 days to begin addressing this urgent problem, which is why the refusal of House Republicans to do anything to deal with our immigration issues left the President with no choice but to act using his own clear authority. "It's not too late for Speaker Boehner to allow the House of Representatives to vote on and pass the bipartisan Senate immigration reform plan, and I continue to urge him to do so immediately."
11.20.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Initiative to Expand Quality Health Care, Train New Doctors in Michigan Thursday, November 20, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Central Michigan University College of Medicine to help connect people in rural areas with quality health care. The $297,671 grant will help train doctors in rural clinics and hospitals across the state. The funding, which comes through the USDA's Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program, was authorized by Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Families in Michigan deserve access to quality health care services," said Stabenow. "It's critical that doctors are available to serve our rural communities now and in the future, and today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to highly-trained specialists no matter what their zip code is." Central Michigan University's College of Medicine will use the funding to train 104 medical students in rural clinics and hospitals. The goal of the project is to encourage students to work in rural communities in order to increase the number of health care providers available in these areas. Today's funding comes as part of a larger USDA announcement, which allocated $10 million in grants to improve access to health care and treat chronic illnesses like diabetes, heart disease, and high blood pressure, conditions that are higher in rural areas. Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program.
11.20.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Initiative to Expand Quality Health Care in Northern Michigan and the UP Thursday, November 20, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Munson Medical Center to help connect people in rural areas with quality health care. The $217,629 grant will benefit 27 counties in Northern Michigan and the Upper Peninsula. The funding, which comes through the USDA's Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program, was authorized by Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Families in Northern Michigan and the UP deserve access to quality health care services," said Stabenow. "With telehealth, patients are able to get important checkups and medical care even though the doctor is hundreds of miles away, thanks to state-of-the-art equipment and technology. Today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to specialists no matter what their zip code is." Munson Medical Center's Hematology, Education, and Access: Linking to Specialists (HEALS) telemedicine application will help connect patients in remote areas to specialty care teleconsultants, care coordination, and patient education through videoconferencing. The project will also provide education for clinicians and medical students throughout the region. Today's funding comes as part of a larger USDA announcement, which allocated $10 million in grants to improve access to health care and treat chronic illnesses like diabetes, heart disease, and high blood pressure, conditions that are higher in rural areas. Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program.
11.20.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Initiative to Expand Quality Health Care in Saginaw, Shiawassee Counties Thursday, November 20, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Memorial Hospital in Owosso to help connect people in rural areas with quality health care. The $110,000 grant will be used to provide telemedicine between the hospital and five primary and specialty care office sites in Saginaw and Shiawassee Counties. The funding, which comes through the USDA's Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program, was authorized by Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill. "Families in Saginaw and Shiawassee Counties deserve access to quality health care services," said Stabenow. "With telehealth, patients are able to get important checkups and medical care even though the doctor is hundreds of miles away, thanks to state-of-the-art equipment and technology. Today's announcement will help make sure patients have access to specialists no matter what their zip code is." The funding will help medical professionals at Memorial Hospital serve patients at five rural clinic sites by enabling the hospital and clinics to share digital radiology images and records. Today's funding comes as part of a larger USDA announcement, which allocated $10 million in grants to improve access to health care and treat chronic illnesses like diabetes, heart disease, and high blood pressure, conditions that are higher in rural areas. Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program.
11.20.2014	New, State-of-the-art Veterans Facility Opens in West Michigan Thursday, November 20, 2014 Veterans now have a new, state-of-the-art facility in West Michigan. U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow recently participated in the grand opening and ribbon cutting ceremony for the Wyoming Health Care Center. The new 97,000 square-foot VA health care center replaced the smaller Grand Rapids VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic in order to meet the growing needs of West Michigan veterans. Senator Stabenow was a key figure in pushing for the completion of this new facility.
11.18.2014	Stabenow Co-Leads Group of 11 Women Senators Urging the Administration to Make Combating Heart Disease a Priority Tuesday, November 18, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, along with 11 other women Senators, urged the Administration to prioritize combating heart disease, which is the number one killer of women in Michigan. In a series of letters to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, NIH Director Francis Collins, and CDC Director Tom Frieden, the bipartisan group of women Senators explained that women's heart disease continues to be under-researched, frequently misdiagnosed, and often left untreated. This is in part because heart distress is more difficult to diagnose in women than men. "Unfortunately, a majority of women and even some doctors are unfamiliar with the symptoms, diagnoses, and dangers of heart disease in women," said Stabenow. "When we help educate women and their doctors, create more opportunities for women to get screenings, and get more money for research, we can fight this disease and save lives." Sen. Stabenow has long advocated for better research, funding, and education around women's heart disease. In 2012, Sen. Stabenow helped pass a provision based on her bipartisan bill, the HEART (Heart Disease Education, Research and Analysis, and Treatment) for Women Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in 2012. Earlier this year, Sen. Stabenow led a group of 14 women Senators asking the Food and Drug Administration to take concrete actions to increase the number of women and minorities in clinical trials, which will help make treatments more effective and save lives. One out of three women die of heart disease, and Michigan is the 8th worst state in the country for deaths from this preventable and treatable disease.
11.17.2014	Stabenow Applauds Senate Passage of Bipartisan Child Care Legislation Monday, November 17, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today voted with a bipartisan group of 88 Senators to pass a bill that will strengthen health and safety protections and improve the quality of care for child care assistance programs that are available to families. This bill will also require additional training and education for caretakers participating in these programs. Sen. Stabenow has been a long-time supporter of the Child Care and Development Block Grant program and called upon lawmakers to support the program earlier this year. "Today's vote is great news for families across the country," said Stabenow. "Families who are trying to juggle jobs and child care need to know their children are getting safe, healthy, and nurturing child care. By strengthening safety standards and training for child care workers, we are making sure children are getting the best possible start in life."
11.17.2014	Stabenow, Benishek, Peters Introduce Bill to Stop $100 Million Increase in Electric Bills for Upper Peninsula Families, Small Businesses Monday, November 17, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Congressman Dan Benishek (MI-1), and Congressman Gary Peters (MI-14) today introduced legislation that would require additional oversight by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), allowing the agency to stop a pending $100 million annual electric rate increase for families and businesses in the Upper Peninsula. This legislation follows a recent regulatory decision made by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) that would force consumers in the Upper Peninsula to pay for 99 percent of the Presque Isle Power Plant's operating costs. This decision by NERC upended an earlier FERC finding that UP customers should be responsible for 14 percent of the power plant's operating costs. FERC shares oversight responsibilities and has a mandate to consider utility cost allocation issues. The POWER Act would require FERC to review, analyze, and disapprove any NERC decision that resulted in unjust and unreasonable rate increases on families and businesses. This new authority would provide FERC a direct path to overturn unfair cost shifts resulting from NERC actions. "Seniors, small businesses, and families in the UP should not be forced to pay for unjust and unreasonable rate increases, while the benefits of this plant continue to be shared with communities in other states," said Stabenow. "This bill will help keep utility costs from increasing for Michigan families and seniors and keep the doors of small businesses open by creating a new pathway to make sure everyone is paying their fair share. I don't expect my neighbor to pay my electric bill each month. No one should be forced to pay for unjust utility costs." "Residents of the Upper Peninsula-from families to seniors to schools and small businesses-can't be expected to shoulder the burden of unfair rate increases," said Rep. Benishek. "These rate increases are unacceptable and I am committed to finding a solution that will ensure that residents of the Upper Peninsula are not forced to choose between keeping the lights on and putting food on their table this winter." "With winter just around the corner, it is critical that Michigan families have access to reliable and affordable electricity in every part of the state," said Rep. Gary Peters. "This bipartisan bill will help ensure that utility costs are distributed in a fair and equitable way." Last month, Sen. Stabenow and Rep. Benishek called for a moratorium on NERC's decision and asked FERC to consider the Michigan Public Service Commission's complaint that the resulting rate increases for people in the UP are not just and reasonable. Earlier this week, FERC announced it would delay the UP rate increases that were previously expected to begin on December 1 in order to further investigate the problem.
11.10.2014	Stabenow Statement on Announcement to Award John Dingell With Nation’s Highest Civilian Honor Monday, November 10, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement congratulating Congressman John D. Dingell on being awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Obama: "This prestigious honor is a fitting tribute to John Dingell's lifetime of public service standing up for Michigan families. Known as America's watchdog, his accomplishments have impacted so many of our country's landmark laws including the Civil Rights Act, Endangered Species Act, Clean Air Act and health care reform. His service will have a positive impact on Americans for generations to come."
11.03.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Oscoda to Buy New Police Equipment Monday, November 03, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Oscoda Township Police Department. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $21,000 grant will be used to help the community purchase camera systems for six patrol vehicles. "Our first responders provide invaluable services to communities in Iosco County and throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
10.24.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Applauds USDA Investment in Michigan State University Research Programs Friday, October 24, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture's announcement of $381,847 to be invested in Michigan State University pest management programs. This funding comes through the National Institute of Food and Agriculture's Crop Protection and Pest Management program, which supports projects that address high priority pest management challenges though coordinated efforts with state and regional partners. "I'm extremely proud of Michigan State's leadership when it comes to agricultural research," said Stabenow, "Better pest management means more efficient crop production for farmers, and safer food for our families." Michigan State University will receive two awards under the Crop Protection and Pest Management Program. These funds will support projects to provide training and educational opportunities for Michigan's pest managers and develop environmentally friendly ways to combat pests in asparagus production systems.
10.20.2014	Stabenow, Levin Applaud Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Funding for Western Lake Erie Basin Monday, October 20, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today applauded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement to allocate $807,000 to the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development to fight harmful algae blooms in the Great Lakes. This funding, which is part of a larger national investment to protect the Western Lake Erie Basin, will be used to expand conservation assistance incentives for farmers, improve how scientists measure phosphorus levels in Lake Erie, and help Great Lakes monitoring and forecasting capabilities to ensure our drinking water is safe. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This funding will support Michigan farmers and conservation leaders who are working together to protect Lake Erie and ensure our families have safe, reliable drinking water. Today's announcement highlights the important role federal support plays in making sure future water contamination crises are prevented." "Since my days on the Detroit City Council, where we passed some of the nation's first restrictions on phosphorus in detergents, phosphorus-fed algae blooms have been a problem for the Great Lakes," said Levin. "This funding will help strengthen efforts from agriculture, science and local communities to combat this problem." Sens. Stabenow and Levin led the effort to pass the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative announcement follows the July 2014 discovery of a toxic algae bloom in Lake Erie that prevented communities in Southeast Michigan from drinking or using their tap water.
10.17.2014	Stabenow, Levin Call for a Delay of Increase in Electric Bills for Upper Peninsula Families, Small Businesses Friday, October 17, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today urged the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to delay electric rate increases for families and businesses in the Upper Peninsula and act on the complaint filed by the Michigan Public Service Commission about these unjust and unreasonable rate hikes. The Upper Peninsula would have to pay nearly $100 million annually to operate the Presque Isle Power Plant, if the proposed electric rate increases are approved by FERC. This increase is scheduled to take place after December 1 and is the result of a regulatory decision made by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) to force consumers in the Upper Peninsula to pay for 99 percent of the Presque Isle Power Plant's operating costs. This decision by NERC upended an earlier federal finding that UP customers should be responsible for just 14 percent of the power plant's operating costs. FERC shares oversight responsibilities and has a mandate to consider utility cost allocation issues. The Senators called for a moratorium on this decision while the agency considers the Michigan Public Service Commission's complaint that these rate increases are not just and reasonable. The letter also encourages the agency to work with local stakeholders on a long-term solution to the UP's power issues. "It is totally unacceptable that seniors, small businesses, and families across the UP are forced to pay for unjust and unreasonable rate increases, while the benefits of this plant are being shared with communities in other states," said Stabenow. "Many families in the UP already struggle with high utility expenses and shouldn't have to decide between keeping the lights on and putting food on the table." "Federal law requires that rate increases be reasonable and justifiable, and this proposed increase is neither," Levin said. "FERC should act promptly on Michigan's request to protect Upper Peninsula consumers and businesses from the damage this unjustified rate hike would cause." The letter reads in part: "Residents and businesses in the region already pay extremely high energy costs because of the region's significant power transmission and supply challenges. When coupled with the Upper Peninsula's high unemployment, growing number of retirees, and an average median household income of only $39,400 - more than $13,000 lower than the national median - we are deeply concerned about the negative impact that these dramatic rate increases will have on seniors, the unemployed, small businesses, and others. Reports indicate that small businesses could be forced to shoulder annual increases of several hundred thousand dollars, which would create an unreasonable drag on the region's economy." The full text of the letter can be found below: October 17, 2014 The Honorable Cheryl A. LaFleurChairwomanFederal Energy Regulatory Commission888 First Street, N.E.Washington, DC 204246 Dear Chairwoman LaFleur: We are writing to express our serious concerns about the unjust and unreasonable electric rate increases in Michigan's Upper Peninsula that will take effect after December 1. These drastic increases in the cost allocations are expected to cost nearly $100 million as a result of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation's approval of a plan to arbitrarily split off Michigan's Upper Peninsula as a new local balancing authority. Residents and businesses in the region already pay extremely high energy costs because of the region's significant power transmission and supply challenges. When coupled with the Upper Peninsula's high unemployment, growing number of retirees, and an average median household income of only $39,400 - more than $13,000 lower than the national median - we are deeply concerned about the negative impact that these dramatic rate increases will have on seniors, the unemployed, small businesses, and others. Reports indicate that small businesses could be forced to shoulder annual increases of several hundred thousand dollars, which would create an unreasonable drag on the region's economy. The Michigan Public Service Commission and others have filed complaints with the FERC about this new cost allocation structure, specifically expressing concerns about the devastating effect it will have on the local economy and families. According to the Michigan Public Service Commission, splitting off a new local balancing authority for the Upper Peninsula does not improve the reliability of electric service in either Wisconsin or Michigan. Instead, the split will unfairly shift 99 percent of the costs of operating the Presque Isle Power Plant solely onto consumers in the Upper Peninsula despite some of the broader benefits that other areas receive from the plant's operations. This would be a drastic increase from the Midcontinent Independent System Operator's previous cost allocation formula for keeping the Presque Isle power plant operational to ensure the reliability of the power system. Stakeholders in the region have been engaged in discussions regarding long-term energy options to address the area's future power needs. As the Michigan Public Service Commission has noted, allowing the new cost allocation system to proceed could discourage investment in more efficient long-term solutions for the region. We urge you to delay these rate increases while you give serious consideration to the Michigan Public Service Commission's complaint that these cost increases are neither just nor reasonable. We also encourage the FERC to work closely with residents, local businesses, state and local governments, and other stakeholders to find long-term solutions to the Upper Peninsula's future power issues. Sincerely,
10.10.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Michigan Sea Grant Funding to Help Protect Great Lakes Communities Friday, October 10, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced $471,161 for the Michigan Sea Grant program to secure projects that help build and foster resilient coastal Great Lakes communities. This funding is a portion of a $15.9 million grant announced though the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Sea Grant program. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This grant will help support collaborative research between the University of Michigan and Michigan State University that will help preserve our Lakes and coastlines for generations to come." "Michigan is defined by the Great Lakes, and these waters not only support jobs and our economy but also provide unparalleled recreational opportunities for millions," Levin said. "The projects announced today will help ensure that Michigan's coastal communities have the resources they need to meet our responsibilities as stewards of the Great Lakes." Michigan's NOAA funding will be matched with $254,982 from other sources to carry out the projects, which aim to develop tools to support harbors and marinas, help communities protect water quality, address algae problems in Saginaw Bay, and help increase public safety along the Great Lakes shorelines. Among the projects receiving funding is the "Using an Integrated Assessment Process to address the Sustainability of Small Harbors," which will help develop a new training module to help marinas and harbors plan for severe storms, fluctuating water levels, and other coastal hazards. A complete list of Sea Grant projects can be found here, and detailed descriptions can be found here. Michigan Sea Grant, a collaborative program of the University of Michigan and Michigan State University, is part of the NOAA-National Sea Grant program, which helps provide student support and research at 33 university-based programs across the country. The Sea Grant program funds scientific research, education, training and extension projects designed to foster science-based decisions about the use and conservation of Great Lakes resources.
10.07.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement on Asian Carp eDNA Found in the Kalamazoo River Tuesday, October 07, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement regarding the Asian carp eDNA that was recently found in the Kalamazoo River: "I am extremely concerned that Asian carp eDNA was found in any part of the Great Lakes and its tributaries. The Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service need to take immediate steps and conduct further testing to ensure that Asian carp have not spread to the Kalamazoo River. Time is running out to stop Asian carp from devastating our Great Lakes and the thousands of jobs that depend on them. Today's news is another reason why we need to permanently close the barrier between the Chicago Waterway System and the Great Lakes."
10.02.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Mid-Michigan Agriculture Thursday, October 02, 2014 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced critical support for Mid-Michigan farmers and producers across the state. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award nearly $2 million to support 30 Michigan specialty crop projects throughout the state, which is a direct result of the 2014 Farm Bill's significant investment in locally grown food. These projects include support for Michigan State University, which is conducting innovative research to help fruit and vegetable growers, and Allen Street Neighborhood Center to promote fruits and vegetables in the region. Projects will also support apple, potato, floriculture, and nursery growers. For a complete list of Michigan projects, please visit USDA's website here. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "One of my top priorities was making sure the 2014 Farm Bill had major support for the fruits and vegetables we grow in Michigan, which gives families better access to local food options and supports our economy. Today's announcement is great news for Michigan farmers who will have additional tools and resources to help promote and sell their products to consumers, protect their crops from pests and disease, and develop better production practices." In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill in history that supported so-called "specialty crops" - fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products, and floriculture. Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on commodity crops but had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year, strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food hubs. Michigan produces a wider diversity of crops than any state but California, including many fruits and vegetables. Michigan is the national leader in the production of over 18 types of crops, and Michigan specialty crop production has increased 33 percent in the last decade. Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.
10.02.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Genesee, Great Lakes Bay, and Thumb-Area Farmers Thursday, October 02, 2014 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced critical support for Genesee, Great Lakes Bay, and Thumb-area farmers, and producers across the state. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award nearly $2 million to support 30 Michigan specialty crop projects throughout the state, which is a direct result of the 2014 Farm Bill's significant investment in locally grown food. These projects include support for bean growers throughout the region. For a complete list of Michigan projects, please visit USDA's website here. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "One of my top priorities was making sure the 2014 Farm Bill had major support for the fruits and vegetables we grow in Michigan, which gives families better access to local food options and supports our economy. Today's announcement is great news for Michigan farmers who will have additional tools and resources to help promote and sell their products to consumers, protect their crops from pests and disease, and develop better production practices." In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill in history that supported so-called "specialty crops" - fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products, and floriculture. Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on commodity crops but had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year, strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food hubs. Michigan produces a wider diversity of crops than any state but California, including many fruits and vegetables. Michigan is the national leader in the production of over 18 types of crops, and Michigan specialty crop production has increased 33 percent in the last decade. Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.
10.02.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Northern Michigan Agriculture Thursday, October 02, 2014 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced critical support for Northern Michigan farmers and producers across the state. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award nearly $2 million to support 30 Michigan specialty crop projects throughout the state, which is a direct result of the 2014 Farm Bill's significant investment in locally grown food. These projects include support for cherry, apple, maple syrup, and Christmas tree growers throughout the region as well as support for the Michigan Grape and Wine Industry Council. For a complete list of Michigan projects, please visit USDA's website here. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "One of my top priorities was making sure the 2014 Farm Bill had major support for the fruits and vegetables we grow in Michigan, which gives families better access to local food options and supports our economy. Today's announcement is great news for Michigan farmers who will have additional tools and resources to help promote and sell their products to consumers, protect their crops from pests and disease, and develop better production practices." In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill in history that supported so-called "specialty crops" - fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products, and floriculture. Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on commodity crops but had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year, strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food hubs. Michigan produces a wider diversity of crops than any state but California, including many fruits and vegetables. Michigan is the national leader in the production of over 18 types of crops, and Michigan specialty crop production has increased 33 percent in the last decade. Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.
10.02.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Southeast Michigan Agriculture Thursday, October 02, 2014 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced critical support for Southeast Michigan farmers and producers across the state. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award nearly $2 million to support 30 Michigan specialty crop projects throughout the state, which is a direct result of the 2014 Farm Bill's significant investment in locally grown food. These projects include support for apple, floriculture, and nursery growers throughout the region. For a complete list of Michigan projects, please visit USDA's website here. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "One of my top priorities was making sure the 2014 Farm Bill had major support for the fruits and vegetables we grow in Michigan, which gives families better access to local food options and supports our economy. Today's announcement is great news for Michigan farmers who will have additional tools and resources to help promote and sell their products to consumers, protect their crops from pests and disease, and develop better production practices." In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill in history that supported so-called "specialty crops" - fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products, and floriculture. Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on commodity crops but had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year, strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food hubs. Michigan produces a wider diversity of crops than any state but California, including many fruits and vegetables. Michigan is the national leader in the production of over 18 types of crops, and Michigan specialty crop production has increased 33 percent in the last decade. Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.
10.02.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for West Michigan Agriculture Thursday, October 02, 2014 Grand Rapids - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced critical support for West Michigan farmers and producers across the state. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award nearly $2 million to support 30 Michigan specialty crop projects throughout the state, which is a direct result of the 2014 Farm Bill's significant investment in locally grown food. These projects include support for apple, asparagus, blueberry, grape, cherry, Christmas tree, potato, floriculture, and nursery growers throughout the region. For a complete list of Michigan projects, please visit USDA's website here. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "One of my top priorities was making sure the 2014 Farm Bill had major support for the fruits and vegetables we grow in Michigan, which gives families better access to local food options and supports our economy. Today's announcement is great news for Michigan farmers who will have additional tools and resources to help promote and sell their products to consumers, protect their crops from pests and disease, and develop better production practices." In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill in history that supported so-called "specialty crops" - fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products, and floriculture. Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on commodity crops but had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year, strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food hubs. Michigan produces a wider diversity of crops than any state but California, including many fruits and vegetables. Michigan is the national leader in the production of over 18 types of crops, and Michigan specialty crop production has increased 33 percent in the last decade. Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.
10.02.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Upper Peninsula Farmers Thursday, October 02, 2014 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced critical support for Upper Peninsula farmers and producers across the state. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will award nearly $2 million to support 30 Michigan specialty crop projects throughout the state, which is a direct result of the 2014 Farm Bill's significant investment in locally grown food. These projects include support for potato growers throughout the region. For a complete list of Michigan projects, please visit USDA's website here. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "One of my top priorities was making sure the 2014 Farm Bill had major support for the fruits and vegetables we grow in Michigan, which gives families better access to local food options and supports our economy. Today's announcement is great news for Michigan farmers who will have additional tools and resources to help promote and sell their products to consumers, protect their crops from pests and disease, and develop better production practices." In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill in history that supported so-called "specialty crops" - fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products, and floriculture. Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on commodity crops but had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year, strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food hubs. Michigan produces a wider diversity of crops than any state but California, including many fruits and vegetables. Michigan is the national leader in the production of over 18 types of crops, and Michigan specialty crop production has increased 33 percent in the last decade. Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.
10.01.2014	Stabenow Leads Bipartisan Group of 66 Senators Urging Support for Community Health Centers Senators warn that 70 percent cut in funding will make it harder for Michigan families to get access to health care Wednesday, October 01, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, along with 65 other Senators, urged Senate leaders to support community health centers, which are set to have their funding cut by nearly 70 percent next September. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) the bipartisan group of 66 Senators explained that this financial cliff will likely result in site closures and devastating staff layoffs, preventing millions of people in high-need communities from access to cost-effective, primary care services. Sen. Stabenow is co-chair of the Senate Community Health Centers Caucus. "Many families in Michigan rely on community health centers for basic medical services," said Stabenow. "Without these centers, many patients would go without critical health care or be forced to turn to emergency rooms, which are more expensive and not designed to meet primary health care needs. There is clearly a strong bipartisan agreement that we need to support community health centers, and I intend to find a way to put aside party differences to get this done." Health centers serve as the health care home for nearly 600,000 Michigan residents in 200 clinics across the state. The letter reads in part: "[Operational funding] reductions could result in the closure of health center sites, layoffs of providers and staff, and most importantly, a loss of access to primary and preventive care for millions of patients who often have no other place to turn. The effect of this reduction would be felt beyond health centers themselves, with a more expensive and less efficient health care system along with a loss of access to care and economic vitality in thousands of communities across the country." Sens. Roy Blunt (R-MO), Tom Carper (D-DE), and John Boozman (R-AR) co-led the letter. The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader U.S. Senate S-221 US Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Mitch McConnellMinority LeaderU.S. SenateS-230 US CapitolWashington, DC 20510 Dear Leader Reid and Leader McConnell, We are writing to share our support for community health centers and to bring to your attention an issue that could threaten the access to the cost-effective primary and preventive care they provide. We respectfully request your continued support of the Health Centers program to ensure our local health centers can continue delivering access to primary and preventive health care services beyond Fiscal Year (FY) 2015. Health Centers have a long history of bipartisan support. Since the first community health centers were founded nearly fifty years ago, health centers have become the nation's largest primary care network, collectively serving more than 22 million patients in more than 9,000 communities in every state and territory. Health centers are locally-governed small businesses providing a comprehensive range of primary care services while remaining responsive to community needs. Health centers employ more than 150,000 people, and generate an economic impact in the billions in some of the nation's most economically deprived communities. Studies have shown health centers generate savings to the health care system on the order of $24 billion annually, primarily through reductions in unnecessary Emergency Department (ED) visits and hospitalizations. Health Centers represent one of the most prudent investments we can make within our health care system. However, after FY 2015, Health Centers are facing reductions of between sixty and seventy percent to their operational funding. The reductions could result in the closure of health center sites, layoffs of providers and staff, and most importantly, a loss of access to primary and preventive care for millions of patients who often have no other place to turn. The effect of this reduction would be felt beyond health centers themselves, with a more expensive and less efficient health care system along with a loss of access to care and economic vitality in thousands of communities across the country. We know the current budgetary constraints and that difficult choices must be made in this fiscal climate. However, we earnestly hope that we will work together in a bipartisan way to responsibly address this situation in a way that ensures continued sustainability and viability of community health centers across America. Thank you very much for your consideration of our thoughts and for your steadfast support to ensure community health centers continue to play vital roles in our communities in the future. Sincerely,
09.30.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces More than $226,000 to Support Northern Michigan Farmers Markets and Local Food Initiatives Tuesday, September 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $226,068 in support for four Northern Michigan farmers markets and local food initiatives. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program, which helps expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables," said Stabenow. "Buying local is a win for our economy, a win for Michigan agriculture and a win for consumers who will have better access to local food choices." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year. The new Farmers Market And Local Food Promotion Program helps improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: The City of Harrison will receive $53,310 to operate and increase consumer and farmer participation in a new downtown indoor-and-outdoor farmers market, retail incubator, and community kitchen. Grow Benzie in Benzonia will receive $47,758 for advertising and promotion of its farmers' market and incubator kitchen. Goodwill Industries of Northern Michigan will receive $100,000 to assist in the expansion of their Farm to Freezer aggregation and distribution program. Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians will receive $25,000 to create a Tribally Supported Agriculture Network or sell their crops at the local farmers' markets. For more information, please visit http://www.ams.usda.gov/FMPP.
09.30.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Nearly $150,000 to Support Southeast Michigan Farmers Markets and Local Food Initiatives Tuesday, September 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $149,794 in support for three Southeast Michigan farmers markets and local food initiatives. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program, which helps expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables," said Stabenow. "Buying local is a win for our economy, a win for Michigan agriculture and a win for consumers who will have better access to local food choices." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year. The new Farmers Market And Local Food Promotion Program helps improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Fair Food Network will receive $100,000 to develop new products; improve access to local food for communities; and support entrepreneurship through the Fair Food Network's Fair Food Fund by providing capital to food businesses to help them grow and create jobs. The City of Farmington Hills will receive $25,000 to develop a comprehensive feasibility study to revitalize the Grand River Corridor by distributing local, healthy food in a renovated historic building near the area's biggest employer, the Botsford Hospital. Growing Hope in Ypsilanti will receive $24,794 to develop business plans and partnership/operational agreements to increase distribution to corner stores; mobile markets, farm stands, and Community Supported Agriculture (CSA)-style boxes; an incubator and processing kitchen; and expanded aggregation/packing facilities. CSAs allow people to buy into a community farm in return for fruit, vegetables and other agricultural products throughout the growing season. For more information, please visit http://www.ams.usda.gov/FMPP.
09.30.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces More than $190,000 for Two Ingham County Farmers Markets Tuesday, September 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $190,038 in support for the Michigan Farmers Market Association in East Lansing and Allen Neighborhood Group in Lansing. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program, which helps expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables," said Stabenow. "Buying local is a win for our economy, a win for Michigan agriculture and a win for consumers who will have better access to local food choices." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year. The new Farmers Market And Local Food Promotion Program helps improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: The Michigan Farmers Market Association in East Lansing will receive $99,660 to develop a farmers market manager mentorship program, expand the Market Management Certificate Program, which formally recognizes market managers as professionally trained managers, and invest in long-term strategic planning and professional development. Allen Neighborhood Group in Lansing will receive $90,378 to expand and promote its Winter Farmers Market, Hunter Park Garden-House Community Supported Agriculture, and Allen Market Place Kitchen projects. Community Supported Agriculture allows people to buy into a community farm in return for fruit, vegetables and other agricultural products throughout the growing season. Senator Stabenow visited the Allen Neighborhood market in August 2013. For more information, please visit http://www.ams.usda.gov/FMPP.
09.30.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for the Chesaning Farmers Market, Tuscola County Food Hub Tuesday, September 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $26,656 in support for the Chesaning "Market off Broad" and Tuscola County Economic Development Corporation in Caro. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program, which helps expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables," said Stabenow. "Buying local is a win for our economy, a win for Michigan agriculture and a win for consumers who will have better access to local food choices." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year. The new Farmers Market And Local Food Promotion Program helps improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Broad Street Events, Inc. in Chesaning will receive $20,582 to promote the new Chesaning "Market off Broad" to vendors and customers. Tuscola County Economic Development Corporation in Caro will receive $6,074 to complete a market, production, and infrastructure analysis to identify and implement strategies to create a food hub. For mor e information, please visit http://www.ams.usda.gov/FMPP.
09.29.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces More than $183,000 to Support Local Food Initiatives in West Michigan Monday, September 29, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced $183,300 in support for Sprout Urban Farm in Battle Creek and Local First Educational Foundation in Grand Rapids. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program, which helps expand access to farmers markets and food hubs and develop new opportunities for farmers to sell locally. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Local food hubs and farmers markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers, which makes it easier to buy Michigan-grown fruits and vegetables," said Stabenow. "Buying local is a win for our economy, a win for Michigan agriculture and a win for consumers who will have better access to local food choices." Support for the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program was greatly expanded in the 2014 Farm Bill, which was authored by Senator Stabenow and signed into law by President Obama in Michigan earlier this year. The new Farmers Market And Local Food Promotion Program helps improve and expand farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs, agri-tourism activities, and other direct producer-to-consumer marketing opportunities. Project details below: Sprout Urban Farm in Battle Creek will receive $89,152 to increase Sprout Food Hub sales to institutions and the public by establishing a market-stand and packaging facility on its farm site. Local First Educational Foundation in Grand Rapids will receive $94,148 to develop stronger marketing and promotion strategies for local Community Supported Agriculture, which allows people to buy into a community farm in return for fruit, vegetables and other agricultural products throughout the growing season. For more information, please visit http://www.ams.usda.gov/FMPP.
09.25.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce $1.2 Million Grant for Village of L’Anse Thursday, September 25, 2014 The Village of L'Anse will receive a federal grant of $1,281,910 from the Economic Development Administration, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. L'Anse will use the funds to support the development of the new US-41 L'Anse Industrial Park. "Today's announcement is great news for Baraga County," said Stabenow. "This critical investment brings together private-public partnerships to help businesses create new jobs and make the Upper Peninsula an even better place to do business." "This grant is an important step in helping L'Anse provide opportunity for Michigan businesses and Michigan workers," Levin said. While Baraga County has three publicly owned industrial parks, two of them are at capacity and the third does not have a lease-to-own option. Improvements to the L'Anse industrial park will address the demand for industrial space and allow for expansion, recruitment of additional tenants, and opportunities for investment in the region and job creation. The EDA investment will help pay for the construction of roads and utility infrastructure. Once completed, the industrial park will provide space for the growth of manufacturing in L'Anse and Baraga County. It is anticipated that 84 jobs will be created and $4 million in private investment will follow. The total cost of the project is $1,831,300. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process.
09.24.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce $1.5 Million Regional Grant for Highland Park Fire Department Wednesday, September 24, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced a $1,568,160 regional grant for the Highland Park Fire Department to improve operations and safety. This support, which comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will help train firefighters in Wayne County. "Today's announcement is great news for the Highland Park Fire Department and families in Wayne County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Last September, Highland Park Fire Department dedicated their brand new fire station built with funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act," Levin said. "With this federal grant from FEMA, Highland Park firefighters will have even more resources to help support them in their difficult and dangerous work." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.23.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Advance Michigan Manufacturing Community Tuesday, September 23, 2014 Advance Michigan Manufacturing Community, a partnership of more than 30 organizations in the 13-county Southeast Michigan region, will receive $200,000 from the Economic Development Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce, Sens. Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow announced today. The funds will be used to develop long-term growth strategies for community investment and workforce development. "Advance Michigan brings together Southeast Michigan's industries, universities, cities and counties in an initiative that builds on the region's strengths in automotive technology and manufacturing," Levin said. "This grant will help Advance Michigan continue its efforts to boost Michigan workers and the Michigan economy." "Today's announcement is great news for Michigan workers and our economy," said Stabenow. "This investment will help our automotive technology and manufacturing industry develop and grow and ensure that we can continue to create high-tech, cutting-edge jobs and train our workers with the right skills to fill them." In May, the Commerce Department selected Southeast Michigan as one of 12 communities nationwide to be part of the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership initiative, a federal program launched in 2013. The IMCP rewards communities for devising and instituting economic development plans that focus on manufacturing investment. The communities receive coordinated support from federal agencies to help implement their economic development plans. Information on IMCP is available here: http://www.eda.gov/challenges/imcp/. Information about Advance Michigan can be found here: http://www.eda.gov/challenges/imcp/files/IMCP_2_Pager_Handout_Michigan.pdf.
09.23.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Funding for Michigan State University Food Processing Plant Tuesday, September 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, and U.S. Senator Carl Levin today announced that the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) will support the construction of a leading independent food processing facility at Michigan State University. Michigan State University's Food Processing and Innovation Center project will receive nearly $3 million to renovate an existing building on campus where businesses that employ 10 to 100 people can grow and develop. "Today's announcement is another critical step to help small businesses in Michigan get their products on the market," said Stabenow. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here. Building an innovative food facility will create new job opportunities in Michigan's agriculture industry and help move our economy forward." "Agriculture is an essential part of Michigan's economy, and this grant will help promote new opportunities for Michigan growers and small businesses," Levin said. The new U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Food Drug Administration (FDA) certified food processing facility is set to be Michigan's leading independent food processing facility targeting second stage food processing companies looking to create new products and product line extensions to sell into the retail supply chain. It is estimated that this project will create 327 jobs and leverage $273 million in private investment.
09.22.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Nearly $26 Million to Fund New Buses in Detroit Monday, September 22, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the City of Detroit Department of Transportation to help buy 50 new buses and connect people with jobs, training, and vital services. The $25,925,548 Ladders of Opportunity Initiative Grant comes through the Department of Transportation's Federal Transit Administration. "Today's announcement is great news and will make a tangible difference in the lives of Detroit families," said Stabenow. "This project is another example of the incredible things happening in Detroit and throughout the region. Reliable transportation is critical for families who need a safe and dependable way to get to work, school or the doctor's office." "Transit is one of the many areas in which Detroit's rebound is picking up steam, and this grant will help promote efficient, dependable public transportation that serves residents and helps build the economy," said Levin. The Ladders of Opportunity Initiative program aims to modernize and expand transit bus service to help connect disadvantaged and low-income individuals, veterans, seniors, and youths, with local workforce training, employment centers, and health care services. Senators Stabenow and Levin both sent letters to the Department of Transportation in July to push for funding for the project.
09.18.2014	Levin, Stabenow Introduce Senate Companion to Kildee House Resolution Opposing Permanent Storage of Nuclear Waste in Great Lakes Basin Thursday, September 18, 2014 Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., today introduced a Senate resolution urging the administration to oppose a Canadian proposal to build a permanent nuclear waste repository in the Great Lakes Basin. The measure is a companion resolution to one introduced by Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Flint, earlier this month. The Senate resolution is co-sponsored by Sens. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., Mark Kirk, R-Ill., and Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis. "Canada's proposed nuclear waste storage facility, less than a mile from Lake Huron, would not only threaten our precious lakes, but it could also be disastrous for the health of our citizens and our economy," Levin said. "For over a century, the U.S. and Canada have worked together to protect our shared water, and we need to make sure that decisions we make about permanently storing nuclear waste continue our history of careful stewardship of our lakes." "Michigan's Great Lakes are an invaluable resource that must be protected from the threat of Canadian nuclear waste," Congressman Kildee said. "Permanently burying nuclear waste less than a mile from Lake Huron would put the world's largest fresh water source at risk and jeopardize billions in economic activity each year. I will continue to work with Senator Levin and a growing number of legislators in both the House and Senate to ensure that such a permanent storage facility is not built so close to our shared water resources." "Canada's proposed nuclear waste dump on the shores of Lakes Huron puts our Great Lakes at risk of radioactive contamination that could have devastating consequences for future generations," said Stabenow. "I have expressed my strong objections to the Canadian government directly, and today's resolution puts additional pressure on the Canadians to stop this plan." Ontario Power Generation has proposed to build a permanent repository for nuclear waste less than a mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. This close proximity to the lake, Levin and Kildee argue, could be disastrous if an accidental spill were ever to occur. The highly toxic waste can take tens of thousands of years to decompose to safe levels. The Canadian government has expressed similar concerns in the past. In the 1980s, the U.S. Department of Energy studied potential sites for a permanent nuclear waste repository in the United States, and the Canadian government expressed concern with locating the permanent repository within the countries' shared water basins. The resolution urges the President and Secretary of State to work with their counterparts to prevent a permanent nuclear waste repository from being built within the Great Lakes Basin. It further states that the U.S. and Canada should develop a safe and responsible solution for the long-term storage of nuclear waste. Kildee's House resolution is co-sponsored by Reps. Sandy Levin, D-Royal Oak, Gary Peters, D-Bloomfield Twp., and Brian Higgins, D-N.Y. Over 40 million people in Canada and the United States get their drinking water from the Great Lakes.
09.18.2014	Michigan Delegation Pushes for Emergency Disaster Declaration Thursday, September 18, 2014 Today, a bipartisan group of thirteen members of the Michigan congressional delegation wrote to President Obama urging support of Michigan Governor Rick Snyder's request for a Presidential disaster declaration, following flash floods caused by record rainfall in early August. The letter, signed by Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and Reps. John D. Dingell (D-MI12), John Conyers (D-MI13), Sander Levin (D-MI09), Fred Upton (R-MI06), Dave Camp (R-MI04), Mike Rogers (R-MI08), Candice Miller (R-MI10), Gary Peters (D-MI14), Tim Walberg (R-MI07), Bill Huizenga (R-MI02), and Dan Kildee (D-MI05), details much of the damage caused by flash flooding in Wayne, Oakland, and Macomb counties. "Record one-day totals of rainfall - four to six inches in less than four hours in some locations - flooded Metro Detroit and caused millions of dollars in damage to homes, businesses, vehicles, public buildings and infrastructure," the group wrote in the letter. "Treacherous conditions, sedimentation and high water levels severely impacted highways and local roadways. In fact, water levels rose as high as 12 feet in some sections of our highways, which were closed for days while crews removed flooded cars, sediment and water. The flooding also slowed manufacturing, a vital part of Michigan's economy, and closed small businesses as a result of transportation disruptions and damage." The state of Michigan estimates more than $1.1 billion in total residential and commercial flood damage in the three affected counties, requiring recovery beyond the capacity of state and local governments, according to the delegation. A copy of the letter can be found here, and full text can be found below: September 18, 2014 The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing in full support of Governor Rick Snyder's request on September 17, 2014 for a Presidential disaster declaration for the State of Michigan as a result of severe flash flooding that struck the counties of Wayne, Oakland and Macomb in metropolitan Detroit. Nearly four million of our State's residents reside in these three counties. Record one-day totals of rainfall - four to six inches in less than four hours in some locations - flooded Metro Detroit and caused millions of dollars in damage to homes, businesses, vehicles, public buildings and infrastructure. Treacherous conditions, sedimentation and high water levels severely impacted highways and local roadways. In fact, water levels rose as high as 12 feet in some sections of our highways, which were closed for days while crews removed flooded cars, sediment and water. The flooding also slowed manufacturing, a vital part of Michigan's economy, and closed small businesses as a result of transportation disruptions and damage. The Governor declared a state of emergency on August 13, 2014, allowing state resources to assist with the recovery. However, with severe damage of this magnitude, and as described in the Governor's request, effective recovery is beyond the capacity of state and local governments. The State of Michigan reports estimates that total residential and commercial flood damage in the three-county area exceeded $1.1 billion. In addition, across the three-county area, damage surveys indicated that less than 20 percent of flood-damaged homes were covered by flood insurance and sewer back-up insurance. We urge you to make a federal disaster declaration and provide the requested assistance so that communities across Southeast Michigan can rebuild. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Debbie StabenowU.S. Senator Carl LevinU.S. Senator John D. DingellMember of Congress John ConyersMember of Congress Sander LevinMember of Congress Fred UptonMember of Congress Dave CampMember of Congress Mike RogersMember of Congress Candice MillerMember of Congress Gary PetersMember of Congress Tim WalbergMember of Congress Bill HuizengaMember of Congress Dan KildeeMember of Congress
09.17.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Marquette Fire Department Wednesday, September 17, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Marquette Fire Department to improve operations and safety. This $50,624 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Marquette Fire Department and Michigan families," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Every day, first responders in Marquette stand ready to protect lives and property in their community," said Levin. "This grant will support the firefighters of Marquette Fire Department and help them in their vital mission of keeping their city's residents and visitors safe." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.16.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow: Seven More Michigan Counties Declared Free of Bovine Tuberculosis Tuesday, September 16, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has declared that seven Northern Michigan counties are free of bovine tuberculosis, which is a serious threat to Michigan's agriculture industry and rural economy. Since Sen. Stabenow's initial call on Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack in 2011 to address the spread of the disease, Michigan livestock producers have received increased resources to battle the epidemic. USDA's announcement that seven more counties are "tuberculosis free" is welcome news for livestock producers and Michigan's economy. "Today's announcement proves that hard work pays off," Stabenow said. "Producers in Northern Michigan have continued to make changes to prevent this harmful disease from spreading on their farms. I will continue to work with federal and state officials to make sure Michigan producers have the funding they need to get rid of bovine TB for good." USDA announced that Antrim, Charlevoix, Cheboygan, Crawford, Emmet, Otsego, and Presque Isle counties have been tuberculosis free since 2011 and will no longer need to test for bovine tuberculosis in cattle and bison, which will eliminate the need for costly record keeping and animal testing practices. Chairwoman Stabenow, who has been at the forefront of the battle against bovine TB in Michigan, urged the USDA in 2011 to allocate additional resources to address the spread of the disease. Cattle are Michigan's fifth most valuable commodity, reaching over $541 million cash receipts in 2013, up 13 percent from 2012. Michigan's TB Free status was revoked in 2000 following a comprehensive surveillance of livestock, but was granted split-state status in 2004 to allow eradication efforts to focus on the area affected and the surrounding buffer zone.
09.16.2014	Senate Republicans Block Bill to Lower Student Loan Payments for Millions of Americans Tuesday, September 16, 2014 Senate Republicans today blocked legislation co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow that would lower the student loan payments of more than 25 million Americans, including nearly one million in Michigan alone. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, introduced by Senator Stabenow, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Senator Al Franken (D-MN) and others, would allow people to refinance their existing loans at the lower rates available to new borrowers during the 2013-2014 school year. The effect would be significant savings for borrowers on their monthly loan payments. The legislation is fully paid for and would save taxpayers billions of dollars by enacting the Buffett Rule, which ensures that millionaires and billionaires pay their fair share of taxes. Senate Republicans also blocked the passage of this bill in June. "It's outrageous that Senate Republicans refuse to even vote on a common-sense bill that would allow nearly one million people in Michigan to save money on their student loan payments. Once again, they stood up for the wealthy and well-connected and ignored the needs of millions of American families." said Stabenow. When you're under a mountain of student loan debt, you can't afford to buy a car, a house, or start a family. Michigan families can't afford this kind of debt, and the country can't afford this kind of drain on our economy." According to the Project on Student Debt, Michigan ranks in the top ten of states with the highest average student loan debt. In Michigan, the average student loan debt among those who borrow to get a bachelor's degree is nearly $29,000, and 62 percent of Michigan students have debt when they graduate. Many borrowers are stuck with unsustainable levels of student debt for two or even three decades of their lives. Under the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, a borrower with $29,000 in public loans at a 7 percent interest rate would save over $5,400 in interest payments over ten years. A borrower with $100,000 in private loans at a 14 percent interest rate would save nearly $155,000 in interest payments over twenty years.
09.16.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Forecasting Harmful Algal Blooms Tuesday, September 16, 2014 Researchers at the University of Michigan will receive a federal grant of $653,097 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to develop tools to predict water quality and forecast harmful algal blooms (HABS) in the Great Lakes, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The grant will also support outreach activities to let the public know about the presence of HABS. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This grant will help University of Michigan researchers develop tools to better understand the effects algal blooms have on our Lakes and help prevent future blooms like the one that recently contaminated drinking water in Southeast Michigan." "When I was a member of the Detroit City Council, I helped pass the first local phosphorus restrictions," said Levin. "We are still fighting harmful algal blooms today, and this grant will help make that fight more effective." Harmful algal blooms occur when blue-green algae, also known as cyanobacteria, grow rapidly due to a combination of warm water temperatures, high nutrient levels such as phosphorus and nitrogen, and sunlight. HABS contain toxins that can kill fish, foul coastlines, and pose health risks to humans. Levin is co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force and Stabenow is one of the vice-chairs of the task force.
09.15.2014	Senate Republicans Once Again Block Passage of Bill that Would Guarantee Equal Pay for Women Second Time in Five Months Republicans Have Voted Against Ending Gender Discrimination in Pay Monday, September 15, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senate Republicans today blocked a final vote on legislation cosponsored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow to ensure women receive equal pay for equal work. The Paycheck Fairness Act would have helped reduce gender discrimination by empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, close loopholes courts have created in the law, and create strong incentives for employers to obey the laws by strengthening federal enforcement efforts. This is the second time just this year that Senate Republicans filibustered this commonsense legislation. "It is totally unacceptable that, once again, my Republican colleagues blocked a bill to finally guarantee women equal pay for equal work," said Stabenow. "We have no room for political stunts when it comes to the lives of women and their families in Michigan and whether or not they are able to put food on the table and a roof over their heads." The Paycheck Fairness Act was blocked by Senate Republicans in April. Because of gender discrimination in pay, women in Michigan, on average, still earn only 74 cents on the dollar compared to men. Women nationally must work one year, three months and 8 days - more than three months into the current year - to earn the same amount a man earned during just the 12 months of 2013.
09.15.2014	Senator Stabenow Participates in M-1 RAIL Community Celebration, Highlights New Federal Support for Rail Project Monday, September 15, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today participated in a community celebration to highlight additional federal support for the M-1 RAIL project. Sen. Stabenow and Southeast Michigan's Congressional Delegation helped secure $12.2 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation, which will allow the transit project to be finalized by the end of 2016. In 2013, Sen. Stabenow and her colleagues also helped secure a $25 million federal grant to invest in M-1 RAIL and have worked closely with business and community leaders, philanthropic partners, Wayne State University and others on the project. "Today's groundbreaking celebration is an exciting milestone for the M-1 RAIL project," said Stabenow. "Once up and running, the new project will help attract new businesses and investment to Detroit and create thousands of new jobs, providing a major economic boost to Southeast Michigan. Congratulations to all of the community partners for bringing M-1 RAIL one step closer to completion." M-1 RAIL is a public-private partnership to build a 3.3-mile streetcar line that will run along the Woodward corridor from downtown to the New Center area of Detroit, boosting economic development in Southeast Michigan and creating thousands of jobs. Construction of the M-1 RAIL began in July and will include 11 stations providing links among key destinations along Woodward Avenue.
09.15.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce $5 Million for Detroit Metropolitan Airport to Rehabilitate Taxiway Monday, September 15, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport to rehabilitate its taxiway. The $5,000,000 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from Michigan is vital to the state's economy," said Stabenow. "This support will help ensure that the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport can continue to keep people travelling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." "Detroit Metro is crucial to Southeast Michigan's economy," said Levin. "This federal grant will allow the airport to continue making needed upgrades to its infrastructure that will help keep Michigan connected to commerce and tourism across the country and around the world." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
09.15.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Funding for University of Michigan Project to Study Effects of Climate Change on the Great Lakes Monday, September 15, 2014 Senators Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, announced today a $321,448 grant for the University of Michigan's Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research through the School of Natural Resources and Environment. This support, which comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Office of Oceanic & Atmospheric Research, will help researchers study the effects of climate change on the Great Lakes' water quantity and quality. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This grant will help University of Michigan researchers understand how climate change will affect the Lakes in order to better protect and preserve them for generations to come." "The Great Lakes are Michigan's greatest natural treasure, and we take seriously our stewardship of the Lakes," said Levin. "Understanding how climate change impacts the Great Lakes is critical to our efforts to protect the Lakes. This research grant to the University of Michigan will contribute to that understanding and aid us in managing this vital resource." University of Michigan's Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Office of Oceanic & Atmospheric Research aim to promote environmental research and ensure environmental and economic sustainability.
09.12.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce $8 Million for Michigan Community Health Centers to Expand Access to Care Friday, September 12, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced federal support for 36 Michigan Community Health Centers. The funding, which will expand access to affordable and quality care, comes through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and was made available by the Affordable Care Act. "Many Michigan families rely on community health centers to receive basic medical services," said Stabenow. "Without these centers, many patients would go without critical health care or be forced to turn to the emergency room, which is a much greater cost. Today's announcement will help community health centers across the state serve thousands of additional patients." "Michigan's community health centers play a vital role in communities across our state," Levin said. "This federal funding will provide much needed support to these health centers as they offer essential health care services to thousands of Michiganians." $8,539,761 was awarded to health centers across Michigan, including two community mental health centers. This funding is projected to support 144 new full time employees and 51,635 new patients. Community health centers play a vital role in delivering health care service in high-need communities, whose residents typically lack insurance. For a list of the 36 health center awardees and award amounts, click here.
09.12.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for YMCA of Greater Grand Rapids to Expand Access to Healthy Foods Friday, September 12, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support to expand healthy food options in Grand Rapids. This grant, which comes through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, will help the YMCA of Greater Grand Rapids roll out and expand several projects to provide healthy and nutritious foods to urban and low income communities. "This support will help the YMCA of Greater Grand Rapids connect families with local farmers and ranchers, boosting the local economy while providing consumers with more healthy food options," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is great news for West Michigan farmers, businesses, and families who will have better access to fresh foods." "We are very excited to receive this funding so we can bring together urban farmers, corner store owners, the YMCA Veggie Van mobile farmers' market, and Grand Rapids' most vulnerable residents to build a sustainable local food system in Grand Rapids," said Julie Sielawa, Executive Director of Community Outreach at YMCA of Greater Grand Rapids. The YMCA of Greater Grand Rapids will receive $292,658 from the USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture's Community Food Projects Competitive Grant Program to expand local food projects. Specifically, the funds will be used to help small businesses connect with local farmers and growers to provide healthy foods to the community. This support will also help the YMCA expand the hours of operation for their "Veggie Van," a mobile farmers' market. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
09.11.2014	Senate Republicans Block Measure to Limit the Role of Special Interests in Elections Thursday, September 11, 2014 Senate Republicans today filibustered a final vote on a constitutional amendment that would have responded to the Supreme Court's decisions in Citizens United and related cases, which have unleashed hundreds of millions of dollars in campaign spending from outside special interest groups and secretive billionaires, by restoring the longstanding authority of Congress and the states to regulate campaign spending. Senator Stabenow is a co-sponsor of the amendment authored by Senator Tom Udall (D-NM). Senate Republicans also previously blocked the DISCLOSE Act, which would require transparency so voters know who is paying for the attack ads they see on TV. "Anyone who turns on their TV today can see for themselves that our political system is broken," said Stabenow. "This constitutional amendment will get the secret money out of our elections. Elections should be determined by voters, not by the highest bidding billionaire." Outside groups have spent over $11 million to influence voter decisions in Michigan's 2014 U.S. Senate election.
09.10.2014	Senate Moves Forward with Legislation to Guarantee Equal Pay for Women Wednesday, September 10, 2014 The Senate voted today to move forward with legislation cosponsored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow that would ensure women receive equal pay for equal work. The Paycheck Fairness Act would help reduce gender discrimination by empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, close loopholes courts have created in the law, and create strong incentives for employers to obey the laws by strengthening federal enforcement efforts. "Now that the Senate has voted on a bipartisan basis to move forward on this vital legislation, it should not be dragged down by partisan distractions and extraneous items, something that has happened all too often with commonsense bills in recent months," said Stabenow. "Ending gender discrimination in the workplace is not a partisan issue; it's the right thing to do in order to create an economy that works for all Americans. We need to debate and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act without delay to give Michigan families a fair shot to get ahead in life." The Paycheck Fairness Act was blocked by Senate Republicans in April. Because of gender discrimination in pay, women in Michigan, on average, still earn only 74 cents on the dollar compared to men. Women must work one year, three months and 8 days - more than three months into the current year - to earn the same amount a man earned during just the 12 months of 2013.
09.10.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Fire Prevention Grant for Olivet Fire Department Wednesday, September 10, 2014 The Olivet Fire Department will receive a federal grant from the Department of Homeland Security to help increase public safety through fire prevention activities, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The department will receive $19,000 from the Assistance to Firefighters Fire Prevention and Safety Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Today's announcement is great news for the Olivet Fire Department and families in Eaton County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters not only fight fires, they work to prevent fires in the first place," said Levin. "This grant will help the Olivet Fire Department carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community by focusing on activities that will help prevent fires." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Fire Prevention and Safety Grant program, which helps local fire departments enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness, code enforcement, and fire and arson investigation. Some examples of education and awareness programs would include smoke alarm installations and home safety inspections; code enforcement programs would include increasing awareness of building codes; fire and arson investigations would include support to help fire departments investigate every fire. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
09.10.2014	Stabenow, Levin announce $7.2 million grant for Gerald R. Ford International Airport Wednesday, September 10, 2014 Gerald R. Ford International Airport will receive more than $7.2 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation to help pay for construction of a deicing containment facility, Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. "Today's announcement is great news for the Gerald R. Ford International Airport and the community," said Stabenow. "This support will help the airport preserve local water quality by making sure that deicing fluid doesn't pollute the area's water system." "Gerald R. Ford International Airport provides a vital transportation link to West Michigan," said Levin. "This federal grant will help ensure that the airport can continue to invest in its infrastructure and serve the travelers and businesses that depend on reliable air transportation." The grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation totals $7,239,767.
09.10.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Lupton Fire Department Wednesday, September 10, 2014 The Lupton Fire Department will receive a federal grant to help improve their operations and boost safety in their community, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Lupton Fire Department will receive $15,409 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. "Today's announcement is great news for the Lupton Fire Department and families in Ogemaw County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," said Levin. "This grant will help Lupton Fire Department carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Operations and Safety program, which helps local fire departments improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
09.10.2014	Senate to Vote Today on Bill to Guarantee Equal Pay for Women Wednesday, September 10, 2014 The Senate will vote on legislation today cosponsored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow to ensure that women receive equal pay for equal work. The Paycheck Fairness Act would help reduce gender discrimination by empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, close loopholes courts have created in the law, and create strong incentives for employers to obey the laws by strengthening federal enforcement efforts. "Women and their families deserve a fair shot to get ahead in life by making sure they are not discriminated against at work," said Stabenow. "Women, many of whom are breadwinners for their families, should not be asked to work a job that pays them less for doing the same work as their male counterparts. For thousands of families in Michigan, equal pay for equal work is about whether or not they have food on the table and a roof over their heads." The Paycheck Fairness Act was blocked by Senate Republicans in April. Because of gender discrimination in pay, women in Michigan, on average, still earn only 74 cents on the dollar compared to men. Women nationally must work one year, three months and 8 days - more than three months into the current year - to earn the same amount a man earned during just the 12 months of 2013.
09.09.2014	Michigan Lawmakers Applaud Investment in Detroit’s M-1 RAIL Tuesday, September 09, 2014 U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin and Congressmen Gary Peters, John Conyers, Jr., John D. Dingell, and Sander Levin, announced today that M-1 RAIL will receive $12.2 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). M-1 RAIL is a public-private partnership to build a 3.3-mile streetcar line that will run along the Woodward corridor from downtown to the New Center area of Detroit, boosting economic development in Southeast Michigan and creating thousands of jobs. "Today's announcement is great news and an important economic boost for Detroit and Southeast Michigan," said Stabenow. "This project will help attract new businesses and investments in the region and create thousands of new jobs. Today's news is another vote of confidence in the amazing public-private partnerships that are moving Detroit forward." "It's an exciting time to be a Detroiter," Sen. Levin said. "Today's grant announcement is the final piece of the puzzle for the M-1 project, which represents years of work by the Detroit community. The M-1 project will produce even more development along the Woodward Corridor in the coming years." "Investing in transit like the M-1 RAIL project is critical to creating good jobs and driving new economic development opportunities for communities across Southeast Michigan," said Peters. "Experts estimate that every $1 we invest in transportation and infrastructure has a $4 return on the investment. This is a positive step toward building a strong future for Greater Detroit." "M1 RAIL is a win-win-win for commuters, businesses, and taxpayers," said Conyers. "Today's announcement will fast-track this essential job-creating project." "This much-needed funding is not only an investment in creating good jobs today, it's an investment in an infrastructure system that will show benefits well into the foreseeable future," said Dingell. "A public transportation system like this is a positive step forward for the city of Detroit and throughout our surrounding areas. I'm proud we were able to work together at all levels of government, and with private industry, to show the importance of this effort and the support of our community behind it. This is wonderful news for Southeast Michigan." "This is an important step in moving forward with rail along the Woodward Avenue corridor," said Rep. Levin. "The federal government has been and must continue to be a full partner in this effort." Southeast Michigan's Congressional Delegation helped secure this and other federal funding for M-1 RAIL by working closely with high-ranking government officials, business and community leaders, philanthropic partners, Wayne State University and others on the project. This new funding will allow the transit project to be finalized by the end of 2016 and comes through the U.S. DOT's TIGER discretionary grant program, which invests in local transportation projects designed to strengthen the economy, increase commerce, and achieve critical national policy objectives. Construction of the M-1 RAIL began in June and will include 11 stations providing links among key destinations along Woodward Avenue. It will also provide an energy efficient transportation alternative and reduce traffic congestion and parking demand along the corridor. A one-way trip will take approximately 15 minutes depending on the time of day.
09.09.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Nearly $8 Million for Great Lakes Habitat Restoration Tuesday, September 09, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced support for the Great Lakes Commission to lead a regional partnership focusing on habitat restoration in the Lakes. The partnership, comprised of the Great Lakes Commission and state and local agencies, will receive $7,885,553 through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This funding will support regional partnerships that will help strengthen and restore our Lakes and protect them for generations to come." "This grant is tremendous news for all of us who care about our Great Lakes," said Levin. "We've already made great progress in cleaning up toxic hot spots and restoring habitat throughout the Great Lakes, and this grant will help ensure that vital work can continue." This support will help continue work already underway through the U.S. Great Lakes Areas of Concern program and the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Sens. Stabenow and Levin led the effort to pass the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
09.09.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support to Re-Connect Black Creek Marsh to the Clinton River Tuesday, September 09, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced support for the Huron-Clinton Metropolitan Authority to help ensure the Black Creek Marsh Coastal Wetlands' ecosystem remains healthy. The $648,000 grant, which will re-connect the Marsh to the Clinton River and re-create the former Black Creek Channel, comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "Conserving and protecting our valuable natural resources is critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This support will help make sure the Black Creek Marsh can support outdoor recreation and tourism for generations to come." "This grant is tremendous news for all of us who care about our Great Lakes," said Levin. "We've already made great progress in restoring habitat in the Lake St. Clair basin, and this grant to the Huron-Clinton Metropolitan Authority will help ensure that vital work can continue with the re-connection of Black Creek Marsh to the Clinton River." This funding will help reverse the damage caused to the marsh by dredging, filling, and hydrological modifications by re-connecting the marsh to its original sources, the Clinton River and Lake St. Clair. The project will also help manage and control invasive species in the marsh.
09.09.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Michigan Wetlands Restoration Tuesday, September 09, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced support for Ducks Unlimited to implement conservation programs to help restore and conserve Great Lakes coastal and interior wetlands. The $1,488,944 grant comes through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "Our Great Lakes and wetlands support outdoor recreation and tourism in communities across Michigan," said Stabenow. "This funding will help Ducks Unlimited restore our wetlands, conserve wildlife habitats, and protect our Lakes for generations to come." "This grant is tremendous news for all of us who care about our Great Lakes," said Levin. "We've already made great progress in restoring wetlands and habitat in the Great Lakes basin, and this grant to Ducks Unlimited will help ensure that vital work can continue." This support will help Ducks Unlimited form and expand partnerships with other conservation organizations and agencies. Ducks Unlimited, which has worked in the Great Lakes basin since the 1980s, has helped protect, restore, and enhance more than 145,000 acres of wetlands and associated uplands in the Great Lakes watershed.
09.09.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support to Restore Habitats Near Clinton River Spillway Tuesday, September 09, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced support for Macomb County Public Works to help restore habitats near the Clinton River Spillway off Lake St. Clair. The $2,511,800 grant, which will help restore native vegetation, fish, and wildlife populations, comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "Conserving our valuable resources and protecting our native species is critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This support will help make sure the Clinton River and Lake St. Clair can support outdoor recreation and tourism for generations to come." "This grant is tremendous news for all of us who care about our Great Lakes," said Levin. "We've already made great progress in restoring habitat in the Lake St. Clair basin, and this grant to Macomb County Public Works will help ensure that vital work can continue in the Clinton River Spillway." This support will restore the Lake St. Clair estuary, riverbanks, nearbank areas, riparian corridor, floodplain, and off-channel habitats, which will help boost native fish populations and increase the overall flood carrying capacity of the 2-mile long Spillway.
09.03.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Fire Prevention Grant for Grand Rapids’ Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors Wednesday, September 03, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors to help those who are recovering from burn injuries and increase public safety through fire prevention and preparedness. This $256,120 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors and the people it serves," said Stabenow. "Organizations like this play a critical role in preventing future burn injuries all across the country, and they rely on this funding to provide support to survivors and their families." "The Phoenix Society has played a crucial role in providing burn survivors with the care and support they need during extraordinarily difficult times," said Levin. "This grant will help the staff at the Phoenix Society continue their vital work of helping individuals recover physically and emotionally from burn injuries." The Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors, which is based in Grand Rapids, is a national organization that works with burn injury survivors, families, health care professionals, burn centers, and the fire industry to support those affected and help prevent future burn injuries. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.03.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Fire Prevention Grant for the Michigan Public Health Institute Wednesday, September 03, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Michigan Public Health Institute in Okemos to help increase public safety through fire prevention and preparedness. This $424,346 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Today's announcement is great news for communities across the state," said Stabenow. "Organizations like the Michigan Public Health Institute play a critical role in fire prevention and preparedness, and they rely on this support to help keep our families safe." "The Michigan Public Health Institute has played a vital role in spearheading a wide range of community-based health solutions across the state," said Levin. "This grant will help MPHI continue its vital work in the area of injury prevention." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.03.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Canton Township Fire Department Wednesday, September 03, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Canton Township Fire Department to improve operations and safety. This $339,300 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Canton Township Fire Department and Michigan families," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Every day, first responders in Canton Township stand ready to protect lives and property in their community," said Levin. "This grant will support these brave firefighters and EMTs in their difficult and dangerous work." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
09.03.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Stephenson Volunteer Fire Department Wednesday, September 03, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Stephenson Volunteer Fire Department to improve operations and safety. This $104,937 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Stephenson Volunteer Fire Department and families in Menominee County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Every day, first responders in Stephenson stand ready to protect lives and property in their community," said Levin. "This grant will support the brave firefighters and EMTs of the Stephenson VFD in their difficult and dangerous work." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.29.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant to Support Coastal Observations in Great Lakes Friday, August 29, 2014 An observation system that provides real-time data on the health of the coastal ecosystem of the Great Lakes will receive a federal grant of $252,681, from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to improve its online presence, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The Synthesis, Observations and Response (SOAR) system integrates various activities in support of restoration of the Great Lakes. Today's award will be administered by the University of Michigan. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This support will help University of Michigan researchers better understand how we can restore and protect our Lakes for future generations." "In cleaning up the Great Lakes, we need to ensure that scientists and decision makers have the best tools available to manage restoration projects in a targeted and cost-effective manner," Levin said. "This grant will help improve access to information to researchers working on restoration of the Great Lakes we all love dearly." SOAR combines observations of water conditions and models of the coastal ecosystem to develop tools that support Great Lakes restoration such as on-water and remote sensing platforms and databases created from these observations. The real-time data provides valuable information for researchers and decision makers. SOAR is a collaboration of federal agencies including NOAA, the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Geological Survey, and non-federal partners including the Great Lakes Observing System Regional Association and the International Joint Commission. Levin is co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force and Stabenow is one of the vice-chairs of the task force.
08.27.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Firefighter Grants for Grand Haven and Plainfield Charter Township Wednesday, August 27, 2014 Grand Haven Department of Public Safety and the Plainfield Fire Department will each receive a federal grant from the Department of Homeland Security to help increase public safety through improvements to their operations and fire prevention activities, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Plainfield Fire Department will receive $274,860 for fire prevention activities, and Grand Haven Department of Public Safety will receive $22,107 to improve operations and safety. Both grants are part of the DHS Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Grand Haven Department of Public Safety, the Plainfield Fire Department, and families in these communities," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters and EMTs stand ready every day to put their lives on the line for their community," Levin said. "And firefighters not only fight fires, they work to prevent fires in the first place. These grants will help the Grand Haven Department of Public Safety and the Plainfield Fire Department in their vital mission of protecting lives and property in their communities." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to apply for federal grant money in several categories. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. Today's grants are from two categories of the AFG program: Fire Prevention and Safety, and Operations and Safety. Fire Prevention and Safety grants are geared to help local fire departments enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness, code enforcement, and fire and arson investigation. Some examples of education and awareness programs would include smoke alarm installations and home safety inspections; code enforcement programs would include increasing awareness of building codes; fire and arson investigations would include support to help fire departments investigate every fire. Operations and Safety grants help local fire departments by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
08.27.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Frederic Township Volunteer Fire Department Wednesday, August 27, 2014 The Frederic Township Volunteer Fire Department will receive a federal grant to help improve their operations and boost safety in their community, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Frederic Township Volunteer Fire Department will receive $20,900 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. "Today's announcement is great news for the Frederic Township Volunteer Fire Department and families in Crawford County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "This grant will help Frederic Township VFD carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Operations and Safety program, which helps local fire departments improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
08.27.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Grant to Renovate Vogue Theater in Manistee Wednesday, August 27, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Vogue Theatre in Manistee. This $60,000 grant, made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Business Enterprise Grant program, will be used to help fully restore and reopen the historic two-screen theatre. "Today's announcement is great news for the Vogue Theatre and the City of Manistee," said Stabenow. "This theatre is a historical treasure for moviegoers in Northern Michigan, and fully restoring it will help boost the region's economy by bringing more people downtown to local restaurants, shops and other small businesses." "With the support of Senator Stabenow and USDA-Rural Development tens of thousands of people young and old, residents and visitors, will make the Vogue Theatre their entertainment destination for generations to come," said Tim Ervin of the Alliance for Economic Success-Manistee and Trustee of the Manistee County Community Foundation. "The reopening of the Vogue Theatre is truly an economic game changer for Manistee County." The Vogue Theatre, which was built in 1938, reopened to the public last December after being closed since 2005. The Historic Vogue Theatre of Manistee has overseen the restoration. Stabenow sent a letter of support in January urging USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack to consider the Vogue Theatre's grant application to help renovate the historic space and revitalize downtown Manistee. She also visited the theatre last September while it was being renovated. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
08.25.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Great Lakes Habitat Restoration Monday, August 25, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, today announced support for the Great Lakes Commission to lead a regional partnership focusing on habitat restoration in the Lakes. The partnership, comprised of the Great Lakes Commission and state and local agencies, will receive $488,000 through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This funding will support regional partnerships that will help strengthen and restore our Lakes and protect them for generations to come." "This grant is tremendous news for all of us who care about our Great Lakes," said Levin. "Habitat restoration is a victory for our Lakes, today and for years to come. Our children and grandchildren will long enjoy the fruits of this important work." This support will help continue work already underway through the U.S. Great Lakes Areas of Concern program and the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Sens. Stabenow and Levin led the effort to pass the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is a multi-year plan to restore and preserve the Great Lakes by eliminating toxins, combating invasive species, restoring habitats, and promoting the general health of the Lakes.
08.25.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Funding for University of Michigan Project to Help Mitigate the Harmful Effects of Algal Blooms in Lake Erie Monday, August 25, 2014 Sens. Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, announced today a $177,706 grant for the University of Michigan's Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research through the School of Natural Resources and Environment. This support, which comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Office of Oceanic & Atmospheric Research, will help researchers develop models to predict and manage algal blooms and prevent water contamination in Lake Erie. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This grant will help University of Michigan researchers better understand how to prevent future algal blooms like the bloom in Lake Erie that recently contaminated drinking water in Southeast Michigan." "This is a battle we've been fighting since I helped pass the first local phosphorus restrictions on the Detroit City Council," Levin said. "As this summer's algae bloom on Lake Erie demonstrates, we still need to research what causes these problems and how to combat them, and this research grant will help provide the answers we need." The Western Lake Erie Phosphorus Concentrations to Mitigate Harmful and Nuisance Algal Blooms project will develop models to better predict algal blooms by studying the relationship between phosphorous contamination and other variables. University of Michigan's Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Office of Oceanic & Atmospheric Research aim to promote environmental research and ensure environmental and economic sustainability.
08.20.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Support U.S. DOT Emergency Relief to Southeast Michigan Wednesday, August 20, 2014 Michigan U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today welcomed the Department of Transportation's announcement of $750,000 in disaster funding that will assist in repairing and reconstructing highways and roads damaged in the wake of historical flooding in Southeast Michigan. "Today's announcement is an important first step in helping Southeast Michigan rebuild from last week's serious flooding," said Stabenow. "Roads and bridges that were damaged in the floods are critical to Michigan's economy and the jobs that rely on trade, manufacturing, and commerce in our state. I will continue to work with the Administration and our Michigan delegation to make sure Michigan has all of the resources needed for businesses and families to recover from this disaster." "Last week's flooding was devastating to homes, businesses, and infrastructure across Southeast Michigan, and communities have united in the effort to rebuild," Levin said. "This DOT funding will help the process of repairing the damage to our roads and highways, and we'll continue working with other agencies for additional assistance to help everyone get back on track."
08.20.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow: USDA Resources will Target Great Lakes Water Quality Wednesday, August 20, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today said conservation assistance will be making its way to Lake Erie in order to improve water quality and prevent water contamination in the Great Lakes region. USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack announced that the Lake Erie watershed will receive $2 million to ensure farmers have the opportunity to take action on implementing best water conservation practices. Sen. Stabenow, vice chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, has led a national effort to protect the Great Lakes for future generations. Stabenow also led her colleagues in writing and passing the 2014 Farm Bill, which represents the nation's biggest investment in conservation programs and is considered one of the most significant pieces of conservation legislation in generations. "The Great Lakes are crucial to our way of life both here in Michigan and across the country," said Stabenow. "This new assistance is important in order to protect the health and wellness of 33 million Americans who rely on the Great Lakes for safe drinking water. Today's announcement is a big step in the right direction to make sure future water contamination crises are prevented." Farmers and partners in the Western Lake Erie Basin will be eligible to apply for funding this week which will encourage water quality protection by preventing soil and nutrition erosion. In addition to this funding, USDA has partnered with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation who are providing Lake Erie with $1 million to increase on-the-ground resources in the event a water contamination crisis occurs. USDA's announcement follows last month's discovery of a toxic algae bloom in Lake Erie that prevented communities in Southeast Michigan from drinking or using their tap water.
08.20.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Luzerne Volunteer Fire Department Wednesday, August 20, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Luzerne Volunteer Fire Department to improve operations and safety. This $158,033 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Luzerne Volunteer Fire Department and families in Oscoda County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," said Levin. "This funding will help the Luzerne Volunteer Fire Department to carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in the community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.19.2014	Stabenow Leads Group of 12 Senators Urging Obama Administration to Raise Awareness of Higher Education Tax Credits Tuesday, August 19, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, along with an additional 11 Senators, today asked the Obama Administration to better inform students and their families about underutilized higher education tax credits made available by the federal government. Senator Stabenow and her colleagues asked the Administration to create a simple, easy-to-understand guide to education tax benefits. Additionally, the Senators asked that an estimate of education tax benefits be made available through the federal student aid application process. Increasing awareness of available tax incentives will help students and families plan for college and hopefully reduce the amount of student loans that individuals need to take out. In a letter to the Department of Education and Department of Treasury, Senator Stabenow and her colleagues stated that, according to a 2012 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), one in six tax filers failed to take the maximum higher education tax benefit available to them. By creating informative tools and raising awareness of tax credits, tax-free savings plans, and tax deductions will be make higher education more accessible and affordable for students and their families. The letter reads in part: "It is our hope that your departments can develop a simple guide to higher education tax benefits that can be circulated to parents and prospective students, school counselors, financial aid administrators, tax preparers, college admission counselors, and any other interested party. The guide should provide an easy-to-understand overview of the current benefits and provide guidance to students and their families on where they can access more detailed information... In order to improve the coordination of all student aid, we ask that you provide an estimate of the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) that applicants could receive based on the tax information they provide on the FAFSA." The letter is signed by Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Bob Casey (D-PA), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Angus King (I-ME), Carl Levin (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Jon Tester (D-MT), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Arne Duncan SecretaryU.S. Department of Education400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20202 The Honorable Jacob Lew SecretaryU.S. Department of Treasury1500 Pennsylvania Ave, N.W.Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Duncan and Secretary Lew, We write to respectfully request your assistance in providing better information to students and their families about underutilized tax benefits available to help them save and pay for college. We firmly believe that one of the best investments we can make in our economy is in post-secondary education whether through job training, certifications, or a college degree. However, more needs to be done to make sure that a higher education is accessible and affordable for all students and their families. That is why we need to make sure that they know about all of the tools available, beyond student loans, to help pay for college - including savings plans, tax credits, and tax deductions. According to a 2012 GAO report, about one in six tax filers failed to take the maximum higher education tax benefit available to them. It is our hope that your departments can develop a simple guide to higher education tax benefits that can be circulated to parents and prospective students, school counselors, financial aid administrators, tax preparers, college admission counselors, and any other interested party. The guide should provide an easy-to-understand overview of the current benefits and provide guidance to students and their families on where they can access more detailed information. This resource should also be available online on the Department of Education's Financial Aid Toolkit and at the Internal Revenue Service's Tax Benefits Information Center. In addition to providing a guide to education tax credits, we also request that you work together to improve the information provided to students and their families through the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) process. As you know, the current online FAFSA application process already requires students to provide tax information in order to estimate student aid eligibility. In order to improve the coordination of all student aid, we ask that you provide an estimate of the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) that applicants could receive based on the tax information they provide on the FAFSA. We also ask that students be given additional information on the interaction of the AOTC and other student aid, such as Pell and institutional aid, so they can maximize benefits. The Administration has been focused on ensuring that college is affordable and accessible to anyone interested in obtaining post-secondary education - goals that we strongly share. Thank you for your consideration of our requests, and we look forward to working with you to ensure that students and their families have the resources they need to prepare for college and their future.
08.18.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Funding for Detroit Metro and Willow Run Airports Monday, August 18, 2014 Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport and Willow Run Airport will each receive federal grants for airport improvements, Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Detroit Metro will receive a $421,875 grant to pay for new equipment, and Willow Run $480,606 to pay for miscellaneous improvements. Both grants are from the Department of Transportation. "Making sure residents, tourists, and business travelers are able to easily travel to and from Southeast Michigan is vital to the region," Stabenow said. "This support will help ensure that Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport and Willow Run Airport can continue to keep people traveling safely and help boost Michigan's economy." "Detroit Metro and Willow Run are essential links for Southeast Michigan to the global economy," Levin said. "These grants will help ensure the airports can continue to facilitate travel and commerce."
08.15.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for MBS International Airport Friday, August 15, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today support for the MBS International Airport in Saginaw County to update its Airport Master Plan and Airport Layout Plan. The $663,039 grant, which comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation, will help the airport address key issues and goals that are critical for its development. "Making sure residents, tourists, and business travelers are able to easily travel to and from the Great Lakes Bay Region is vital," said Stabenow. "This support will help MBS International Airport better evaluate how they can upgrade their facilities to meet the needs of the people they serve." "Efficient air travel is vital to economic development, tourism and maintaining connections around the world," said Levin. "This grant will help ensure that MBS International can continue to fill that essential role." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
08.15.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce More than $23 Million for Michigan Advanced Vehicle Development Projects Friday, August 15, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced $23.66 million in support for Michigan projects to accelerate the research and development of new vehicle technologies and ensure that we reduce our reliance on foreign oil and cut carbon pollution. The support comes through the Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, which works to help our country be more energy efficient and economically competitive. "Today's announcement is great news for our manufacturers and workers," said Stabenow. "Michigan's cutting-edge businesses, engineering talent, and world-class colleges and universities are working together to transform our auto industry while lowering costs at the pump and creating new jobs that drive our economy forward. This support helps ensure that Michigan continues to lead the world in advanced vehicle development and win in a global economy." "These grants are another important investment in American innovation," said Levin. "The list highlights the crucial work happening in Michigan and around the country to ensure that the vehicles destined to dominate the roads of the future are made by American workers and American companies, and furthers the important partnership between the Army and Department of Energy in pursuing advanced vehicle technologies." The Department of Energy announced a total of $55 million for 31 projects across the country. Over twenty three million dollars in support will be distributed to seven Michigan projects led by Ford, Chrysler, Delphi, Ricardo, Inc., and Michigan State University. Ricardo, Inc.'s project to develop fuel-efficient tires will be jointly funded by the Department of the Army. You can find a complete list of projects here. This funding is awarded as part of President Obama's EV Everywhere Grand Challenge to help the U.S. automotive industry lead the way in producing affordable plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) by 2022. Several of these projects involve the development and improvement of lithium and other advanced batteries, which Stabenow has supported for years. Her Battery Innovation Act is expanding Michigan's advanced battery industry and creating new clean energy jobs.
08.13.2014	Stabenow, Levin Support Federal Flood Aid Request Wednesday, August 13, 2014 Michigan U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today welcomed Governor Snyder's state disaster declaration for Wayne, Oakland and Macomb counties. "I fully support a request for federal aid as Southeast Michigan continues to experience unprecedented flooding," Stabenow said. "Thousands of families have already found their homes and businesses devastated by these treacherous conditions. Joint assistance is critical for Michigan communities to make a full recovery in the wake of this terrible disaster." "Governor Snyder's disaster declaration is an essential step before the state can request federal assistance. When that request is made, we will work closely with FEMA and the president to process the declaration on an urgent basis," Levin said.
08.13.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Grand Rapids Charter Township Fire Department and Rockford Public Safety Department Wednesday, August 13, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Grand Rapids Charter Township Fire Department for operations and safety and the Rockford Public Safety Department to improve fire prevention. These grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Grand Rapids Charter Township Fire Department, the Rockford Public Safety Department, and families in Kent County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "This federal support will help ensure that emergency first responders in Grand Rapids Charter Township and Rockford are prepared for their life-saving duties," said Levin. The Grand Rapids Charter Township Fire Department will receive $174,397 to improve operations and safety, and the Rockford Public Safety Department will receive $27,037 to increase public safety through fire prevention. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.13.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Wayne-Westland and Mount Clemens Fire Departments Wednesday, August 13, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Wayne-Westland Fire Department and Mount Clemens Fire Department for operations and safety. These grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Wayne-Westland Fire Department, Mount Clemens Fire Department, and families in Southeast Michigan," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "This federal support will help ensure that emergency first responders from the Wayne-Westland and Mount Clemens fire departments are prepared for their life-saving duties," said Levin. The Wayne-Westland Fire Department will receive $56,250 and the Mount Clemens Fire Department will receive $97,470 to improve operations and safety. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.12.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Funding for University of Michigan Program to Study Great Lakes Ecosystem Tuesday, August 12, 2014 Sens. Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, announced today a $101,000 grant for the Lake Michigan & Lake Huron Long-term Ecological Research Program through the University of Michigan's Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research. The University of Michigan received this award from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory and will use it to study how our Great Lakes ecosystem can be preserved. "The Great Lakes are critical to Michigan's economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "This grant will help University of Michigan researchers better understand how the Great Lakes respond to changing environmental conditions and help preserve our Lakes for future generations." "Stewardship of our precious Great Lakes begins with understanding how best to protect them," said Levin. "This important federal support will help us understand what's happening in the Lakes and how we can ensure that they remain an important part of our economy and our quality of life for generations to come." The 2014 Monitoring Activities for the Lake Michigan & Lake Huron Long-term Ecological Research Program collects data and conducts research to analyze how the Great Lakes ecosystem manages water quality, fisheries, and other services in the Lakes. University of Michigan's Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory aim to preserve and enhance the quality of the Great Lakes ecosystem and make sure the Lakes remain healthy for years to come.
08.07.2014	Senator Stabenow Applauds U.S. Victory Against China’s Illegal Restrictions on Rare Earth Elements Thursday, August 07, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness, today applauded the World Trade Organization (WTO) Appellate Body ruling against China's illegal restrictions on the export of rare earth minerals. Rare earth materials are important components in many American made-products, including hybrid car batteries, wind turbines, energy efficient lighting, and automobiles. Senator Stabenow was among the first to urge the Administration to address this problem and take WTO action against China on the matter. In March, the WTO dispute settlement panel agreed with the United States that China's actions violated WTO rules. Today's ruling by the WTO Appellate Body upholds the panel's decision, forcing China to comply with fair trade policies that protect workers and businesses back home. "Today's ruling is a victory for American manufacturers and workers who are building the next generation of advanced technologies. China clearly violated WTO rules, and I applaud Ambassador Froman for taking this enforcement action against China's illegal export restrictions of these critically important raw materials," said Sen. Stabenow. "We need to continue cracking down on other countries' anti-competitive practices, like currency manipulation, to help American workers and businesses compete and win in the global economy." China's export restrictions on rare earth elements hurts American production in a wide range of industries-from hi-tech batteries for advanced technology vehicles, to smart phone batteries to important military technologies. China now controls production of more than 90 percent of the world's supply of these rare minerals-and has increasingly been using export controls to reduce the amount available on the world market. This, in turn, has sent costs skyrocketing for businesses that manufacture products that require rare earth elements. China also has policies to prevent foreign companies from mining rare earth elements within its borders. Senator Stabenow has been a leading voice to stand up for U.S. businesses and workers by including enforceable measures against currency manipulation in trade agreements and ensuring a level playing field on global trade to help create jobs here at home. For more information on today's ruling, click here.
08.06.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Nearly $7 Million for Michigan State University to Support Fruit and Vegetable Pollination Research Wednesday, August 06, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that Michigan State University will receive a $6.9 million grant to address the decline in honeybees and its impact on crops. Michigan's fruit and vegetable crop production depends on honeybees for pollination, but bee populations have been in decline for years. The grant was funded through the Specialty Crop Research Initiative, which is authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill. "Today's announcement is important news for Michigan fruit and vegetable growers who depend on honeybees for pollination," said Stabenow. "Declining bee populations threaten Michigan's agricultural economy and this support once again recognizes Michigan State University's agricultural leadership."
08.06.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for East Jordan Fire Department Wednesday, August 06, 2014 The East Jordan Fire Department will receive a federal grant to help improve their operations and boost safety in their community, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. East Jordan Fire Department will receive $76,568 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. "Today's announcement is great news for City of East Jordan Fire Department and families in Charlevoix County," Stabenow said. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "This grant will help East Jordan Fire Department carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Operations and Safety program, which helps local fire departments improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
08.06.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Gaines Township Fire Department Wednesday, August 06, 2014 The Gaines Township Fire Department will receive a federal grant to help improve their operations and boost safety in their community, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Gaines Township Fire Department will receive $66,491 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. "Today's announcement is great news for Gaines Township Fire Department and families in Genesee County," Stabenow said. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "This grant will help Gaines Township Fire Department carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Operations and Safety program, which helps local fire departments improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
08.06.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grants for Two U.P. Fire Departments Wednesday, August 06, 2014 Two Upper Peninsula fire departments will receive federal grants to purchase new firefighting vehicles, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Sugar Island Township Fire Department will receive $208,696 and Norway Volunteer Fire Department will receive $237,500 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. "Today's announcement is great news for Sugar Island Township Volunteer Fire Department, City of Norway Fire Department, and families across the Upper Peninsula," Stabenow said. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "These grants will help the fire departments in Norway and Sugar Island Township carry out their vital mission of protecting lives and property in their communities." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Vehicle Acquisition program, which helps local fire departments purchase equipment such as pumpers, aerials, brush trucks, tankers/tenders, rescue vehicles and ambulances. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
08.01.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces that Every Michigan Project Will be Considered for National Conservation Funding Friday, August 01, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that all nine Michigan projects that submitted pre-proposals will move on to the next step to be considered for funding though the new Regional Conservation Partnership Program. Sen. Stabenow and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack visited Bay City in May to launch the national initiative, created in the 2014 Farm Bill, which will protect our Great Lakes and invest in water, land, and wildlife conservation across the country. The Regional Conservation Partnership Program will competitively award funds on an annual basis to conservation projects designed by local partners (including businesses, non-profits, universities, and federal, state and local governments) specifically for their region. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "Today's announcement is an exciting next step for Michigan in the new Regional Conservation Partnership Program. Our Michigan projects bring together a strong group of businesses, non-profits, farmers, and conservation leaders already working hard to protect our water, land, and wildlife habitat for future generations. I will continue to support the great work being done across our state, which will have a lasting impact on the health of our Great Lakes and serve as a national model for what is possible through this historic partnership." Below are all nine Michigan projects advancing to the next step in the decision process (lead applicant in parentheses): • Saginaw Bay Watershed Conservation Partnership to improve the water quality and wildlife habitat in the Saginaw Bay Watershed, which has been negatively impacted by phosphorus and nutrient sediment runoff. (The Nature Conservancy and Michigan Agri-Business Association) • Lake Michigan Fruitbelt Conservation Partnership to address water quality concerns for Michigan's fruit and vegetable growers and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. (Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians)• Tri-State Western Lake Erie Basin Phosphorus Reduction Initiative to help farmers implement conservation practices to mitigate the flow of phosphorus, protecting soil health and water quality as well as wildlife habitat. (Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development with the States of Ohio and Indiana)• Upper Great Lakes Healthy Forests Initiative to help private forestland owners implement best management practices to develop young forest acres. (Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development)• Training Foresters to Enhance the Sustainable Management of Private Forest Land Partnership to train both private and public sector professional foresters to enhance private forest land management across Michigan. (Michigan Department of Natural Resources)• St. Joseph Watershed Conservation Partnership to reduce excessive sediment and phosphorus loading, which has caused significant wetland and wildlife loss in the St. Joseph River watershed. (Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development with the State of Indiana)• Northern Great Lakes Partnership for Improved Regional Conservation to address issues of erosion, water quality, and wildlife habitat on portions of the Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, and Lake Huron watersheds. (Superior Watershed Partnership)• Michigan Agriculture Environmental Assurance Program to help farmers across the state conserve farmland and water and soil quality. (Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development) • Improving Forest Health for Wildlife Resources in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin to improve forest health and habitat management for the recovery of threatened and endangered species. (American Bird Conservancy) The U.S. Department of Agriculture is expected to announce which of these projects will receive funding later this year. USDA will provide $1.2 billion in funding for the Regional Conservation Partnership Program over the next five years and can leverage an additional $1.2 billion from partners for a total of $2.4 billion for conservation. $400 million in USDA funding is available in the first year. Through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, partners propose conservation projects to improve soil health, water quality and water use efficiency, wildlife habitat, and other related natural resources on private lands. In addition, USDA has designated the Great Lakes as one of eight Critical Conservation Areas across the country, which will provide an opportunity for additional funding to address water quality issues. The other areas designated are the Chesapeake Bay Watershed, Mississippi River Basin, Longleaf Pine Range, Columbia River Basin, California Bay Delta, Prairie Grasslands, and the Colorado River Basin. The 2014 Farm Bill is our country's biggest investment in private land conservation and has been called the most significant conservation legislation in generations. Voluntary partnerships between agricultural and conservation groups help farmers conserve soil health, protect water quality, and restore wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes region and across our state.
08.01.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Grant for Grand Valley State University to Support Rural Entrepreneurship Training in Isabella and Bay Counties Friday, August 01, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Grand Valley State University to lead two Rural-Focused Agricultural Innovation and Entrepreneurship training programs in Bay and Isabella Counties. This support, made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Business Enterprise Grant Program, will be used to help bring entrepreneurship workshops to rural communities. "Today's announcement is great news for Grand Valley State University and rural entrepreneurs in Bay and Isabella counties," said Stabenow. "These agricultural innovation workshops will help connect entrepreneurs to vital resources and give them the tools to succeed." "Senator Stabenow, United States Department of Agricultural and Rural Development State Director Jim Turner, and others who have supported this project join us in recognizing the great economic potential in Michigan's agricultural sector," said Grand Valley State University Project Manager Julie Cowie. "This effort offers practical lean startup tools and connections to Michigan's entrepreneur ecosystem to the innovators and entrepreneurs who have much to offer rural economies." Grand Valley State University will receive $30,375 to implement workshops that spur rural enterprise development and job creation in rural communities across Isabella and Bay Counties. These programs will connect entrepreneurs to economic development resources, technology, and start-up training to help them commercialize their products and ideas. Stabenow sent a letter of support in March urging USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack to consider Grand Valley State University's grant application. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
07.31.2014	Senate Passes Bipartisan Veterans Affairs Reform Legislation Measure Will Increase Timely Access to Care, Address Doctor Shortage Thursday, July 31, 2014 The Senate today passed a bipartisan compromise to restore accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs and reduce wait times at VA facilities so veterans can get the health care they deserve. The Veterans' Access to Care Through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014 brings immediate accountability to the VA that will strengthen the Department's ability to fire senior managers and officials responsible for poor performance at VA health facilities. It also takes steps to reduce wait times and clear the backlog, including hiring more doctors and nurses in the VA system and providing expanded options for care for those veterans who live in rural areas or experience excessive wait times. "Through months of hard work, Democrats and Republicans were able to come together to get veterans across the country the health care they need, when they need it" said Stabenow. "No veteran should ever have to wait for months to get a doctor's appointment. This bipartisan legislation will help the VA hire more doctors and other health care professionals to give our brave men and women the high-quality health care they earned. I will continue to work with the community to make sure VA facilities are meeting the highest standards and veterans are getting the best of care." The VA compromise bill provides the Department of Veterans Affairs with $17 billion to expand access to care for veterans in non-VA facilities and rural locations. More specifically, this bill sets aside $5 billion to increase staffing needs at VA facilities and clinics, and $2 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs to lease 27 new medical facilities. The bipartisan measure now heads to President Obama's desk for his signature. For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure that veterans get the care they need and bring veterans' health clinics to Michigan. New clinics have opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Cheboygan County, Clare, and Grayling.
07.31.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Ford Airport Thursday, July 31, 2014 Ford Airport in Dickinson County will receive a federal grant of $867,427 from the U.S. Department of Transportation to purchase snow removal equipment and take other steps that will help improve the airport's ability to keep the runways and taxiways clear during bad weather, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. "Making sure residents, tourists, and business travelers are able to easily travel to and from the Upper Peninsula is vital to the region," Stabenow said. "This support will help ensure that Ford Airport can continue to keep people traveling safely and boost the local economy in Iron Mountain." "Keeping Ford's airfield clear during a U.P. winter requires the right equipment and materials," Levin said. "This funding will help the airport purchase crucial snow removal equipment and make much needed upgrades to the storage buildings. These improvements will help keep Ford Airport operating safely during the winter." The grant will fund a replacement snow removal loader with box plow, blower and broom. In addition, the funds will be used to relocate and enlarge the door for the sand and chemical storage building, improving access to the surface treatments by the snow removal equipment. The grant will also fund insulation and lighting improvements to the snow removal equipment storage building that will better protect the equipment from the elements.
07.31.2014	Stabenow, Levin Lead Great Lakes Senators Urging Action on Asian Carp Threat Thursday, July 31, 2014 Today, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow, vice chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Carl Levin, chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, along with Great Lakes U.S. Senators Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Dan Coats (R-IN), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Rob Portman (R-OH), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Al Franken (D-MN), Bob Casey (D-PA), and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) sent a letter to White House Council on Environmental Quality Asian Carp Director John Goss expressing their continued commitment to practical, immediate solutions to the threat of Asian carp and other invasive species to the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basin. The Senators wrote, "While disagreements about prevention measures remain, the Asian carp threat persists, and urgent action is needed. The immediate path forward should include a set of short- and medium-term actions, which should be able to garner regional consensus more readily to strengthen protection for the Great Lakes...As the Asian Carp Director, we ask for your leadership to help guide a productive dialogue among all impacted stakeholders that includes a focus on practical, immediate solutions with broad support across all impacted stakeholders." The Great Lakes Senators also requested Director Goss's assistance in urging the Chicago Area Waterway System Advisory Committee to make recommendations for short-, medium-, and long-term solutions to safeguard the Great Lakes from Asian carp and other invasive species as soon as possible. The Advisory Committee is currently working with stakeholders in the region to identify solutions acceptable to all. Full text of the letter is below. For a signed copy of the letter, click here. July 31, 2014 Mr. John GossAsian Carp DirectorWhite House Council on Environmental Quality722 Jackson Place, NWWashington, DC 20503 Dear Mr. Goss: We are writing in regard to the Army Corp of Engineers (Army Corps) Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS). As Senators from Great Lakes states, we are committed to protecting these precious natural resources and appreciate the opportunity to engage with you to develop solutions to prevent the spread of Asian carp into these waters. Authorized by Congress in the Water Resources Development Act of 2007, GLMRIS was intended to identify a range of options to prevent the transfer of aquatic nuisance species between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River Basins. As you know, the report released by the Army Corps on January 6, 2014, included several near-term alternatives, as well as more complex, multi-billion dollar, long-term projects, which continue to be debated. While disagreements about prevention measures remain, the Asian carp threat persists, and urgent action is needed. The immediate path forward should include a set of short- and medium-term actions, which should be able to garner regional consensus more readily to strengthen protection for the Great Lakes. To facilitate this effort, we understand the Chicago Area Waterway System Advisory Committee is working with regional stakeholders to identify common ground regarding short-, medium-, and long-term efforts to safeguard the Great Lakes from Asian carp and other invasive species. We look forward to hearing from the Advisory Committee on their recommendations. As the Asian Carp Director, we ask for your leadership to help guide a productive dialogue among all impacted stakeholders that includes a focus on practical, immediate solutions with broad support across all impacted stakeholders. We also ask for your leadership in encouraging the Advisory Committee to make recommendations as soon as possible, in particular regarding the short- and medium-term technologically feasible actions that maintain commercial navigation and recreational boating, preserve the integrity of existing flood control systems, protect water quality, and enjoy broad support. We also ask for your continued support in making progress toward identifying the best long-term solutions. We appreciate the significant role you have played in leading the Asian carp management strategy over the past several years and look forward to continuing to work with you to protect the Great Lakes and the environment. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN) U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL)U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI)U.S. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY)U.S. Senator Al Franken (D-MN)U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN)U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH)U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL)U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI)U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA)U.S. Senator Dan Coats (R-IN)U.S. Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI)U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-OH)U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY)
07.30.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Detroit Fire Department and Richmond-Lenox EMS Ambulance Authority Wednesday, July 30, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Detroit Fire Department to improve fire prevention and the Richmond-Lenox EMS Ambulance Authority for operations and safety. These grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Detroit Fire Department, Richmond-Lenox EMS Ambulance Authority, and families in Southeast Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Our firefighters and first-responders put themselves on the line every day to protect us, so we need to support them," said Senator Levin. "These grants will help Richmond Lenox EMS and the Detroit Fire Department continue their vital mission." "This grant provided by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will ensure the safety and health of our paramedics and EMTs by helping us protect the heroes who risk their lives every day, in fulfillment of our life saving mission," said Richmond-Lenox EMS Ambulance Authority Chief Jeffery White. The Detroit Fire Department will receive $353,864 to increase public safety through fire prevention, and the Richmond Lenox EMS Ambulance Authority will receive $20,250 to improve operations and safety. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.30.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Hudson Township Fire and Rescue Wednesday, July 30, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Hudson Township Fire and Rescue to improve operations and safety. This $68,875 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Today's announcement is great news for Hudson Township Fire and Rescue and families in Otsego County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Our firefighters and first-responders put themselves on the line every day to protect us, so we need to support them," said Levin. "This grant will help the Hudson Township Fire Department continue its vital mission." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.30.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Fire Prevention Grant for the Healthy Homes Coalition of West Michigan Wednesday, July 30, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Healthy Homes Coalition of West Michigan to help increase public safety through fire prevention and preparedness. This $48,719 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Fire Prevention and Safety Program. "Today's announcement is great news families in Kent County," said Stabenow. "Organizations like the Healthy Homes Coalition of West Michigan play a critical role in fire prevention and preparedness, and they rely on this support to keep their communities safe." "Every child deserves to grow up in a safe and secure home," said Levin. "This grant will help the Healthy Homes Coalition of West Michigan bring us closer to that goal." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.30.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Leslie Fire Department to Buy New Vehicle Wednesday, July 30, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Leslie Fire Department to acquire a new vehicle. This $812,250 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Today's announcement is great news for the Leslie Fire Department and families in Ingham County," said Stabenow. "Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." "Our firefighters and first-responders put themselves on the line every day to protect us, so we need to support them," said Levin. "This grant will help the Leslie Fire Department continue its vital mission." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.30.2014	Stabenow Applauds Announcement Advancing Detroit-Windsor Bridge Project Wednesday, July 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today applauded the announcement of an International Authority to oversee construction of the Detroit-Windsor bridge project. The joint bilateral commission will be tasked with solving issues needed to be addressed prior to breaking ground on the New International Trade Crossing. The International Authority will also oversee construction and operation of the bridge in conjunction with the Windsor-Detroit Bridge Authority, which will handle day to day decisions. Senator Stabenow has been a key voice in advancing construction of this project, having recently traveled to Ottawa to discuss the bridge and other issues with Canadian officials, including Transport Minister Lisa Raitt. "The New International Trade Crossing is vital for creating jobs and growing our economy here in Michigan and across the country, and today's announcement brings us one step closer to getting this done," said Stabenow. "With all of the necessary permits already in place, we now have a strong, international authority that will make sure construction moves forward as soon as possible. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Gary Peters and others in our delegation, as well as our excellent partners in Canada, to secure the final funding necessary to break ground on this project without further delay." Expected to be completed in 2020, the New International Trade Crossing would promote bilateral trade and commerce with Canada, significantly increase the flow of goods moving across the border, and create tens of thousands of jobs in Michigan alone. The State of Michigan and the Canadian government signed a construction agreement to build the New International Trade Crossing in June 2012. The agreement required that a bilateral six-member commission be appointed to oversee project construction. It is anticipated the commission will act swiftly on the outstanding issues pertaining to land acquisition and funding for a Customs Plaza in Detroit.
07.30.2014	Senate Republicans Block Legislation to Bring Jobs Back to America, End Tax Giveaway to Corporations Shipping Jobs Overseas Wednesday, July 30, 2014 Senate Republicans today blocked a final vote on the Bring Jobs Home Act, legislation co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow to stop rewarding companies that move jobs overseas and instead create new incentives to bring jobs home. Her legislation would end a tax loophole that currently pays for companies to move jobs overseas, while maintaining the deduction for those bringing jobs home. In addition, it would also provide a 20 percent tax credit to help companies with the cost of bringing jobs back to America. Last week, an overwhelming bipartisan majority of 93 senators voted to move forward on the Bring Jobs Home Act. But today, for the second time since 2012, Senate Republicans filibustered this commonsense legislation. "We need action, not excuses. Today, Senators had a choice between fighting for American workers and communities or fighting to protect a tax giveaway to companies that ship jobs overseas, and Senate Republicans voted against American jobs," Stabenow said. "It's outrageous that, right now, American workers are paying through the tax code to ship their own jobs overseas. We need to close this indefensible loophole and instead start rewarding the companies that are doing the right thing and bringing jobs back to America. In order to have a strong, growing economy that lasts, we need to make things here in America. It's time for my Republican colleagues to start focusing on exporting our products, not our jobs." Over the past decade, 2.4 million American jobs have been shipped overseas, and approximately 21.5 million more jobs are at risk being moved overseas today. Michigan alone could lose an additional 737,000 jobs to offshoring. The Bring Jobs Home Act would strengthen manufacturing and other industrial sectors by encouraging companies to support American workers and move jobs back to Michigan and states across the country. Senator Stabenow's Bring Jobs Home Act: Ends a tax loophole that pays the moving expenses of companies that send jobs overseas. Right now, the cost of moving personnel and components of a company to a new location is defined as a business expense that qualifies for a tax deduction. Senator Stabenow's legislation would keep this deduction in place for companies that bring jobs and business activity back home but businesses would no longer be able to get a tax benefit for shipping jobs overseas. Creates a new tax cut to provide an incentive for companies to bring jobs back to America. Specifically, her initiative would allow companies to qualify for a tax credit equal to 20% of the cost associated with bringing jobs back to the United States.
07.30.2014	Stabenow Statement on Passage of Temporary Highway Funding Measure Wednesday, July 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow made the following statement today after the Senate passed a measure to temporarily fund highway, transit and road safety programs. Senator Stabenow said: "Unlike Republicans in Lansing who adjourned for the summer without addressing Michigan's crumbling roads, Democrats and Republicans in Congress were able to come together to pass a short-term road funding bill. While we need to do much more to fix our nation's crumbling infrastructure and provide a long-term source of funding, today's vote shows that a little compromise can go a long way." The Senate-passed version of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 will extend funding of transportation programs through December 20, 2014. Additionally, this bill directs $8.1 billion to the Highway Trust Fund which becomes insolvent on September 1, 2014.
07.29.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Holds Hearing on Successes, Shortcomings of U.S.-Korea Trade Agreement Tuesday, July 29, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness, today considered lessons learned during the first two years of the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. Stabenow led a Subcommittee hearing in order to examine how our Free Trade Agreement with Korea has expanded opportunities for U.S. businesses, farmers, and workers, while also identifying some of the key obstacles that have prevented others from competing on a truly level playing field. This is Senator Stabenow's first hearing as Chairwoman of the Subcommittee. "I am hopeful that the real-world results can be brought into line with the expectations the U.S. had of Korea at the outset," said Stabenow. "But, to achieve these results, we must have candid conversations about what's working and what's not." "We know this: If American workers and businesses can compete on a level playing field, they will succeed in markets around the world, and our American middle class will thrive," added Stabenow. "But the competition must be fair. The playing field must be level. Too often in recent years, our workers and businesses have found themselves on a playing field that was tilted in one direction, littered with rocks and holes that could trip them up." March 15, 2014, marked the two-year anniversary of entry into the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. The agreement is the most commercially significant free trade agreement for the U.S. in two decades and the first U.S. Free Trade Agreement with a North Asian trading partner. The agreement also serves as a model for future trade agreements and underscores America's commitment to the Asia-Pacific region. Witnesses who testified at today's hearing include Stephen E. Biegun, Vice President, International Governmental Affairs, Ford Motor Company; Shawna Morris, Vice President, Trade Policy, National Milk Producers Federation & U.S. Dairy Export Council; Sean Murphy, Vice President & Counsel, Qualcomm, San Diego, CA; and, Michael Rue, Rue & Forsman Ranch, Inc., on behalf of USA Rice Federation, Rio Oso, CA. An archived webcast of today's hearing can be viewed on the Committee's website at http://finance.senate.gov. Additional materials, including testimony, can be found on the hearing page here. Below are Chairwoman Stabenow's opening remarks, as prepared for delivery. Opening Remarks as Prepared for DeliveryChairwoman Debbie StabenowU.S. Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness Good afternoon. The Senate Finance Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs and Global Competitiveness will now come to order. Thank you all for being here as we consider the lessons we've learned during the first two years of our free trade agreement with Korea. Because this is my first hearing as Chair of the Subcommittee, I'd like to begin by sharing my core beliefs on international trade. Michigan is a state where we make things and grow things. I grew up with families whose quality of life was shaped in part by their ability to sell products in foreign markets. These products sold around the world, because the people who made the cars or tilled the soil were good at it. This hard work powered the growth of our middle class in Michigan, just as it powered the growth of the middle class throughout America. We know this: If American workers and businesses can compete on a level playing field, they will succeed in markets around the world, and our American middle class will thrive.Within this subcommittee, we have the opportunity to explore new markets on behalf of these workers and the businesses that employ them. And in exchange for these opportunities, we allow products made in foreign countries to compete in the U.S. We are not afraid of competition. We welcome it! But the competition must be fair. The playing field must be level. Too often in recent years, our workers and businesses have found themselves on a playing field that was tilted in one direction, littered with rocks and holes that could trip them up. We must resist being drawn into a race to the bottom on international trade. Trade agreements must be about creating opportunities to grow a middle class around the world, not lose our middle class in America. Fortunately, the Republic of Korea is a trusted ally and a willing trading partner. I am grateful to Korean leaders for working with us when the Obama administration asked for better terms on behalf of automakers. When our nation entered into this agreement in March 2012, I was as optimistic as the administration and the business community that removing trade barriers would spur job growth and generate higher earnings for our workers. I'm sure Korea had the same hopes. But for trade deals to thrive, they must be a win-win for both sides. So far KORUS has fallen short of our hopes. The agreement aimed to narrow the trade deficit between the U.S. and Korea. Instead, the trade deficit has gone in the wrong direction. Even if you look at the most conservative numbers, that deficit has grown. And if you look at the deficit in goods - in the things we make - it has increased by nearly 50 percent. While our dairy producers have reaped many benefits through the trade agreement, they continue to face challenges when it comes to certain products that are blocked from the market based on geographical indications, and we will hear more from today's panel about those issues. The agreement aimed to open Korea's markets to American automakers. But agreeing to phase-out tariffs on U.S.-made automobiles hasn't been enough. Due to non-tariff barriers, Korea remains one of the most closed auto markets in the world. Given our strong alliance with the Republic of Korea, I am hopeful that the expectations we had at the outset will be matched by real-world results. But, to achieve these results, we must have candid conversations about what's working and what's not. I also believe that it is very important that we apply what we learn here to the major international trade agreements that are actively being negotiated right now. We also need to recognize that we have other tools for strengthening our nation's position in the international economy. By improving our infrastructure, our goods and services can move more smoothly. By reforming the tax code we can give companies incentives to keep jobs in America. By offering job training to American workers we can equip them for 21st Century markets. And by strengthening U.S. trade law we can defend our companies against nations that manipulate their currency. In international trade, it's our responsibility to drive a tough, fair bargain with foreign countries who seek access to American markets. There must be no doubt that we will be exporting our nation's products, not our jobs. I have every confidence that, with smart trade policies, we will be successful.
07.28.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Applauds Selection of Michigan Members to National Fruit and Vegetable Industry Advisory Committee Monday, July 28, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the selection of Diane Smith, Executive Director of the Michigan Apple Committee, and Helen Dietrich of Ridgeview Orchards, to USDA's Fruit and Vegetable Industry Advisory Committee. Overseen by the Agricultural Marketing Service, the Committee is comprised of 25 members and meets twice a year to develop recommendations for the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture on issues affecting our country's produce industry. Michigan is a national leader in agricultural diversity second only to California. "I am so happy Diane and Helen have been appointed to serve on USDA's Fruit and Vegetable Industry Advisory Committee," said Stabenow. "From apples, to blueberries, to asparagus, Michigan is a national leader in fruit and vegetable production. Having two women serve on this national committee who understand Michigan's unique and diverse agricultural needs will be critical to the continued success of our fruit and vegetable industry, as well as the success of our local food systems and nutrition programs." Diane has served in Michigan's apple industry for over 17 years and works for the state's 850 apple growers as Executive Director of the Michigan Apple Committee. Helen's family co-owns and operates Ridgeview Orchards in Conklin where they encourage agriculture insourcing by growing apple slices for McDonald's Happy Meals at store locations in Michigan. Members of the Fruit and Vegetable Industry Advisory Committee are nominated by their peers and represent all areas of the produce industry. Each member contributes a variety of experiences and perspectives to help USDA identify the effectiveness of its programs and services, including those found in the 2014 Farm Bill.
07.24.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Three New Buses to Improve Service Along Washtenaw Avenue Thursday, July 24, 2014 The Ann Arbor Transportation Authority will receive $867,508 to purchase three new 40-foot expansion buses to help increase service along the Washtenaw Avenue corridor between Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The grant from the Federal Transit Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation is the final installment of a grant first announced in 2011 as part of the State of Good Repair Program. The program supports bus fleets and bus facilities and selects projects on a competitive basis. "Today's announcement is great news for Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti commuters," said Stabenow. "Additional buses will help make sure that commuters have a reliable and efficient way to get to work and help visitors see and experience more of the community." "Reliable transportation is essential to a local economy," Levin said. "This grant will help ensure Washtenaw County businesses and workers can depend on a reliable public transit system." In October 2011, the Transportation Department selected Ann Arbor Transportation Authority's Re-Imagine Washtenaw project to receive $2,625,000 to increase transit service on Washtenaw Avenue. Selected on a competitive basis, Re-Imagine Washtenaw is a program jointly developed by the four jurisdictions in the corridor (the city of Ann Arbor, the city of Ypsilanti, Pittsfield Township and Ypsilanti Township), the transit operator, the Michigan Department of Transportation and Washtenaw County. As part of this effort, the project purchased clean diesel buses with hybrid-electric components to increase bus service in this corridor. Today's announcement for the purchase of three extension buses uses the remaining balance of the award.
07.23.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Says Michigan Setting National Example of Success in Feeding Healthy Meals to Children Wednesday, July 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today said that school administrators, parents, community leaders and other stakeholders must work together to address challenges in providing healthy meals to children in schools, and pointed to Michigan schools as an example where collaboration is making a difference. Stabenow invited Betti Wiggins, Executive Director of Detroit Public Schools Office of School Nutrition, to testify before her Committee as part of a larger effort to update child nutrition laws. Chairwoman Stabenow said recent studies are showing that healthier, improved meal options are being well received by school children in Michigan and across the country, and efforts like farm-to-school gardens are teaching kids the importance of where their food comes from. "I have had the opportunity to visit many schools in Michigan and I have been impressed to see elementary school students enjoying broccoli and pineapple from salad bars, and students learning about where their food comes from through farm-to-school efforts," Stabenow said. "We must continue working together to address challenges in providing healthy meals in schools; reversing course is not an option because the health of our children is directly linked to the health of our economy, security, and long-term sustainability not just in Michigan, but across the country." Under Betti Wiggins' leadership, Detroit Public Schools are working together with food distributors, farmers and other community leaders, and they are succeeding in meeting the challenges of serving high quality meals to approximately 50,000 school children every day. "Both our breakfast and lunch menus include a healthy array of fresh vegetables and fruits, whole grains, lean proteins, 100 percent fruit juices and low‐fat milk," Wiggins said. "We also offer free healthy suppers for numerous at‐risk students through our after‐school programs." "I am extremely proud of what Betti and her team are doing in Detroit," added Stabenow. "Their work demonstrates how we can help our schools rise to the challenge of feeding our nation's children." Today's hearing is part of an ongoing effort to update and improve child nutrition laws, which were last updated in 2010's Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act.
07.23.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Secord Township Fire and Rescue Wednesday, July 23, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Secord Township Fire and Rescue to improve operations and safety. This $142,833 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Today's announcement is great news for the Secord Township Fire and Rescue and families in Gladwin County. Our first responders risk their lives to keep our families safe, and they rely on these resources to do their jobs safely." Senator Levin said, "Every day, communities depend on their local fire department to respond to fires and other emergencies. This grant will support Secord Township Fire and Rescue in their difficult and dangerous work." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.23.2014	Senate Moves Forward on Legislation to Bring Jobs Back to America, End Tax Giveaway to Corporations Shipping Jobs Overseas Wednesday, July 23, 2014 The Senate voted today to move forward with the Bring Jobs Home Act, legislation co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow to stop rewarding companies that move jobs overseas and instead create new incentives to bring jobs home. Her legislation would end a tax loophole that currently pays for companies to move jobs overseas. It would also provide a 20 percent tax credit to help companies with the cost of bringing jobs back to America. A bipartisan majority of senators voted to move forward on the Bring Jobs Home Act. "Today's bipartisan vote is an important first step," Stabenow said. "It's outrageous that, right now, American workers are paying through the tax code to ship their own jobs overseas. We need to close this indefensible loophole and instead start rewarding the companies that are doing the right thing and bringing jobs back to America. Now that the Senate has voted on a bipartisan basis to move forward on this vital legislation, it should not be dragged down by partisan distractions and extraneous items, something that has happened all too often in recent months. We should debate and pass the Bring Jobs Home Act without delay." Over the past decade, 2.4 million American jobs have been shipped overseas, and approximately 21.5 million more jobs are at risk being moved overseas today. Michigan alone could lose an additional 737,000 jobs to offshoring. The Bring Jobs Home Act would strengthen manufacturing and other industrial sectors by encouraging companies to support American workers and move jobs back to Michigan and states across the country. Senator Stabenow's Bring Jobs Home Act: Ends a tax loophole that pays the moving expenses of companies that send jobs overseas. Right now, the cost of moving personnel and components of a company to a new location is defined as a business expense that qualifies for a tax deduction. Senator Stabenow's legislation would keep this deduction in place for companies that bring jobs and business activity back home but businesses would no longer be able to get a tax benefit for shipping jobs overseas. Creates a new tax cut to provide an incentive for companies to bring jobs back to America. Specifically, her initiative would allow companies to qualify for a tax credit equal to 20% of the cost associated with bringing jobs back to the United States.
07.22.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Chippewa County International Airport Runway Rehabilitation Tuesday, July 22, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Chippewa County International Airport to rehabilitate its runway. The $1,380,000 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from the Upper Peninsula is vital to the local economy," said Stabenow. "This support will help ensure that the airport can continue to keep people travelling safely and increase business activity in the region." Senator Levin said: "Chippewa County International serves as a valuable gateway to Sault Ste. Marie and the eastern U.P.," Levin said. "This federal funding will help the airport with critical runway improvements that will benefit travelers, businesses and workers in Sault Ste. Marie and surrounding communities." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
07.22.2014	Senate to Vote Tomorrow on Legislation Co-Authored by Senator Stabenow to Bring Jobs Back to America Tuesday, July 22, 2014 The Senate will vote tomorrow on legislation co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow to stop rewarding companies that move jobs overseas and instead create new incentives to bring jobs home. The Bring Jobs Home Act, introduced by Senator Stabenow, Senator John Walsh, Senator Mark Pryor and others, ends a tax loophole for companies that move jobs overseas and cuts taxes for companies that bring jobs back to America from another country. "It's outrageous that workers are paying to ship their own jobs overseas through the tax code," Stabenow said. "We should be rewarding companies that are bringing jobs home. This is about jobs. Senators Walsh, Pryor, and I hope that all of our colleagues, regardless of party, will join our fight to give every American worker a fair shot to get ahead." Earlier today, Stabenow was joined at a press conference in support of her legislation by Senators Pryor, Schumer, Cardin, Casey, and Whitehouse, as well as workers from the UAW and United Steelworkers unions. The Bring Jobs Home Act is also supported by AFL-CIO; Communications Workers of America; the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees; the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), the Teamsters; and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. In 2012, her legislation garnered the support of a bipartisan majority of Senators, but the bill was blocked by a Republican filibuster. Senator Stabenow's Bring Jobs Home Act: Ends a tax loophole that pays the moving expense of companies that send jobs overseas. Right now, the cost of moving personnel and components of a company to a new location is defined as a business expense that qualifies for a tax deduction. Senator Stabenow's legislation will keep this deduction in place for companies that bring jobs and business activity back home but businesses would no longer be able to get a tax benefit for shipping jobs overseas. Creates a new tax cut to provide an incentive for companies to bring jobs back to America. Specifically, her initiative will allow companies to qualify for a tax credit equal to 20% of the cost associated with bringing jobs back to the United States.
07.21.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Farmers’ Market in Mt. Pleasant Monday, July 21, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan's farmers' market in Mt. Pleasant. This support, made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Business Enterprise Grant Program, will be used to help construct a farmers' market pavilion. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Farmers' markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers and ranchers, boosting the local economy and creating jobs," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is great news and will help generate more economic activity in Isabella County." The Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan will receive $200,000 to help expand the city's farmers' market by constructing a pavilion to increase access to local foods and create approximately 33 jobs. The market features products made and grown by members of the tribe and community. For more information here, click here. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
07.21.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Disaster Relief for Fruit Growers Monday, July 21, 2014 Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that many Michigan fruit growers whose farms were devastated by extreme weather conditions in 2012 will now be able to apply for disaster relief from the USDA. The new provisions in the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP), authored by Chairwoman Stabenow as part of the 2014 Farm Bill, will extend relief to growers who suffered from disasters but did not have access to crop insurance. Chairwoman Stabenow led the effort to create new risk management tools and level the playing field for fruit and vegetable growers in the 2014 Farm Bill by including the new disaster assistance provisions in NAP, as well as creating new crop insurance options for fruits and vegetables for the first time ever. "Family farms and businesses shouldn't have to go under because of a few days of bad weather," Chairwoman Stabenow said. "That's why it was so crucial when writing the 2014 Farm Bill to make sure that growers of all crops have access to relief to keep their farms running. "Frosts and freezes in 2012 destroyed crops like cherries and apples across Michigan, leaving so many fruit growers who did not have access to crop insurance struggling to keep family farms from going under. I'm proud that these hard working farmers will finally be able to access much-needed disaster relief to help keep their businesses operating, so they can continue growing Michigan's economy." Chairwoman Stabenow led the effort to write and pass the 2014 Farm Bill, which was signed into law by the president in Michigan in February. The bill created new opportunities for Michigan's fruit and vegetable growers to manage risk and protect their businesses against circumstances beyond their control, like the devastating weather conditions that wiped out crops across Michigan in 2012. "There's no question Michigan cherry growers have seen their share of losses over the last couple of years, with many losing over 90 percent of their crop," said Phil Korson, Executive Director of the Michigan Cherry Marketing Institute. "Thanks to Chairwoman Stabenow's tenacious leadership, the 2014 Farm Bill provides cherry growers with much-needed assistance to help families and farming communities cope with the devastating losses of 2012 - and better crop insurance options that will help protect our growers in future years." "The Michigan Apple Industry is so thankful for the important work Chairwoman Stabenow has done in building the 2014 Farm Bill in a way that supports Michigan's economy and agriculture," said Diane Smith, Executive Director of the Michigan Apple Committee. "Many apple growers were devastated by weather in the 2012 crop year and had no access to crop insurance to manage risk, like other traditional crops do. Sen. Stabenow's leadership will now help growers recover from the losses suffered in 2012, and continue growing their businesses and Michigan's agriculture economy." "Senator Stabenow has been tireless in her support of Michigan's fruit and vegetable growers, and her work in the 2014 Farm Bill underscores that commitment," said Jim Byrum, President of the Michigan Agri-Business Association. "Fruit and vegetable growers affected by frosts and freezes had nowhere to turn when weather disaster struck in 2012. But Stabenow led the effort to make sure they weren't left in the cold, and now our growers will have access to assistance that will help to save their businesses from closing, and help to strengthen Michigan's economy." Eligible producers in 82 Michigan counties who experienced losses in 2012 due to frost or freeze, and who did not have access to crop insurance, will be able to apply for assistance beginning tomorrow July 22 through their local Farm Service Agency office. The application period will end September 22, 2014. A list of FSA field offices can be accessed on USDA's website here. For more information about the enrollment process and other details about the NAP program, please visit USDA's website here. For more information about the 2014 Farm Bill's disaster assistance and risk management programs, please visit here.
07.18.2014	Senate to Vote on Legislation Co-Authored by Senator Stabenow to Bring Jobs Back to America Friday, July 18, 2014 The Senate will vote on legislation next week co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow to stop rewarding companies that move jobs overseas and instead create an incentive to bring jobs home. The Bring Jobs Home Act, introduced by Senator Stabenow, Senator John Walsh, Senator Mark Pryor and others, ends a tax loophole for companies that move jobs overseas and cuts taxes for companies that bring jobs back to America from another country. "It's outrageous that workers are paying to ship their own jobs overseas through the tax code," Stabenow said. "We should be rewarding companies that are bringing jobs home. This is about jobs. Senators Walsh, Pryor, and I hope that all of our colleagues, regardless of party, will join our fight to give every American worker a fair shot to get ahead." In 2012, her legislation garnered the support of a bipartisan majority of Senators, but the bill was blocked by a Republican filibuster. Senator Stabenow's Bring Jobs Home Act: Ends a tax loophole that pays the moving expense of companies that send jobs overseas. Right now, the cost of moving personnel and components of a company to a new location is defined as a business expense that qualifies for a tax deduction. Senator Stabenow's legislation will keep this deduction in place for companies that bring jobs and business activity back home but businesses would no longer be able to get a tax benefit for shipping jobs overseas. Creates a new tax cut to provide an incentive for companies to bring jobs back to America. Specifically, her initiative will allow companies to qualify for a tax credit equal to 20% of the cost associated with bringing jobs back to the United States
07.16.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Michigan Bureau of Fire Services Wednesday, July 16, 2014 The Michigan Bureau of Fire Services in Lansing will receive a federal grant from the Department of Homeland Security to help increase public safety through training activities for emergency personnel, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The Fire Fighter Training Division of the bureau will receive a $425,000 grant from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Our firefighters provide courageous services all across Michigan," Stabenow said. "This grant will help make sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "Top-notch training is essential for them to succeed in their vital mission of protecting lives and property in their communities. Fire departments across Michigan will benefit from the training opportunities this grant will help to provide." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the State Fire Training Academies program, which helps states enhance public safety through activities such as training for emergency personnel, efforts to improve interoperability, and acquiring firefighting vehicles and equipment for training purposes. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
07.16.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Star Township Fire Department Wednesday, July 16, 2014 Star Township Fire Department will receive a federal grant to help improve its operations and boost safety in the community, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The department will receive $33,345 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. "Across Northern Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Alba," Stabenow said. "This grant will help make sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "This grant will help Star Township Fire Department carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Operations and Safety program, which helps local fire departments improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
07.16.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grants for Utica and Bloomfield Township Fire Departments Wednesday, July 16, 2014 The fire departments in Bloomfield Township and Utica will each receive a federal grant to help improve their operations and boost safety in their communities, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Utica Fire Department will receive $46,550 and Bloomfield Township Fire Department will receive $121,232 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. "Across Southeast Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like the City of Utica and Bloomfield Township," Stabenow said. "These grants help make sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." "Firefighters and emergency medical personnel stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "These grants will help the fire departments in Utica and Bloomfield Township carry out their vital mission of protecting lives and property in their communities." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Operations and Safety program, which helps local fire departments improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
07.16.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Fire Prevention Grant for Grand Rapids Fire Department Wednesday, July 16, 2014 The Grand Rapids Fire Department will receive a federal grant from the Department of Homeland Security to help increase public safety through fire prevention activities, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The department will receive a $211,850 grant from the Assistance to Firefighters Fire Prevention and Safety Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Across West Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Grand Rapids," Stabenow said. "This grant will help make sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." "Firefighters not only fight fires, they work to prevent fires in the first place," Levin said. "This grant will help the Grand Rapids Fire Department carry out its vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community by focusing on activities that will help prevent fires." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Fire Prevention and Safety Grant program, which helps local fire departments enhance public safety through activities such as fire prevention education and awareness, code enforcement, and fire and arson investigation. Some examples of education and awareness programs would include smoke alarm installations and home safety inspections; code enforcement programs would include increasing awareness of building codes; fire and arson investigations would include support to help fire departments investigate every fire. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
07.16.2014	Bill to Prevent Discrimination Against Women, Guarantee Affordable Access to Contraception Blocked by Republicans Wednesday, July 16, 2014 Senate Republicans today filibustered the Protect Women's Health from Corporate Interference Act, co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, which would protect health care benefits guaranteed by law and prevent employers from interfering in personal health care decisions. The legislation came in response to the U.S. Supreme Court's Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Inc. decision, which granted for-profit corporations the right to deny women insurance coverage for any form of contraception that their employer objects to. "Employers shouldn't be able to dictate personal health care decisions about what's best for a woman and her family," said Stabenow. "Unfortunately, because of today's vote and the Supreme Court's stunning and misguided decision in the Hobby Lobby case, that's exactly what will now happen to women across Michigan and across our country. Women, many of whom are breadwinners for their families, should not be asked to pay more for their basic health care. I will keep fighting to make sure that everyone receives the comprehensive health care benefits that are guaranteed by law." As a result of comprehensive preventive care guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act, 24 million more prescriptions for oral contraceptives were filled with no co-pay in 2013 than in 2012. In Michigan alone, 901,000 women have benefited from expanded access to preventive services like birth control.
07.10.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Garfield Township to Buy New Fire Truck Thursday, July 10, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Garfield Township in Clare County. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant and Loan programs, which fund critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $425,000 loan and $25,000 grant will be used to help buy a new fire truck for the community. "Our first responders provide invaluable services in Garfield Township and to communities throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
07.09.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Boyne City Ambulance Wednesday, July 09, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Boyne City Ambulance to acquire a new vehicle. The $139,650 grant comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across Michigan, our firefighters and EMTs provide courageous service to communities like Boyne City. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "Firefighters and paramedics stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies. This grant will help the EMS Department of Boyne City purchase a new vehicle and support them in their vital mission of protecting lives in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is a part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.09.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Two Flint-Saginaw Area Fire Departments to Improve Operations and Safety Wednesday, July 09, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Kenockee Township and Albee Township Fire Departments to improve their operations and boost safety in their communities. The grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across Southeast Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Kenockee and Albee townships. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "Firefighters stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies. These grants will support the firefighters of Kenockee Township and Albee Township in their vital mission of protecting lives and property in their communities." The Kenockee Township Fire Department will receive $123,025 and the Albee Township Volunteer Fire Department will receive $21,518. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.09.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Two West Michigan Fire Departments to Buy New Vehicles Wednesday, July 09, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Pavilion Township and Alpine Township Fire Departments to acquire new vehicles. The grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across West Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Pavilion and Alpine townships. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "Firefighters stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies. These grants to purchase new vehicles will help Pavilion Township and Alpine Township in their vital mission of protecting lives and property in their communities." The Pavilion Township Fire Department will receive $209,000 and the Alpine Township Fire Department will receive $223,250. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
07.08.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce More than $1.1 Million for Michigan’s Public Lands Tuesday, July 08, 2014 Michigan will receive more than $1.1 million for outdoor recreation and conservation projects from the Land and Water Conservation Fund at the Interior Department, Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. "Our beautiful public lands, parks and waterways offer unparalleled recreational opportunities like hunting, fishing, and snowmobiling," Stabenow said. "These activities are not only part of our way of life, but they are critical to our economy. This support will allow more Michigan families and tourists to enjoy our great outdoors." "From its lakes and streams to its forests and meadows to its beaches and trails, Michigan is rich in natural gifts," Levin said. "Our land and waters are precious, and this funding will help our state make those treasures available for public enjoyment now and for generations to come." More than $43 million from the Land and Water Conservation Fund will be distributed to all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S. territories. Michigan's Department of Natural Resources will receive $1,126,519, which it can use for recreation planning, acquisition of lands and waters, and enhancement of facilities to enable more people to enjoy the outdoors. Levin and Stabenow are cosponsors of S. 338, the Land and Water Conservation Authorization and Funding Act of 2013, which would establish full and permanent funding of $900 million for the Land and Water Conservation Fund. In addition, the legislation would require at least 1.5% of the funding be used for projects that improve access to federal land for hunting, fishing and other recreational purposes. Revenues for the Land and Water Conservation Fund come primarily from federal oil and gas leases on the Outer Continental Shelf. Since Congress established the Land and Water Conservation Fund in 1964, more than $4 billion has been allocated to state and local governments, and Michigan has received more than $131 million.
07.07.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Hartford Farmers’ Market, Establishment of “Food Hub” in Muskegon Monday, July 07, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support to help expand a farmers' market in the City of Hartford and fund a feasibility study to determine the viability of a "food hub" in Muskegon. These grants are made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Business Enterprise Grant Program. "Farmers' markets and food hubs connect families and small businesses with local farmers and ranchers, boosting the local economy and creating jobs while providing consumers with more healthy food options," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is great news for West Michigan farmers, businesses, and families who will have better access to fresh foods." The City of Hartford will receive $20,000 to help expand the city's farmers' market and extend market hours. The Community Foundation for Muskegon County will receive $30,375 to fund a feasibility study for the establishment of a "food hub" in Muskegon that would help provide nutritious and fresh foods to communities in Muskegon, Ottawa, Oceana and Newaygo Counties. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
07.07.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for the Village of Port Austin Farmers’ Market Monday, July 07, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Village of Port Austin farmers' market. This grant, made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Business Enterprise Grant Program, will be used to help establish additional rental units and encourage local businesses to sell their products. "When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Farmers' markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers and ranchers, boosting the local economy and creating jobs," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is great news and will help generate more economic activity in Port Austin." The Village of Port Austin will receive $45,000 to help expand the city's farmers' market by establishing pop-up rental units that look like real shops to encourage businesses to sell their products. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
07.02.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Kingston Fire Department Wednesday, July 02, 2014 Kingston Fire Department will receive a federal grant to help improve their operations and boost safety in their community, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The department will receive $106,400 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Kingston," Stabenow said. "This grant will help make sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." "Every day, first responders in Kingston stand ready to protect lives and property in their community," Levin said. "This grant will help support them in in their difficult and dangerous work." The Assistance to Firefighters Program allows local fire agencies to compete for grants to buy new emergency vehicles or to improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
07.02.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grants for Five Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Wednesday, July 02, 2014 Five Southeast Michigan fire departments will receive federal grants to help improve their operations and boost safety in their communities, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Fire departments in West Bloomfield Township, Bruce Township, Sterling Heights, Dearborn Heights and Pittsfield Charter Township will receive support from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters program. "Our firefighters provide courageous service to communities across Southeast Michigan," Stabenow said. "These grants will help make sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." "Every day, local firefighters make enormous efforts and sacrifices to protect lives and property in their communities," Levin said. "These grants will help support them in their difficult and dangerous work." The FEMA grants are being awarded to: West Bloomfield Township Fire Department in Oakland County will receive $276,359 to improve operations and safety; Bruce Township Fire Department in Macomb County will receive a $237,500 grant for vehicle acquisition; Sterling Heights Fire Department in Macomb County will receive $193,986 to improve operations and safety; Dearborn Heights Fire Department in Wayne County will receive $507,060 to improve operations and safety; Pittsfield Charter Township Fire Department in Washtenaw County will receive a $257,400 operations and safety grant. The Assistance to Firefighters Program allows local fire agencies to compete for grants to buy new emergency vehicles or to improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
07.01.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Attends Grand Opening of Marrone Bio Innovations Michigan Manufacturing Facility in Bangor Tuesday, July 01, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, today participated in a ribbon cutting ceremony and grand opening of the Marrone Michigan Manufacturing facility in Bangor. Sen. Stabenow strongly urged Marrone Bio Innovations Inc. (MBI), which is headquartered in California, to come to Michigan and invest in the new biobased manufacturing plant in Bangor. The state-of-the-art facility is expected to create at least 50 new jobs in the region. Recently, MBI was awarded a $10 million loan by Five Star Bank, backed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan program. The loan will help MBI expand capacity and meet increased sales projections at its Bangor facility. "Today's grand opening of the Marrone Michigan Manufacturing facility is great news for Southwest Michigan and our entire state," said Sen. Stabenow. "We know how to grow things and make things, so it's no surprise that MBI chose to invest right here in Michigan. It's exciting to be back at MBI and see new biobased products being manufactured that are supporting new jobs, helping our farmers, and protecting our Great lakes." MBI is a leader in natural pest management products, or biobased pesticides, for the agriculture and water treatment markets. MBI will manufacture innovative products in Michigan to protect fruits and vegetables from pests and disease and to control invasive zebra and quagga mussels, which have been a serious problem in the Great Lakes. Biobased manufacturing, using home-grown agriculture crops instead of petroleum-based chemicals to make products, is an industry creating jobs across Michigan. Senator Stabenow's bipartisan Farm Bill, signed into law by President Obama in Michigan, strengthens support for biobased manufacturing. The Farm Bill also provides significant resources for rural development initiatives, including much-needed capital to support businesses in rural communities. For more information on the Farm Bill, click here.
06.30.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement on Supreme Court Ruling in the Hobby Lobby Case Monday, June 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling in the Hobby Lobby case: "Today's stunning decision joins a long list of misguided and disappointing rulings by the Supreme Court's activist conservative majority. Your health care decisions should be made by you and your doctor, not by your employer. Corporations should not be given the legal status of ‘people.' And they should not be allowed to deny their employees access to essential health care services - including birth control."
06.27.2014	Senator Stabenow Applauds Announcement of Construction Beginning on the M-1 Rail Project Friday, June 27, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today applauded the announcement that major construction on the M-1 Rail project will begin the week of July 28. M-1 Rail is a public-private partnership to build a 3.3-mile streetcar that will run along the Woodward corridor from downtown to the New Center area of Detroit, boosting economic development in Southeast Michigan and creating thousands of jobs. "Today's announcement is great news for our economy and the future of Detroit," said Stabenow. "Getting the M-1 Rail up and running is just the beginning of a major economic boost for the region. The project will help attract new businesses and investment to Detroit and create thousands of new jobs. This public-private partnership is just one example of how local business and community leaders are investing in the future of Detroit." Senator Stabenow helped secure federal funding for M-1 Rail and has worked closely with business and community leaders, philanthropic partners, Wayne State University and others on the project. The 3.3-mile streetcar route will include 11 stations and provide links among key destinations along Woodward Avenue. It will also provide an energy efficient transportation alternative and reduce traffic congestion and parking demand along the corridor. A one-way trip will take approximately 15 minutes depending on the time of day.
06.25.2014	Senator Stabenow Appointed Vice Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force Wednesday, June 25, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today was appointed as a Vice Chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, which is a bipartisan organization that works to protect the Great Lakes' ecosystem and develop the region's economy. Sens. Stabenow and Rob Portman (R-Ohio) were appointed to the newly created positions and will serve with Co-Chairs Sens. Carl Levin and Mark Kirk (R-Ill.). "For families in Michigan, the Great Lakes are central to our economy and our way of life," said Stabenow. "They contribute billions to our economy, support thousands of jobs, and are a priceless natural resource for Michigan and the entire country. I am honored to be named a Vice Chair to ensure that Michigan continues to have a strong voice on the Great Lakes Task Force as we work together to protect the Great Lakes for future generations." The Senate Great Lakes Task Force was founded in the mid-1980s and is associated with the Northeast-Midwest Institute. The organization has previously focused on projects like securing funding for dredging and preventing the spread of invasive species like Asian carp. For years, Sen. Stabenow has made protecting the Great Lakes a top priority. She authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act with Congressman Dave Camp, which passed in 2012, to require the Army Corps to expedite the completion of its report on possible strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes.Just last month, Sen. Stabenow was in Bay City to announce the launch of the Regional Conservation Partnership Program created in her bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill, to bring together public-private partnerships to protect and conserve the Great Lakes. Thanks to her leadership, the Great Lakes were designated as one of eight Critical Conservation Areas.
06.25.2014	Senate Passes Measure to Improve Job Training, Give Workers Right Skills for New Jobs Wednesday, June 25, 2014 The U.S. Senate today passed a measure supported by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow to help train workers for new high-skilled jobs. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act includes many provisions championed by Sen. Stabenow, including designing worker training based on the requirements for jobs in high-growth sectors, strengthening youth training programs and increasing accountability to ensure that taxpayer dollars are being spent responsibly. Additionally, the legislation reduces red tape, improves oversight, and gives local agencies more flexibility to meet the needs of local employers and job seekers. "At a time when millions of Americans are looking for a fair shot to find good-paying jobs, I hear from businesses across Michigan that they are struggling to find qualified workers for new positions," said Senator Stabenow. "Michigan workers can compete with anyone in the world, but they need the right skills and training opportunities to match the needs of local businesses. This bill will help Michigan workers get the training they need to land a good-paying job and build a better life for their families." Even with thousands of Michigan residents looking for work, businesses report that they would like to hire but can't find workers with the right skills to fit the available jobs. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act streamlines workforce development resources by eliminating 15 duplicative programs. This makes job training more efficient and responsive so that American workers can get training for jobs that are right for them and right for the economy.
06.25.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grants for Fire Departments in Unadilla Township, Putnam Township and Eaton Rapids Township Wednesday, June 25, 2014 U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today that three Michigan fire departments will receive federal grants to help boost safety in their communities. Fire agencies in Unadilla, Putnam and Eaton Rapids townships will receive the grants. "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to our local communities," Stabenow said. "This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." "Local firefighters make enormous efforts and sacrifices to protect their communities," Levin said. "The federal grants help meet our responsibilities to support them in their difficult and dangerous work." The grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters program go to: • Unadilla Township Fire Department in Livingston County, which will get a $138,938 grant for vehicle acquisition; • Putnam Township Fire Department, also in Livingston County, which will receive a $91,328 grant to improve operations and safety; and • Eaton Rapids Township Fire Department in Eaton County, which will receive a $100,934 operations and safety grant. The Assistance to Firefighters Program allows local fire agencies to compete for grants to buy new emergency vehicles or to improve operations and safety by providing firefighter training or personal protective equipment, modifying existing facilities or buying supplies. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
06.24.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Two West Michigan Airports Tuesday, June 24, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Muskegon County Airport and the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport. The funding for the Muskegon County Airport will be used to conduct research and to expand and rehabilitate the runway apron. The funding for the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport will be used to acquire new land for development, extend the taxiway and rehabilitate the runway. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from West Michigan is vital to the state's economy. This support will help ensure West Michigan Airports can continue to keep people traveling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Transportation is an essential ingredient in economic growth and job creation, and this federal funding will help maintain vital economic links around the world for West Michigan." The Muskegon County Airport will receive $2,226,598, and the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport will receive $1,469,000. More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
06.24.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Capital Region International Airport Tuesday, June 24, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Capital Region International Airport to expand the aircraft rescue and fire fighting building, and to rehabilitate the runway. The $2,190,514 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from the Mid-Michigan area is vital to the state's economy. This support will help ensure that the Capital Region International Airport can continue to keep people traveling safely and increase business activity at Port Lansing to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Transportation is an essential ingredient in economic growth and job creation, and this federal funding will help maintain vital economic links around the world for Mid-Michigan." Capital Region International Airport is home to Port Lansing. Chartered in 2008, Port Lansing is Mid-Michigan's only U.S. Port of Entry and provides access to global markets for hundreds of local businesses in eight Michigan counties. More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
06.24.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Bishop International Airport to Buy Fire Fighting Vehicle and Rehabilitate Runway Tuesday, June 24, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Bishop International Airport in Flint to purchase an aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicle, rehabilitate runway lighting, and build a deicing containment facility. The $1,804,310 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from Flint is vital to the state's economy. This support will help ensure that the airport can continue to keep people traveling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Transportation is an essential ingredient in economic growth and job creation, and this funding will help ensure that Bishop International can continue to fulfill its important role." Mr. James Rice, Bishop Airport Director, said: Senators Stabenow and Levin have been strong supporters and advocates for our airport, and today's announcement is welcome news. Thanks to their leadership on today's announcement, Bishop Airport will be able to continue serving residents of Genesee County and surrounding areas for years to come." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
06.24.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Sawyer International Airport to Buy Fire Fighting Vehicle and Rehabilitate Runway Tuesday, June 24, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Sawyer International Airport in Marquette to purchase an aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicle and rehabilitate runway lighting. The $1,126,966 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from Marquette is vital to the state's economy. This support will help ensure that the airport can continue to keep people traveling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Transportation is an essential ingredient in economic growth and job creation, and this federal funding will help maintain vital economic links around the world for the Upper Peninsula." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
06.24.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Three Northern Michigan Airports Tuesday, June 24, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Cherry Capital Airport, Charlevoix Municipal Airport and Alpena County Regional Airport to rehabilitate their runways and purchase new equipment. The support comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from Northern Michigan is vital to the state's economy. This support will help ensure that the airport can continue to keep people traveling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Transportation is an essential ingredient in economic growth and job creation, and this federal funding will help maintain vital economic links around the world for Northern Michigan." Cherry Capital Airport in Traverse City will receive $686,700 to purchase snow removal equipment, Charlevoix Municipal Airport will receive $2,061,576 to rehabilitate the airport's apron area, and the Alpena County Regional Airport will receive $1,786,000 to rehabilitate the taxiway. More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
06.23.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Two Iosco County Farmers’ Markets Monday, June 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for two Iosco County farmers' markets. The grants, made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant Program, will be used to help establish a farmers' market and small business incubator in Oscoda Charter Township and construct a year-round farmers' market pavilion in Tawas City."When we grow things here and make things here, we create jobs here in Michigan. Farmers' markets connect families and small businesses with local farmers and ranchers, growing the economy and creating jobs," said Stabenow. "This will help support local farmers and businesses who want to invest and create new jobs in Oscoda and Tawas City."Oscoda Charter Township will receive $15,100 to help establish a farmers' market and small business incubator for food entrepreneurs in downtown Oscoda. Tawas City will receive $20,000 to construct a year-round farmers' market pavilion. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
06.23.2014	Protecting Michigan's Coastline and Natural Treasures for Future Generations Monday, June 23, 2014 The Michigan Coastal Management Program will receive more than $2.5 million from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to address protection of shore lands and coastal ecosystems, public access and recreation, and coastal community development, Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. "Families across Michigan spend their summers on our state's coasts, relaxing on the beach and hiking the dunes," said Sen. Stabenow. "This support will help protect these natural treasures for generations to come." "The Coastal Zone Management Program has helped Michigan communities manage and protect the vast resources of the Great Lakes for decades," said Sen. Levin, co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. "It is important that we continue to support this effort, which helps preserve the world's most valued source of freshwater." Michigan's Department of Environmental Quality will administer the $2,512,000 federal grant, which will leverage nearly $2 million in state and local funds. The funds will assist the Michigan Coastal Management Program with its efforts to address coastal issues such as shore lands protection, submerged lands, protection of coastal ecosystems, public access and recreation, and coastal community development. Some projects include identifying specific climate change impacts to Great Lakes coastal wetlands; identifying appropriate measures and strategies for addressing these impacts; and training staff to incorporate climate change measures into wetland regulatory processes. The grant will also support ongoing technical assistance and outreach to local communities; management of dunes and high risk erosion areas; and initiatives such as incorporating new methodologies of measuring bluff recession rates. The National Coastal Zone Management Program administered by NOAA is a voluntary federal-state partnership that provides grants to states with approved coastal zone management plans for the preservation, protection, restoration, and enhancement of coastal zone areas, including those in the Great Lakes region.
06.23.2014	Senator Stabenow Applauds Announcement of $8 Million for Farmers to Support Honey Bee Populations in Michigan, Midwest Monday, June 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the announcement that Michigan is among five states that will receive $8 million to help farmers and ranchers establish new habitats for declining honey bee populations. Honey bees, which have been declining for years, are a crucial part of Michigan's thriving agricultural economy. More than 130 fruits and vegetables depend on honey bees for pollination, but diseases, parasites, pesticides and habitat loss have caused the population to decline significantly. Senator Stabenow said: "Honey bees are a vital part of ensuring a healthy agricultural economy in Michigan and maintaining a safe, abundant food supply for our nation. Thanks to the support in my bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill, farmers across Michigan and the Midwest have access to tools to help the bee population recover and keep our agricultural economy growing." Terry Toland, President of the Michigan Beekeepers' Association, said: "Michigan Beekeepers' Association is very pleased that Chairwoman Stabenow and the U.S. Department of Agriculture recognize the problems that Michigan beekeepers are having and how important honeybees are to the environment, agriculture and how both interact with our economy." The support is made possible by the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) in Senator Stabenow's bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill, which was signed in Michigan earlier this year. CRP is a land conservation program that pays farmers to use their land in a way that improves water quality, prevents soil erosion and preserves wildlife habitat. In addition to Michigan, ranchers and farmers in Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wisconsin will receive support from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. More information about this initiative and the CRP can be found here.
06.18.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Two Southeast Michigan Fire Departments to Improve Operations and Safety Wednesday, June 18, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the City of Dearborn and the City of Roseville fire departments to improve operations and safety. The grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across Southeast Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Dearborn and Roseville. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "This important federal funding will help ensure that first-responders in Roseville and Dearborn have the training and equipment they need to keep their communities safe." The City of Dearborn will receive $414,936 and the Roseville Fire Department will receive $22,479. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
06.18.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for the City of Saginaw Fire Department to Improve Operations and Safety Wednesday, June 18, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the City of Saginaw Fire Department to improve operations and safety. The $64,026 grant comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Saginaw. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "This federal assistance will help ensure that the firefighters who protect Saginaw will have the support they need to carry out their vital responsibilities." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
06.18.2014	Senators Stabenow and Levin Announce Millions of Dollars in PILT Payments for Michigan Counties Wednesday, June 18, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced that Michigan counties will receive millions of dollars of support made possible through the bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill. The $4.6 million in federal Payments In Lieu of Taxes (PILT) will offset the loss of property tax revenue from nontaxable federal property, such as National Forests. "Thanks to the bipartisan Farm Bill passed earlier this year, communities across Michigan can count on this important funding to pay for roads, police and fire protection and other critical local services," Stabenow said. "This will help ensure the continuing partnership between our local communities and our National Forests and other federal lands that contribute so much to our Michigan way of life." "Federal protection for national parks, forests and other federal land is important to Michigan's economy and the environment, and these payments allow us to protect these resources while reducing the financial burden on local communities," Levin said. When Congress passed its spending bill last year, it did not include PILT, meaning communities across the country would not have been paid. Senator Stabenow's bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill included a one-year extension of PILT to ensure local communities in Michigan and across the country would get the payments they deserve. Senator Levin voted for the Farm Bill and attended the ceremony when President Obama signed the 2014 Farm Bill in Michigan earlier this year. Under the PILT Program, the Department of Interior reimburses county governments based on a formula that includes the amount of federal land within their boundaries and county population. Types of federal land used in the formula include national forest and national park land, Bureau of Land Management land and areas affected by Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation projects. See below for the county-by-county breakdown of 2014 payments to Michigan counties: County, PILT paymentAlcona County: $101,699 Alger County: $285,378 Baraga County: $70,139 Benzie Count0y: $21,545 Chippewa County: $264,587 Crawford County: $60,804 Delta County: $362,624 Gogebic County: $529,679 Houghton County: $297,246 Iosco County: $125,344 Iron County: $352,306 Keweenaw County: $338,782 Lake County: $174,556 Leelanau County: $113,368 Mackinac County: $88,446 Manistee County: $116,357 Marquette County: $39,572 Mason County: $107,664 Mecosta County: $2,586 Montcalm County: $3,530 Muskegon County: $28,206 Newaygo County: $123,167 Oceana County: $77,026 Ogemaw County: $2,127 Ontonagon County: $492,449 Oscoda County: $115,763 Schoolcraft County: $209,395 Wayne County: $3,075 Wexford County: $103,825 Total: $4,611,245
06.18.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Urge Secretary Kerry to Protect Great Lakes, Stop Canada from Storing Nuclear Waste Near Lake Huron Wednesday, June 18, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry urging him to engage with the Canadian government and the International Joint Commission to stop a Canadian proposal to store nuclear waste in Ontario, less than one mile from the shores of Lake Huron. Building a nuclear waste site so close to the Great Lakes increases the potential of a spill or contamination, which could devastate our $7 billion dollar fishing industry on the Lakes, hurt the Michigan economy and severely damage environmentally sensitive areas. Michigan law prohibits disposing of low-level nuclear waste within ten miles of the Great Lakes. The letter reads, in part: "The Great Lakes are a highly valued resource to eight states and two countries. The future health and prosperity of the Great Lakes is an extremely serious matter. We would appreciate a prompt response explaining how you plan to work with the Canadian government and the IJC to ensure that this nuclear waste repository is not built near the shores of Lake Huron." Senators Stabenow and Levin wrote Secretary Kerry in October 2013, urging him to prevent construction of the nuclear waste dump by engaging the Canadian government and the International Joint Commission, the organization formed by the U.S. and Canada to resolve issues between the nations along shared border waters. His response did not indicate whether he would engage the International Joint Commission in negotiations. The full text of the letter follows. The Honorable Secretary Kerry SecretaryU.S. Department of State2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: We write to strongly urge you to engage with the Canadian government and International Joint Commission (IJC) regarding Ontario Power Generation's proposal to build an underground radioactive nuclear waste repository less than a mile inland from the shores of Lake Huron near Kincardine, Ontario. Michigan law prohibits low-level radioactive nuclear waste from being disposed of within ten miles of the lakes and rivers in the Great Lakes system. Canada should consider similar criteria. Building a nuclear waste repository so close to the Great Lakes has the potential to threaten our $7 billion dollar fishing industry and hurt our economy. In October 2013, we wrote to you and asked that you engage with the IJC and the Canadian government. Your response did not indicate whether you plan to work with the IJC on this matter. The United States and Canada have a joint responsibility to ensure that the Great Lakes are protected. The Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909 states that "waters flowing across the boundary shall not be polluted on either side to the injury of health or property on the other." In Article IX of the Treaty, Canada and the United States may request the IJC to study and report upon matters concerning waters along common borders. We strongly urge you to work with the Canadian authorities to request that the IJC fully study and evaluate the proposed nuclear waste facility. The Great Lakes are a highly valued resource to eight states and two countries. The future health and prosperity of the Great Lakes is an extremely serious matter. We would appreciate a prompt response explaining how you plan to work with the Canadian government and the IJC to ensure that this nuclear waste repository is not built near the shores of Lake Huron. Thank you for your attention to this matter.
06.17.2014	Biobased Manufacturing: Creating Michigan Jobs Tuesday, June 17, 2014 Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today said that biobased companies are creating jobs across the country and helping to grow the economy through new innovations in manufacturing. Stabenow's comments came during a Committee hearing that examined how companies are taking advantage of homegrown agriculture - instead of petroleum - to make new products, spurring a new wave in innovative manufacturing that's growing the economy across the country. Accompanying the ‘Grow It Here, Make It Here' hearing, 35 biobased companies and organizations from 25 states (representing half of the country) had their work on display in the Kennedy Caucus Room and provided firsthand insights into how important biobased manufacturing has been in growing their manufacturing operations. Four companies from Michigan, Ford Motor Company, Lear Corporation, KTM Industries, and Fabri-Kal attended the event to showcase their innovative biobased manufactured products. "Biobased manufacturing is the next jobs revolution in our country, and one that Michigan is ready to lead," said Chairwoman Stabenow. "More than 3,000 companies in the United States - and 80 in Michigan - either manufacture or distribute biobased products. This brings together Michigan's top two industries - manufacturing and agriculture - and creates new opportunities for companies and farmers to partner to continue growing an essential crop right here at home: manufacturing jobs." Chairwoman Stabenow said the Farm Bill is a jobs bill, and she emphasized that the Committee recognized early on the value of connecting agriculture with manufacturing when writing the bill, which was signed into law in February. The bill included critical biobased initiatives to help innovators leverage new resources to grow their manufacturing businesses, creating new jobs by harnessing the potential of American grown agriculture crops. "Earlier this year, we saw the work that began at this table make its way to the President's desk. In that bill, we created new opportunities to support biobased manufacturing so innovators in both rural and urban America could continue growing their businesses, and creating manufacturing jobs. We recognized the connection between manufacturing and agriculture, and understood early on its potential for growing the economy." "I have seen it firsthand, from our automakers in Michigan," Chairwoman Stabenow said. "Agricultural products are being used in nearly every part of automotive production: from seats to interior panels, armrests to sunshades, soy wire coatings, carpets, and structural foam. ... As I always say, in Michigan we both grow things and make things. Agriculture and manufacturing are at the heart of our economy - they are the foundation of the middle class." Following the hearing, Members of the Committee and the public went to the Kennedy Caucus Room to see firsthand some of the innovative products that are helping to fuel the biobased manufacturing boom. Representatives from 35 companies and organizations (representing 25 states) were on hand with their products to showcase the innovative work being done in biobased manufacturing. A full list of those companies can be accessed here. Witnesses who testified before the Committee at the hearing represented companies that have been leading the charge in biobased manufacturing including Mr. Scott Vitters, General Manager, PlantBottle Innovation Platform, The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, GA; Mr. Ashford A. Galbreath, Director, Advanced Materials and Comfort Engineering, Research and Development, Lear Corporation, Southfield, MI; Mr. Kurtis Miller, BU President, Cargill Industrial Specialties, Cargill, Inc., Hopkins, MN; Mr. Adam Monroe, President, Americas, Novozymes North America Inc., Franklinton, NC; and, Mr. J.D. Hankins II, Vice President, Hankins, Inc., Ripley, MS.
06.12.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement on Situation in Iraq Thursday, June 12, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement regarding the ongoing situation in Iraq: "I am horrified by the current situation in Iraq, and I share the deep concerns of many families in Michigan who are frightened for friends and family members in Iraq. The Iraqi government must do everything possible to protect all of its citizens from further violence, particularly those who may be targeted by extremists. I will continue to closely monitor events on the ground."
06.12.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Four Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Thursday, June 12, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for four Southeast Michigan fire departments to improve operations and safety. The Allen Park Fire Department will also receive support to help purchase a new fire fighting vehicle. The support comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Our firefighters provide courageous service to communities across Southeast Michigan. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "Every day, firefighters and EMTs across our state stand ready to respond to emergency calls in their community. These grants will provide needed assistance to these four Southeast Michigan fire departments as they work to protect lives and property in their communities." The Allen Park Fire Department will receive $99,720 for operations and safety and $144,000 to purchase a new vehicle. The Brandon Fire Department will receive $121,125. The Clinton Township Department of Fire, Rescue and EMS will receive $40,505. The Southgate Fire Department will receive $33,660. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is a part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment, vehicles, and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
06.12.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Otsego County Fire Department to Improve Operations and Safety Thursday, June 12, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Otsego County Fire Department to improve operations and safety. The $233,890 grant comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Gaylord. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "Every day, firefighters and EMTs in Otsego County stand ready to respond to emergency calls across the county. This grant will provide needed assistance to the Otsego County Fire Department as they work to protect lives and property in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is a part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
06.12.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Ironwood Fire Department to Improve Operations and Safety Thursday, June 12, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Ironwood Fire Department to improve operations and safety. The $13,680 grant comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Ironwood. This grant makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "Every day, first responders in Ironwood stand ready to respond to emergency calls in their community. This grant will provide needed assistance to the Ironwood Public Safety Department as they work to protect lives and property in the City of Ironwood." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is a part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
06.11.2014	Senate Passes Bill to Restore Accountability, Reduce Wait Times at the Department of Veterans Affairs Wednesday, June 11, 2014 The Senate today passed legislation to restore accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs and reduce wait times at VA facilities so veterans can get the health care they deserve. The Veterans' Access to Care Through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014 brings immediate accountability to the VA that will strengthen the Department's ability to fire senior managers and officials responsible for poor performance at VA health facilities. It also takes steps to reduce wait times and clear the backlog, including hiring more doctors and nurses in the VA system and providing expanded options for care for those veterans who live in rural areas or experience excessive wait times. "Our veterans deserve to get the health care they need, when they need it," said Stabenow. "Those individuals who broke the law and lied about veterans wait times should be held responsible and accountable, and we must make sure something like this does not happen again. I will continue to work with the community and monitor the performance of VA facilities in Michigan to make sure they are meeting the highest standards." For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure that veterans get the care they need and bring veterans' health clinics to Michigan. New clinics have opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Cheboygan County, Clare, and Grayling.
06.11.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Ontonagon County to Buy New Police Vehicle Wednesday, June 11, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Ontonagon County Sheriff's Department. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $14,000 grant will be used to help the community buy a new police vehicle to use in heavy snow conditions. "Our first responders provide invaluable services to communities in Ontonagon County and throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
06.11.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Seniors in Clare County Wednesday, June 11, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Clare County Senior Services, which serves nearly 80,000 meals per year through its Senior Nutrition Program. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Loan program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $135,000 loan will be used to buy a new facility to use as a Senior Services Building. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is important for our local organizations," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement will help Clare County Senior Services continue serving meals to our seniors and reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
06.11.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Gerald R. Ford International Airport Wednesday, June 11, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Gerald R. Ford International Airport to purchase an aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicle, rehabilitate runway lighting, and build a deicing containment facility. The $3,800,000 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from West Michigan is vital to the state's economy," said Stabenow. "This support will help ensure that the Gerald R. Ford International Airport can continue to keep people travelling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Airports are essential to tourism, economic development and cultural exchange," Levin said. "This federal funding will ensure that a vital cog in the West Michigan economy keeps humming." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
06.11.2014	Republicans Filibuster Bill to Reduce Student Loan Payments of Millions of Americans, Co-Authored by Senator Stabenow Wednesday, June 11, 2014 Senate Republicans today filibustered a bill co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow that would have reduced the student loan payments of more than 25 million Americans, and nearly one million in Michigan alone. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, introduced last week by Senator Stabenow, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and others, would allow people to refinance their existing loans, taken out at higher interest rates in the past, at the lower rates available to new borrowers during the 2013-2014 school year, reducing their monthly loan payments. The legislation is fully paid for and would save taxpayers billions of dollars by enacting the Buffett Rule, which ensures that millionaires and billionaires pay their fair share of taxes. Republicans refused to let the Senate even consider the bill, filibustering it before it could be brought to the floor. "It's outrageous that Senate Republicans would rather protect the big banks and unfair tax loopholes for millionaires and billionaires than address the student debt crisis hanging over the heads of millions of middle class families," said Stabenow. "Too many people in Michigan and across the country face decades of paying down debt just because they wanted to get an education and have a fair shot to get ahead. I will continue fighting to help borrowers who are having to forego saving for a house, buying a car, or starting a family because of the crushing burden of student debt. People need degrees, not debt, and there's no reason we cannot get this done." According to the Project on Student Debt, Michigan ranks in the top ten of states with the highest average student loan debt. In Michigan, the average student loan debt among those who borrow to get a bachelor's degree is nearly $29,000 and 62% of Michigan students have debt when they graduate. Many borrowers are stuck with unsustainable levels of student debt for two and even three decades of their lives. Under the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, a borrower with $29,000 in public loans at a 7 percent interest rate would save over $5,400 in interest payments over ten years. A borrower with $100,000 in private loans at a 14 percent interest rate would save nearly $155,000 in interest payments over twenty years.
06.09.2014	Senator Stabenow Applauds President Obama’s Actions to Make Student Loans More Affordable Monday, June 09, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today welcomed the announcement by President Obama that he will use his executive authority to help make student loans more affordable and easier to manage. Stabenow is the co-author of the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, which would allow people to refinance their existing loans, taken out at higher interest rates in the past, at the lower rates available to new borrowers during the 2013-2014 school year, saving them hundreds or thousands of dollars. The Department of Education estimates that the legislation would benefit more than 25 million borrowers nationwide, including 963,000 in Michigan. The Senate is scheduled to vote on her legislation this week. "I'm glad that President Obama recognizes that Americans need degrees, not debt, and has taken action to help millions of student loan borrowers," said Stabenow. "Too many people in Michigan face decades of paying down enormous debt just because they wanted a fair shot to go to college and get ahead. Now, the Senate needs to act to pass our legislation to lower borrowers' interest rates and help boost our economy." Today's announcement would expand the existing Pay As You Earn program, which caps a borrower's monthly student loan payments at 10 percent of their income, to an additional five million borrowers who took out loans before 2007 or have not borrowed since 2011. The president also announced several steps the Departments of Education and the Treasury will take in cooperation with the private and non-profit sectors to help borrowers manage their student loans. According to the Project on Student Debt, Michigan ranks in the top ten of states with the highest average student loan debt. In Michigan, the average student loan debt among those who borrow to get a bachelor's degree is nearly $29,000 and 62% of Michigan students have debt when they graduate. Many borrowers are stuck with unsustainable levels of student debt for two and even three decades of their lives. Under the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, a borrower with $29,000 in public loans at a 7 percent interest rate would save over $5,400 in interest payments over ten years. A borrower with $100,000 in private loans at a 14 percent interest rate would save nearly $155,000 in interest payments over twenty years. The legislation has been endorsed by dozens of organizations, including the AFL-CIO, American Federation of Teachers, Center for Responsible Lending, Center for American Progress, the National Education Association (NEA), Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Young Invincibles, and many others. The legislation is fully funded by enacting the Buffett Rule, which would limit special tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans that allow millionaires and billionaires to pay lower effective tax rates than middle class families, and will reduce the deficit by billions of dollars. More information on today's executive actions is available here.
06.06.2014	Senate to Vote on Legislation Co-Authored by Senator Stabenow to Help Address Growing Student Debt Crisis Friday, June 06, 2014 The Senate will vote next week on legislation co-authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow that will save millions of Americans money on their student loans and reduce the deficit by billions of dollars. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, introduced earlier this week by Senator Stabenow, Senator Elizabeth Warren and others, would allow people to refinance their existing loans, taken out at higher interest rates in the past, at the lower rates available to new borrowers during the 2013-2014 school year, saving them hundreds or thousands of dollars. The legislation is fully paid for and would save taxpayers billions of dollars by enacting the Buffett Rule, which ensures that millionaires and billionaires pay their fair share of taxes. "People need degrees, not debt. Too many people in Michigan face decades of paying down staggering debt just because they wanted a fair shot to go to college and get ahead," said Stabenow. "That is why I'm fighting alongside Sen. Warren and my Democratic colleagues to help borrowers who are weighed down by massive and unsustainable levels of student debt. Lowering these borrowers' rates will improve the lives of millions of Americans and help boost our economy by allowing them to spend their money on a home, a car, and the needs of their families instead of on interest payments that barely make a dent in their debt." According to the Project on Student Debt, Michigan ranks in the top ten of states with the highest average student loan debt. In Michigan, the average student loan debt among those who borrow to get a bachelor's degree is nearly $29,000 and 62% of Michigan students have debt when they graduate. Many borrowers are stuck with unsustainable levels of student debt for two and even three decades of their lives. Under the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, a borrower with $29,000 in public loans at a 7 percent interest rate would save over $5,400 in interest payments over ten years. A borrower with $100,000 in private loans at a 14 percent interest rate would save nearly $155,000 in interest payments over twenty years. The legislation has been endorsed by dozens of organizations, including the AFL-CIO, American Federation of Teachers, Center for Responsible Lending, Center for American Progress, the National Education Association (NEA), Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Young Invincibles, and many others. The legislation is fully funded by enacting the Buffett Rule, which would limit special tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans that allow millionaires and billionaires to pay lower effective tax rates than middle class families.
06.05.2014	Senators Stabenow and Levin Announce Tens of Millions in Tax Credits to Support Economic Development in Michigan Thursday, June 05, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced tens of millions of dollars in tax credits for community development projects to grow the economy and create jobs in Michigan. The support comes through the Treasury Department's New Markets Tax Credit Program, which helps spur critical investments in low-income communities. Invest Detroit will receive $28 million to invest in the M-1 Rail project and related economic development in downtown and mid-town, and also plan to focus on commercial and small business development in Detroit neighborhoods. The Great Lakes Capital Fund will receive $35 million for projects to revitalize neighborhoods. Virginia-based Capital Impact Partners is also receiving $43 million to help support its national healthy food initiatives, including the Good Food Fund which increases access to healthy food for Michigan residents. Senator Stabenow said: "This is fantastic news for Michigan families, who want to live and work in vibrant communities, and our businesses, which thrive when their neighborhood is energized and growing. I've been working with communities across the state on economic development, and these funds will provide the tools that will allow these important projects to move forward. Today's announcement shows why it is so important we continue working hard to extend and expand this vital tax credit so additional opportunities for Michigan remain available in the future." Senator Levin said: "Today's announcement is good news for economic development across Michigan. By attracting private investment capital to the areas and projects in greatest need, these awards will help create jobs and opportunity and bolster important public investments, including projects such as the M-1 rail line." David Blaszkiewicz, President of Invest Detroit, said: "We are extremely pleased to have received this award at such a critical time for Detroit's revitalization. NMTC is an essential component for financing transformative renewal and supports our organization's mission to engage in transactions which provide jobs, and an improved quality of life for the communities it serves." Mark McDaniel, CEO of Great Lakes Capital Fund, said: "Thanks to this year's New Markets Tax Credit allocation, we will be able to invest in high-impact projects that create jobs and leverage further community development. From Detroit to Marquette, GLCF will invest these dollars to benefit Michigan workers and families." The New Markets Tax Credit Program allows community development organizations and non-profits to use these tax credits to attract investors, who help to finance community development projects. Senator Stabenow is a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over New Market Tax Credits, and has long championed the program.
06.04.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Great Lakes Bay Region First Responders Wednesday, June 04, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Essexville Public Safety Department and Blumfield Township Fire Department to improve operations and safety. The grants come through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our first responders provide critical services to communities across the Great Lakes Bay Region," Stabenow said. "This support will help make sure that the Essexville Public Safety Department and Blumfield Township Fire Department will have the resources they need to protect the public." "Every day, first responders in Essexville and Blumfield stand ready to protect lives and property in their communities," Levin said. "This grant will support the firefighters and EMTs of Essexville Fire Department and Blumfield Township Fire Department and help them in their vital mission of keeping their communities safe." Essexville Public Safety Department will receive $36,263, and Blumfield Township Fire Department will receive $2,850 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. The awards announced today are for operations and safety improvements, and can fund items such as professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective gear for firefighters, facilities improvements, and supplies that support firefighting and emergency medical services (EMS) operations. Fire departments and EMS organizations across the country may apply to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in different categories, and their applications must meet certain criteria established by the major fire service organizations. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
06.04.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Fruitport Fire Department Wednesday, June 04, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Fruitport Charter Township Fire Department to improve operations and safety. The grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our first responders provide critical services to communities like Fruitport across Michigan," said Stabenow. "This support will help make sure that Fruitport Charter Township Fire Department will have the resources it needs to protect the public." "Every day, first responders in Fruitport stand ready to protect lives and property in their community," Levin said. "This grant will support the firefighters and EMTs of Fruitport FD and help them in their vital mission of keeping their community safe." The department will receive $34,866 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. The award announced today is for operations and safety improvements, and can fund items such as professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective gear for firefighters, facilities improvements, and supplies that support firefighting and emergency medical services (EMS) operations. Fire departments and EMS organizations across the country may apply to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in different categories, and their applications must meet certain criteria established by the major fire service organizations. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
06.04.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for St. Ignace Fire Department Wednesday, June 04, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the St. Ignace Fire Department to improve operations and safety. The grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Our firefighters provide critical, courageous service to communities like St. Ignace across Michigan," said Stabenow. "This support will help make sure the St. Ignace Fire Department has the resources it needs to protect the public." "Every day, first responders in St. Ignace stand ready to protect lives and property in their community," Levin said. "This grant will support the firefighters and EMTs of St. Ignace FD and help them in their vital mission of keeping their community safe." The department will receive $61,750 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. The award announced today is for operations and safety improvements, and can fund items such as professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective gear for firefighters, facilities improvements, and supplies that support firefighting and emergency medical services (EMS) operations. Fire departments and EMS organizations across the country may apply to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in different categories, and their applications must meet certain criteria established by the major fire service organizations. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
06.03.2014	Senator Stabenow Introduces Bill to Increase Accountability at the VA, Clear Backlog of Veterans Waiting for Care Tuesday, June 03, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today joined a group of senators to introduce new legislation that increases accountability and addresses the serious backlog and unacceptable wait times at the Veterans Administration. This legislation follows earlier efforts by Senate Democrats to improve care for our veterans that have been filibustered by Republicans. The Restoring Veterans' Trust Act of 2014 brings immediate accountability to the VA that would strengthen the Department's ability to fire senior managers and officials responsible for poor performance at clinics. It then takes several immediate and long-term steps to reduce wait times and clear the backlog of veterans waiting for care, including hiring more doctors and nurses in the VA system. "Our veterans put their lives on the line to keep our country safe, and they should get the care they need when they need it." said Stabenow. "Keeping our promise to veterans starts with making sure they get the quality health care they earned. And it means holding those responsible for these unconscionable delays accountable to make sure something like this never happens again. I have been and will remain strongly committed to providing our veterans with the resources they need to get the care they deserve." For years, Senator Stabenow has led the fight to make sure that veterans get the care they need and bring veterans' health clinics to Michigan. New clinics have opened in Alpena, Bad Axe, Cadillac, Cheboygan County, Clare, and Grayling.
05.30.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Join Dedication of 32,000 acres of Wilderness at Sleeping Bear Dunes Friday, May 30, 2014 At the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today participated in the dedication of 32,000 acres of the lakeshore as Wilderness, which will guarantee the protection and preservation of the land while providing important access to the lakeshore's recreational opportunities and cultural resources. The law that directed the designation, which was signed into law by President Obama in March, was authored by Sen. Levin and cosponsored by Sen. Stabenow. "Today's designation will go a long way to preserving and promoting one of our state's top tourist attractions," said Sen. Stabenow. "Sleeping Bear Dunes is one of Michigan's indispensible treasures, attracting more than 1.2 million visitors a year, and should be protected for future generations to enjoy." "This Wilderness Designation is the result of a long journey of many years of hard work. The designation will protect countless treasures, including the magnificent sand dunes, miles of picturesque beaches, bluffs towering over Lake Michigan, lush forests, and portions of two islands," Sen. Levin said. "At the same time, the designation will ensure public access to important recreational and cultural resources for many generations to come." The Wilderness designation culminates 13 years of efforts by the local community, the National Park Service and Congress to update the lakeshore's general management plan and protect the park's unique natural habitat from harmful development while enabling public access to its beaches, trails and streams. Most of these areas have been managed as wilderness since 1982 when Congress passed a law that required the National Park Service to manage them as such until Congress acted upon a new recommendation. Under the legislation, areas designated as wilderness are undeveloped and possess significant and valuable natural characteristics. Developed county roads and state highways, boat launches and many historical structures are excluded from the wilderness designation to maintain access and recreational opportunities and ensure preservation and interpretation of historical resources. Hunting, fishing, trail use and camping will continue, and motor boats will still be allowed offshore of the dunes and allowed to beach in areas adjacent to the wilderness area.
05.30.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Michigan State University to Help Michigan Farmers Access New Farm Bill Resources Friday, May 30, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Michigan State University and its Cooperative Extension to help Michigan farmers and ranchers utilize new tools and resources available through the 2014 Farm Bill. President Obama signed Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill at Michigan State University in February. "Michigan State University and Cooperative Extension play a critical role in supporting our farmers and ranchers and Michigan's agriculture economy," said Stabenow. "This announcement will provide MSU with additional support to help Michigan farmers access the tools and resources available to them in the 2014 Farm Bill to help create jobs and keep our agriculture economy growing." MSU will receive roughly $150,000 and will partner with a coalition of universities led by the University of Illinois. A portion of these funds will be used to develop new online decision making tools for commodity, specialty crop, and dairy producers. The remainder will be used to support state-based MSU extension agents to help conduct public education and outreach meetings this summer. Sign-ups for some newly established programs have already begun, with more beginning later this year. The bipartisan, five-year Farm Bill signed into law earlier this year reforms agriculture programs, reduces the deficit by $23 billion and will help farmers and business owners continue to grow Michigan's agriculture economy. The bill includes major reforms like eliminating the direct payment subsidy program, streamlining and consolidating other programs, and cracking down on fraud and misuse. The bill also invests in initiatives to help strengthen Michigan's fruit and vegetable industries, increase American agriculture exports, and help family farmers sell more goods locally. The Farm Bill is also the biggest investment in conservation the nation has made or is likely to make in years, including support for new regional partnerships that was announced earlier this week by Sen. Stabenow and Secretary Tom Vilsack in Bay City. This program will help provide opportunities for businesses, non-profits, universities, and federal, state and local governments to partner with agricultural and conservation groups to invest in clean water, soil and wildlife conservation.
05.29.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Bessemer and Laurium Thursday, May 29, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Bessemer and the Village of Laurium. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The City of Bessemer will receive a $5,265,000 grant to upgrade their 100-year-old sewer system. The Village of Laurium will receive a $15,000 grant to help purchase a new police vehicle. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." "This grant is exciting news for the City of Bessemer," said Michael Uskiewicz, Bessemer City Manager. "The sewer project supported by this $5,265,000 grant will provide much needed maintenance, improve our infrastructure, and will go a very long way to enhancing the quality of life in Bessemer. We thank Senator Stabenow for helping make a lasting impact on the future growth and development of the community through this announcement. The City of Bessemer is focused on improvement, and today we can move forward and meet our goals." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.29.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Great Lakes Habitat Restoration Thursday, May 29, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Great Lakes Commission to lead a regional partnership focusing on habitat restoration in the Great Lakes. The new partnership, comprised of the Great Lakes Commission and state and local agencies, will receive over $1.7 million through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. This funding will continue work underway through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. "Today's announcement is another great victory for the Great Lakes, and it comes only a few days after USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack and I announced the new Regional Conservation Partnership Program that will invest in clean water, soil and wildlife conservation," said Stabenow. "Our Great Lakes are vital to Michigan's way of life and economy, and this will strengthen our efforts to protect them for future generations." "Restoring the Great Lakes and the waters flowing into them is of immense importance to the health and prosperity of millions in Michigan and beyond," Levin said. "We've already made great progress in restoring habitat throughout the Great Lakes, and this grant will help ensure that vital work can continue." The Great Lakes Commission will receive $1,762,000 from NOAA.
05.29.2014	Senators Stabenow and Levin Announce Support for North Oakland County Fire Authority Thursday, May 29, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the North Oakland County Fire Authority to improve operations and safety. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said: "Our firefighters provide critical services to communities in Oakland County and across Michigan. This support will help make sure that the North Oakland County Fire Authority has the resources they need to protect the public." Senator Carl Levin said: "Communities everywhere turn to their fire departments for emergencies large and small. This grant will help provide needed assistance to the firefighters and EMTs of North Oakland County Fire Authority who stand ready every day to put their lives on the line for their community." The North Oakland County Fire Authority will receive $49,875. This support will help the fire department with training, equipment and other operational and safety needs.
05.29.2014	Senator Stabenow Welcomes Department of Energy Announcement on Natural Gas Exports Thursday, May 29, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a senior member of the U.S. Senate Energy Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, today welcomed the announcement by the Department of Energy that it will shift the permitting process for natural gas export facilities to focus only on final - not conditional - commitments, will continue to make individual national interest determinations on case-by-case basis, and will undertake several new or updated studies on the economic and climate change implications of increased natural gas production and potential exports. "Today's announcement is good news for families and businesses that rely on affordable natural gas," said Stabenow. "American manufacturers have created more than 600,000 jobs since 2010, and we can't afford to risk American jobs, economic growth, and our long-term energy independence by rushing new export approvals through. The Department of Energy listened to my concerns about unlimited, aggressive natural gas exports and the steps announced today will allow it to proceed in a thorough and thoughtful manner, as it should with such a vitally important American resource." In part because of low natural gas prices, American manufacturers have created hundreds of thousands of jobs in the last few years. Unlimited, aggressive exports of natural gas could hurt America's goal of achieving energy independence, raise prices for families and manufacturers, and threaten American jobs. The new and updated studies announced today will present the Department of Energy and other stakeholders with clearer information about the economic impacts of increased natural gas production and potential exports. Earlier this month, Sen. Stabenow led a bipartisan group of 22 Senators in urging President Obama to consider the impact of large-scale natural gas exports on American manufacturers and families that rely on affordable natural gas. The letter cited a recent report by the Boston Consulting Group that concluded that affordable natural gas prices could lead to 5 million more manufacturing jobs by 2020. Another study found that using natural gas to increase domestic manufacturing output is twice as valuable to our overall economy and creates eight times as many jobs as sending this important American resource overseas. Based on contracts currently in place and other factors, Asian nations would be the primary beneficiaries from any increase in natural gas exports. Natural gas prices in Asia are currently three to four times higher than those in the United States, and would likely command a large portion of the export market. More information about the Department of Energy's announcement can be found here: http://energy.gov/articles/proposed-change-energy-departments-lng-export-decision-making-procedures
05.28.2014	Senators Stabenow and Levin Announce Support for Ogemaw Fire Department Wednesday, May 28, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Ogemaw Fire Department to improve operations and safety. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency. Senator Stabenow said: "Our first responders provide critical services to communities like West Branch across Michigan. This support will help make sure that the Ogemaw Fire Department will have the resources it needs to protect the public." Senator Carl Levin said: "Communities everywhere turn to their fire departments for emergencies large and small. This grant will help provide needed assistance to the firefighters and EMTs of Ogemaw Fire Department who stand ready every day to put their lives on the line for their community." The Ogemaw Fire Department will receive $21,470. This support will help the fire department with training, equipment and other operational and safety needs.
05.28.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for City of Kingsford to Buy New Police Vehicle Wednesday, May 28, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the City of Kingsford Police Department. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $16,000 grant will be used to help buy a new police vehicle for the community. "Our first responders provide invaluable services to communities like Kingsford throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.27.2014	National Conservation Initiative Launched in Bay City Tuesday, May 27, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack today launched a national conservation initiative that will protect our Great Lakes and invest in water conservation across the country. During a visit to the Saginaw Bay area, they announced that the new Regional Conservation Partnership Program created by Sen. Stabenow in her bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill is now being implemented. This program will help provide opportunities for businesses, non-profits, universities, and federal, state and local governments to partner with agricultural and conservation groups to invest in clean water, soil and wildlife conservation. Sen. Stabenow and Sec. Vilsack also announced that the Great Lakes region has been selected as one of the nation's target regions for clean water projects. USDA has designated the Great Lakes as one of eight Critical Conservation Areas across the country, which will provide an opportunity for additional funding to address water quality issues. The other areas designated are the Chesapeake Bay Watershed, Mississippi River Basin, Longleaf Pine Range, Columbia River Basin, California Bay Delta, Prairie Grasslands, and the Colorado River Basin. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "Today's historic announcement will have a lasting impact on the health of our Great Lakes by strengthening our efforts to protect our water, land, and wildlife habitat for future generations. Partnering businesses and non-profits with our farmers and conservation leaders will bring greater focus and additional resources to the Great Lakes region and critical areas across the country. I am pleased to host Secretary Vilsack here in Michigan to launch this national initiative created in the 2014 Farm Bill." Secretary Vilsack said: "This is an entirely new approach to conservation. We're giving private companies, local communities, and other non-government partners a way to invest in what are essentially clean water start-up operations. By establishing new public-private partnerships, we can have an impact that's well beyond what the Federal government could accomplish on its own. These efforts keep our land resilient and water clean, and promote tremendous economic growth in agriculture, construction, tourism and outdoor recreation, and other industries." The Regional Conservation Partnership Program will competitively award funds to conservation projects designed by local partners specifically for their region. USDA will provide $1.2 billion in funding over the life of the five-year program and can leverage an additional $1.2 billion from partners for a total of $2.4 billion for conservation. $400 million in USDA funding is available in the first year. Through RCPP, partners propose conservation projects to improve soil health, water quality and water use efficiency, wildlife habitat, and other related natural resources on private lands. The 2014 Farm Bill is our country's biggest investment in private land conservation and has been called the most significant conservation legislation in generations. Voluntary partnerships between agricultural and conservation groups help farmers conserve soil health, protect water quality, and restore wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes Bay region and across our state.
05.26.2014	On his 1000th day of imprisonment, Sens. Stabenow, Levin, Rep. Kildee call for Amir Hekmati's Release Monday, May 26, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin and Congressman Dan Kildee today marked the 1,000th day of captivity in Iran for Michigan resident Amir Hekmati by again calling for his release. "I met with Amir Hekmati's family last week, and I stand with them to demand that Iran free Amir immediately," Stabenow said. "It's absolutely unacceptable that he has been held illegally in Iran for one day, let alone for 1,000 days. My thoughts and prayers are with the family for a quick end to this outrage so Amir can be back with his family and his ailing father." "It has now been 1,000 days since Amir Hekmati was free to see his family, 1,000 days he has been unable to enjoy the freedom that is the birthright of every American citizen," Levin said. "Calls for his freedom have come from people across Michigan and the nation and around the world; from humanitarian, human rights and religious organizations; from the halls of Congress; and from President Obama. Amir's imprisonment is unjust, and though injustice may last for one day or 1,000, history teaches us that ultimately, justice is too powerful to deny. We again call upon President Rouhani and the Iranian government to make a powerful statement about their desire to rejoin the community of responsible nations, to end this injustice, and release Amir on humanitarian grounds." "We have not forgotten - nor will we ever forget - Amir Hekmati, and we won't stop advocating for his release until he returns home," Kildee said. "Amir fought for our freedoms as a Marine and we must honor his service and sacrifice by fighting for him now. Not a day goes by that I don't raise Amir's case with my colleagues in Congress, many of whom have joined me in calling on Iran to do the right thing and release Amir. Amir is innocent, has been imprisoned for too long, and needs to be released so he can return to his family in Michigan."
05.23.2014	Congress Unanimously Passes Peters-Stabenow Measure to Cut Red Tape for Auto Dealers Friday, May 23, 2014 Today, in a joint effort led by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, and U.S. Representative Gary Peters, Congressional Auto Caucus Co-Chair, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed a bipartisan bill to cut red tape for Michigan auto dealers and consumers. The Peters-Stabenow bill eliminates a redundant and outdated provision of The Clean Air Act requiring auto dealers to provide consumers with a certificate confirming a vehicle's compliance with the law even though every new model meets that standard. "Cutting red tape is a win-win for Michigan small businesses and consumers," said Sen. Stabenow. "Eliminating redundant paperwork is just common sense and will allow our auto dealers to focus on selling cars and trucks and the needs of their customers. I want to thank Congressman Peters for his leadership on this important issue and getting this bipartisan legislation passed in Congress." "This is a simple and straightforward way to get rid of needless paperwork and reduce the burden of duplicative regulation on Michigan's small businesses," said Peters. "This bill cuts red tape for Michigan auto dealers and consumers so folks can focus on what matters - finding the right car for themselves and their families." The bill has earned critical support from the National Auto Dealers Association (NADA), the Auto Alliance, the National Association of Minority Automobile Dealers, Global Automakers, and the American International Automobile Dealers Association. A letter in support is attached. "The National Automobile Dealers Association commends Rep. Peters, Rep. Bob Latta, Sen. Debbie Stabenow, and Sen. Deb Fischer, for their leadership on behalf of small business auto dealers to cut red tape and reduce unnecessary regulation. Because of their bipartisan efforts, auto dealers can focus on helping customers instead of pointless paperwork," said Peter Welch president of the National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA). Senator Stabenow has led the effort to cut red tape for small businesses, successfully repealing a burdensome regulation that would have increased IRS 1099 paperwork by 2000 percent for 40 million small businesses. Stabenow helped lead the effort in the Senate with Sen. Carl Levin to pass the State Small Business Credit Initiative and the Small Business Jobs Act to spur lending to small businesses and boost job growth. Earlier this year, the U.S. Treasury Department announced that Michigan is the number one state in the country in State Small Business Credit Initiative lending. Peters is an outspoken champion for Michigan's auto industry, manufacturing, workers and small businesses. As Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Auto Caucus, Peters has been instrumental in drafting legislation to support the American auto industry. Peters also helped write and pass the Small Business Jobs Act and authored the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) which provides necessary credit so that small businesses can grow and create jobs.
05.23.2014	Senator Stabenow Announces Victory for American Automakers and Workers in Trade Case Against China Friday, May 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chair of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs and Global Competitiveness, today joined U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman to announce a World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling that China illegally imposed import duties on U.S.-made automobiles and SUVs. The duties, placed on well-known American brands like Jeep and Buick, are estimated to have affected up to $5.1 billion worth of U.S. auto exports in 2013. China is now the second-largest export market for American automobiles, after Canada. "This is about jobs," said Stabenow. "Today's ruling is a major victory for American workers and manufacturers and another blow to China's continued illegal trade practices. It is long past time China recognize that its repeated attempts to flout the rules will not be tolerated. I want to thank the Obama administration for standing up to China and fighting against illegal trade practices to ensure that we continue to export our products, not our jobs. Strong enforcement actions like this one are essential to the ongoing resurgence of American manufacturing." Senator Stabenow, who is Co-chair of the Senate Manufacturing Caucus, has championed trade enforcement for years. In 2012 President Obama created the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center (ITEC) based on legislation introduced by Stabenow. Today's case was brought in conjunction with the ITEC, which monitors and enforces U.S. trade rights. This victory marks the third recent WTO ruling in favor of American businesses and workers against China. Senator Stabenow, also Chair of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, urged the administration to address both cases, one dealing with American-made steel and the other with U.S. broiler-chicken products. Earlier this week, the United States Department of Justice indicted five Chinese military hackers, charging them with cyber espionage and trying to illegally gain trade secrets. The indictment alleges that Chinese military officials hacked into the communications networks of major U.S. businesses and the United Steelworkers Union to steal intellectual property and other sensitive business information.
05.23.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for City of Hancock to Buy New Police Vehicle Friday, May 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the City of Hancock's Police Department. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $15,000 grant will be used to help buy a new police vehicle for the community. "Our first responders provide invaluable services to communities like the City of Hancock throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.23.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for the City of Stanton to Buy New Police Vehicle Friday, May 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the City of Stanton. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $10,500 grant will be used to help buy a new police vehicle and equipment for the community. "Our first responders provide invaluable services to communities like the City of Stanton throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.22.2014	Senate Passes Legislation to Protect and Conserve the Great Lakes, Boost Region’s Economy Thursday, May 22, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today applauded Senate passage of legislation that will help grow the Great Lakes region's economy while conserving our lakes and waterways. The Water Resources Reform and Development Act, which passed the Senate with a broad bipartisan majority 91-7, ensures that for the first time the Great Lakes are treated as a single navigational system, increases funding for harbor maintenance, and provides broader authority for the Army Corps of Engineers to prevent the infiltration of Asian carp into the Great Lakes. The bill now heads to President Obama for his signature. "Our Great Lakes are vital to our Michigan way of life, and support hundreds of thousands of jobs," said Stabenow. "Protecting our lakes and maintaining our ports, harbors and waterways is essential to keeping the economy growing and preserving Michigan's natural beauty for generations to come." "Our nation's economy, health and well-being depend on a strong water infrastructure, and that's especially true for Michigan. This bill makes progress in authorizing programs to strengthen our navigation systems, flood control, drinking water and wastewater systems, and natural resources," Levin said. The Water Resources Reform and Development Act ensures that at least 10 percent of all new national harbor funding will be set aside specifically for projects in the Great Lakes system. The Great Lakes are also designated as a single navigation system, allowing smaller ports to have higher priority for maintenance requests as part of the larger waterway system. The bill nearly doubles the amount of funding for harbor maintenance over 10 years. This will help to address the current backlog of dredging and other maintenance projects, which is hurting businesses and stunting Great Lakes commerce. Smaller harbors used for recreational activities and tourism also receive support. The legislation includes a plan to address spending of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund by setting target funding levels to ensure all fees collected for harbor maintenance are used for that purpose by 2025. Currently only half the funds are on harbor maintenance, with the rest redirected into a general revenue fund.
05.22.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Chippewa County International Airport Runway Rehabilitation Thursday, May 22, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Chippewa County International Airport to rehabilitate its runway. The $3,384,368 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation.Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from the Upper Peninsula is vital to the state's economy," said Stabenow. "This support will help ensure that the airport can continue to keep people traveling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Transportation is at the heart of Michigan's economic competitiveness. This federal support will help keep Michigan connected to commerce and tourism throughout the United States and around the world." Tami Beseau, Chippewa County International Airport Manager, said: "Chippewa County International Airport is so thankful for this support. It will provide a substantial impact to the local community by improving safety and security at the Airport by replacing the cement surface on the main runway with asphalt. This support will help thousands of families and travelers get to and from Chippewa and the whole Upper Peninsula this summer vacation season." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
05.21.2014	World War II Vet Receives Long-overdue Bronze Star Wednesday, May 21, 2014 Senator Stabenow recently presented U.S. Army World War II veteran Floyd Monhollen with his Bronze Star at a ceremony hosted by VFW Post 552 in Lincoln Park. Monhollen joined the war effort in 1944 and served in seven countries while deployed in the European Theater. “Floyd served on the front lines as an infantry rifleman in France during the harsh winter. He endured hardships and challenges most of us cannot imagine,” Senator Stabenow said. Monhollen’s family contacted Senator Stabenow’s office for help in getting his Bronze Star, which was conferred upon him and all others who received the Combat Infantry Badge during World War II.
05.21.2014	Senator Stabenow Welcomes JPMorgan Chase Investment of $100 Million for Detroit Wednesday, May 21, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today welcomed the announcement that $100 million will be invested in Detroit over the next five years. The investment, made by JPMorgan Chase, will be used to help continue Detroit's economic comeback, revitalize neighborhoods, train residents with new skills for new jobs, and help small businesses create jobs. "Today's announcement is a reflection of the great work that is happening every day in Detroit," said Stabenow. "From helping our small businesses access capital to helping families buy a home to strengthening infrastructure development, this investment will play an important role in Detroit's future." The investment, to be made over five years, includes $40 million in long-term debt capital and $10 million in grants for community development, $25 million to help the city address blight, $12.5 million for workforce development and job training programs, $7 million for small businesses investment, and $5.5 million in infrastructure development, including the M-1 rail line.
05.19.2014	Senator Stabenow Applauds U.S. Charges Against Chinese Military Officials Accused of Cyber Espionage Monday, May 19, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs and Global Competitiveness, today applauded the announcement that the Department of Justice charged five Chinese military hackers with cyber espionage to illegally gain trade secrets. Today's indictment alleges that Chinese military officials hacked into the communications networks of U.S. businesses and the United Steelworkers Union in order to steal intellectual property and other sensitive business information. "We have seen time and time again where U.S. trade secrets and intellectual property have been stolen by hackers from China and other countries, which costs us jobs here at home," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is an important step forward and I commend Attorney General Holder and the administration for taking concrete action to address this very serious problem. We must vigorously enforce both our laws and trade agreements to make sure that U.S. trade secrets and intellectual property are not being stolen or misused, especially by foreign governments." Senator Stabenow chairs the Finance Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs and Global Competitiveness, which has jurisdiction over issues including increasing international trade to boost exports, cracking down on anti-competitive trade policies like currency manipulation, addressing customs issues to improve the flow of goods across our borders, and keeping counterfeit goods out of the United States.
05.19.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for City of Bronson to Help Purchase New Police, Public Works Vehicle Monday, May 19, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the City of Bronson Police Department and Department of Public Works. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development Community Facility Grant program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $12,000 and $18,000 grants, respectively, will be used to help purchase a new police vehicle and a dump truck with a snow blade to assist in snow removal in the winter. "Our city employees and first responders provide invaluable services to communities like the City of Bronson throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.16.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Applaud Efforts to Protect Great Lakes in Water Resources Development Act Friday, May 16, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today applauded a new agreement that makes the Great Lakes a priority. The House-Senate conference agreement on the Water Resources Development Act for the first time treats the Great Lakes as a single navigational system, increases funding for harbor maintenance, and provides broader authority for the Army Corps of Engineers to prevent breakthrough of Asian carp into the Great Lakes. To help deal with the current backlog of harbor maintenance, the bill calls for nearly doubling the amount of funding for harbor maintenance over ten years, including for smaller harbors that support recreational activities and tourism. Additionally, the bill ensures that at least 10 percent of all new national harbor funding will be set aside specifically for projects in the Great Lakes system. "This is an important step toward ensuring that the commercial importance and conservation of the Great Lakes remains a national priority," said Stabenow. "Maintaining our ports, harbors and waterways is essential to keep our economy growing. Our Great Lakes are vital to our Michigan way of life, supporting billions of dollars in commerce and hundreds of thousands of jobs." "This conference report is good for the Great Lakes," said Senator Levin. "It holds the promise of strengthening the Great Lakes navigation system, and it makes permanent the authorization of emergency measures to prevent Asian carp from entering the lakes." The conference agreement for the first time treats the entire Great Lakes as a single navigation system, helping smaller ports qualify for maintenance as part of the larger waterway system. The report also includes a plan to address spending of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, which currently only spends half of its allocations on harbor maintenance, with the rest redirected into a general revenue fund. The plan sets target funding levels to ensure all the fees collected for harbor maintenance are used for actual harbor maintenance projects by 2025. The agreement paves the way for votes in the House and Senate, which could come as early as next week.
05.16.2014	In Flint, Senator Stabenow Joins Michigan Residents to Address the Growing Student Debt Crisis, Give Borrowers a Fair Shot to Get Ahead Friday, May 16, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today joined Michigan residents in Flint to discuss her legislation that would save millions of borrowers money on their student loans and give them a fair shot to get ahead. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act would allow responsible borrowers with outstanding student loan debt, including some privates loans, incurred at past higher interest rates to refinance at the low rates currently offered only to new borrowers. This would save borrowers hundreds or even thousands of dollars a year. At a time when many students are being dragged down by their debt and forced to forego buying a house or getting married, the government is projected to make $66 billion in revenue on federal student loans made between 2007 and 2012. Sen. Stabenow said: "Too many people in Michigan are saddled with decades of debt just because they wanted a fair shot to go to college and get ahead. That is why I'm leading the effort to make college more affordable and to help borrowers who are already weighed down by exploding and unsustainable levels of student debt. Helping these borrowers will improve the lives of thousands of Michigan families and boost our economy by allowing them to spend their money on a home, a car, and the needs of their families instead of on interest payments." Christie Carpenter, Flint resident said: "As a recent graduate, I am very concerned with how I will be able to afford paying off my $70,000 in student loan debt. I am glad Sen. Stabenow has introduced legislation that will save me thousands of dollars in interest on my loans that I can use to invest in my family's future." Joe Albosta, Saginaw Twp. resident said: "While I made it through undergrad without having to take out any student loans, I was not so fortunate with law school. With over $180,000 in student loan debt, the amount of money that I am able to pay does not even cover the interest that accrues every month. I would like to thank Sen. Stabenow for introducing legislation that will help lower my interest rate and make higher education more affordable for everyone." Nathan Collison, Saginaw resident said: "My wife and I both work in public service and have over $185,000 in combined student loan debt. We appreciate Sen. Stabenow's bill that will allow us to reduce our loan debt, so we can afford to start saving for our three-year-old daughter's education." Jeff Wickman, Hemlock resident said: "In order to get my Masters in Public Administration, I needed to take federal and private student loans. Sen. Stabenow's bill will help borrowers like me save thousands of dollars that I can use to purchase a much-needed new car." According to the Project on Student Debt, Michigan ranks in the top ten of states with the highest average student loan debt. In Michigan, the average student loan debt among those who borrow to get a bachelor's degree is nearly $29,000 and 62% of Michigan students have debt when they graduate. The legislation is fully funded by enacting the Buffett Rule, which would limit special tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans that allow millionaires and billionaires to pay lower effective tax rates than middle class families. The legislation is cosponsored by Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Mark Begich (D-AK), Kirstin Gillibrand (D-NY), Al Franken (D-MN), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Maize Hirono (D-HI), Edward Markey (D-MA), and Cory Booker (D-NJ).
05.16.2014	Detroit Metro Airport Receives Support for Runway Rehabilitation Friday, May 16, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport to rehabilitate its runway. The $14,875,000 grant comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Senator Stabenow said: "Making sure passengers are able to travel to and from Southeast Michigan is vital to the state's economy," said Stabenow. "This support will help ensure that the airport can continue to keep people travelling safely and increase business activity to boost the economy." Senator Levin said: "Transportation is at the heart of Michigan's economic competitiveness. This federal support will help keep Michigan connected to commerce and tourism throughout the United States and around the world." More information on the Department of Transportation Grant program can be found at http://www.dot.gov/grants.
05.16.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Village of Lakeview to Purchase New Police Vehicle Friday, May 16, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Village of Lakeview's police department. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. The $10,500 grant will be used to help purchase a new police vehicle and equipment. "Our first responders provide lifesaving services to communities like the Village of Lakeview throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.16.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Roscommon Area Schools and First Responders Friday, May 16, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Roscommon Area Schools and first responders. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. A $20,000 grant will allow the county to purchase an 800 MHz radio booster system for Roscommon schools. A separate $12,000 grant will help purchase a new patrol car for the Gerrish Township police department. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is important for our schools," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.16.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for First Responders in Lincoln Township Friday, May 16, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for the Lincoln Township Fire Department to buy a new tanker truck. The funding comes through the USDA's Rural Development program, which funds critical infrastructure within rural communities across the country. Lincoln Township will receive a $25,000 grant and a $175,000 loan. "Our first responders provide lifesaving services to communities like Lake George throughout Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "With many rural Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is especially important. Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and rural development, which helps to maintain the quality of life across Michigan." Senator Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the USDA and its Rural Development program.
05.15.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin announce federal support for Waterford Regional Fire Department Thursday, May 15, 2014 The Waterford Regional Fire Department will receive a $170,100 federal grant to boost operations and safety, Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced. "Our firefighters provide critical services to communities across Michigan," Stabenow said. "This support will help make sure that the Waterford Fire Department has the resources it needs to protect the public." "Our emergency first responders put their lives on the line every day for us, so they deserve our full support, and this federal assistance will help Waterford's firefighters serve their community," Levin said. The competitive grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters Grants. The grant program is designed to help local emergency agencies obtain firefighting equipment, pay for training, modify facilities or for other purposes to increase firefighting capacity.
05.15.2014	Senators Stabenow and Levin announce federal support for Grand Traverse Band Thursday, May 15, 2014 The Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians will receive a $25,000 federal grant to boost fire operations and safety, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced. "Our firefighters provide critical services to communities across Northern Michigan," Stabenow said. "This support will help make sure that our first responders have the resources they need to protect the public." "Our emergency first responders put their lives on the line every day for us, so they deserve our full support, and this federal assistance will help the Grand Traverse Band serve its community," Levin said. The competitive grants come from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters Grants. The grant program is designed to help local emergency agencies obtain firefighting equipment, pay for training, modify facilities or for other purposes to increase firefighting capacity.
05.15.2014	Stabenow, Levin announce federal support for Ishpeming, Spalding Township fire departments Thursday, May 15, 2014 Fire departments in Ishpeming and Spalding Township will receive federal grants to boost operations and safety, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced. The Ishpeming Volunteer Fire Department will receive $24,013 and the Spalding Township Fire Department $65,283. "Our firefighters provide critical services to communities across Michigan," Stabenow said. "This support will help make sure that the Ishpeming and Spalding Fire Departments have the resources they need to protect the public." "Our emergency first responders put their lives on the line every day for us, so they deserve our full support, and this federal assistance will help these Upper Peninsula firefighters serve their communities," Levin said. The competitive grants come from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters Grants. The grant program is designed to help local emergency agencies obtain firefighting equipment, pay for training, modify facilities or for other purposes to increase firefighting capacity.
05.13.2014	Stabenow, Levin, Upton urge EPA to follow city’s lead on Kalamazoo Superfund site Tuesday, May 13, 2014 Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin and Rep. Fred Upton today wrote to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy, encouraging the agency to follow the wishes of local officials and citizens on cleanup of the Allied Paper Superfund Site in Kalamazoo. The lawmakers note that the City of Kalamazoo supports the total removal of an estimated 1.5 million cubic yards of PCB-contaminated waste from a landfill on the site "and is concerned about restrictions that would prevent them from developing the site" if EPA chooses to merely cap and contain the contamination. EPA has announced that a final cleanup option for the site will be proposed this year. The lawmakers also write that it is essential that EPA test the site to ensure that contamination does not migrate into nearby water sources. The full text of the letter follows: May 13, 2014The Honorable Gina McCarthyAdministratorU.S. Environmental Protection Agency1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy:We are writing in regards to the Allied Landfill, located in Kalamazoo, Michigan, which is part of the Allied Paper, Inc./Portage Creek/Kalamazoo River Superfund Site. As you know, the Allied Landfill is estimated to contain 1.5 million cubic yards of PCB-contaminated waste from historical paper mill operations, and the EPA has announced that a final remedy for the Allied site will be proposed this year. It is essential that the final remedy which is selected protects the health and safety of Kalamazoo residents and allows for the site to be redeveloped and put to good use for the community. The City of Kalamazoo strongly supports the total removal option and is concerned about restrictions that would prevent them from developing the site if the EPA chooses to merely cap and contain. The redevelopment of this site is a top priority for this community. We are concerned that redevelopment could be limited by cleanup remedies other than total removal of the waste. If one of the alternatives is selected that does not involve total removal, such as consolidation and capping or an encapsulation containment system, what restrictions would be placed on development of the site? If the PCB-contaminated material is not totally removed from the site, would it be possible to build housing, a community center or a school at the site? Would the entire site be available for development? It is important the cleanup alternative selected not restrict development at the site. The community is eager to see this property cleaned up and put back to productive use. The community is interested in using new cleanup technologies at the site that could reduce cleanup costs. We urge the EPA to work with the community to test and develop these new technologies and consider using the site as a pilot project for emerging cleanup technologies. Also, we understand that the source of Kalamazoo's drinking water is near the Allied site and is regularly tested. However, given the proximity of the Allied site to the drinking water source, it is essential that the EPA test the Allied site for contaminants and to determine whether they are migrating from the site to ground and surface water. When has EPA last conducted such sampling, testing and monitoring? What is EPA's plan for continuing to sample, test and monitor the possible migration of contaminants from the site? It is important the community continues to have a voice during the decision making process. If you have any questions about our concerns, please feel free to contact any of us or have your staff contact Alice Yates (Sen. Levin) at 202-224-6221, Joe McGarvey (Sen. Stabenow) at 202-224-4822, or Mark Ratner (Rep. Upton) at 202-225-3761. We look forward to your prompt reply. Thank you. Sincerely, Debbie StabenowU.S. Senator Carl LevinU.S. Senator Fred UptonMember of Congress
05.09.2014	Senators Stabenow and Markey Lead Bipartisan Group of 22 Senators Urging President Obama to Consider the Impact of Large-Scale Natural Gas Exports on American Manufacturing, Families Friday, May 09, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Energy Committee and co-chair of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, and Senator Edward Markey (D-Mass.), a member of the Commerce, Environment, and Foreign Relations Committees, along with an additional 20 Senators, today urged President Obama to consider the impacts on American manufacturing and families that rely on natural gas for heat when looking to approve new natural gas export facilities. In a letter to the president, Sens. Stabenow, Markey and their colleagues pointed out that families saw skyrocketing energy bills this winter in some parts of the country faced with short supplies of natural gas and propane, shortages that could be exacerbated with increased exports. They also pointed to the hundreds of thousands of American manufacturing jobs created in the last few years, in part because of low natural gas prices. Aggressive, unlimited new exports of natural gas could raise prices for families and American manufacturers. The letter reads in part: "Families and businesses depend on affordable and reliable supplies of natural gas. This winter many parts of the country faced tight supplies of propane and natural gas and families were left to face high energy bills.... Taking a longer-term view, the United States has benefited from rising supplies and lower prices for natural gas since 2008. Thanks in part to lower natural gas prices, America's manufacturing sector has created more than 600,000 jobs since 2010. The Boston Consulting Group concluded that affordable natural gas prices could lead to 5 million more manufacturing jobs by the end of the decade. We must ensure that we do not squander what is clearly an American competitive advantage right now for American manufacturers and for the American economy." The letter is signed by Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Susan Collins (R-ME), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Angus King (I-ME), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Carl Levin (D-MI), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Edward Markey (D-MA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The full text of the letter follows: May 8, 2014 President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our concern regarding the impact that large-scale exports of natural gas could have on American consumers and businesses. Families and businesses depend on affordable and reliable supplies of natural gas. This winter many parts of the country faced tight supplies of propane and natural gas and families were left to face high energy bills. During February, Henry Hub natural gas prices more than doubled to over $8 per million British thermal units and prices in some regions of the country were far higher. Our natural gas inventories are now 55 percent below the five-year average. This winter served as a reminder that high natural gas prices can hurt family budgets and be a drag on our economy. Taking a longer-term view, the United States has benefited from rising supplies and lower prices for natural gas since 2008. Thanks in part to lower natural gas prices, America's manufacturing sector has created more than 600,000 jobs since 2010. The Boston Consulting Group concluded that affordable natural gas prices could lead to 5 million more manufacturing jobs by the end of the decade. We must ensure that we do not squander what is clearly an American competitive advantage right now for American manufacturers and for the American economy. Recently, the Department of Energy approved exports of liquefied natural gas from a sixth export facility. This means that total approved exports, combined with existing and approved export pipelines, now exceeds the total amount of gas that is currently used in every single American home and commercial business. This level of exports well exceeds the "high export scenario" referenced by a Department of Energy study in 2012 that indicated prices could increase by up to 54 percent. Price increases of this scale could translate into more than $60 billion a year in higher energy costs for American consumers and businesses. Liquefied natural gas shipments to China, India, Japan, South Korea, and other Asian nations account for about 70 percent of the global trade of liquefied natural gas. Based on the contracts U.S. exporters already have in place, Asia would likely be the primary destination of U.S. natural gas exports as well. Natural gas prices in Asia are currently three to four times higher than those in the United States. Integration of U.S. and Asian natural gas markets through U.S. exports could lead to further increases in prices for American consumers and businesses, which may fundamentally reverse many of the economic benefits that have led to the current surge in manufacturing job growth in the United States. Large-scale exports of natural gas to Asia could also jeopardize America's goal of achieving energy independence, a goal made more achievable by the recent increase in domestic gas production. It is imperative, both for American jobs and for the environment, that the Department of Energy continue to consider the public interest and the cumulative impact of potential exports on U.S. consumers and businesses before granting approval of natural gas exports to countries with which the United States does not have a free trade agreement. We ask that you pay close attention to the effects that large-scale natural gas exports could have on businesses, workers, and residential consumers. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely,
05.06.2014	Senator Stabenow Condemns Kidnapping of More Than 200 Girls by Nigerian Terrorist Group, Calls for Additional International Sanctions Tuesday, May 06, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today strongly condemned the abduction and mistreatment of more than 200 girls by the terrorist group Boko Haram in Nigeria and called for additional international sanctions against the group. Boko Haram, an extremist group that rejects what it sees as the modernization of Nigeria - including the education of women, has threatened to sell the girls as slaves, and some may have already been sold into child marriages. The Senate unanimously passed a resolution today condemning the abductions. "I am outraged that these young women have been kidnapped, mistreated, and may be sold into slavery just because they were trying to get an education and build better lives for themselves," said Stabenow. "Education is a basic right, and all people should be able to pursue education without fear of violence or retribution. We stand united in condemning this horrifying act, and I urge everyone to speak out to demand that these girls be freed immediately." In a letter to President Obama, Senator Stabenow and the 19 other women in the U.S. Senate urged the United States Department of State to push the United Nations Security Council to target Boko Haram with additional sanctions. The full text of the letter follows: May 6, 2014 President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As the women of the United States Senate, we are writing to you today deeply disturbed by the abduction and mistreatment of more than 200 girls by the terrorist group Boko Haram from the Government Secondary School in Chibok, Nigeria. Boko Haram has threatened to sell the girls as slaves, and some may have already been sold into child marriages. We condemn these appalling actions in the strongest possible terms, and we agree with you that the abduction of these girls is an outrage. The girls were targeted by Boko Haram simply because they wanted to go to school and pursue knowledge, and we believe the United States must respond quickly and definitively. In the face of the brazen nature of this horrific attack, the international community must impose further sanctions on this terrorist organization. Boko Haram is a threat to innocent civilians in Nigeria, to regional security, and to U.S. national interests. The National Counterterrorism Center has found that Boko Haram has engaged in multiple attacks on Westerners and repeatedly targeted students at schools and universities, threatening the ability of young Nigerians, particularly women, to attend school. While we applaud the initial U.S. condemnation of the kidnapping, we believe there is much more that the United States government should do to make clear that such an attack will not be tolerated. We urge you to press for the addition of Boko Haram and Ansaru to the United Nations Security Council's al-Qa'ida Sanctions List, the mechanism by which international sanctions are imposed on al-Qa'ida and al-Qa'ida-linked organizations. Their addition to the List would compel a greater number of countries to sanction Boko Haram, joining several countries, including the United States, which have already done so. The Department of State reported that Boko Haram has links to al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb when it designated the group as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, and General David Rodriguez, Commander of U.S. Africa Command, has described these links before Congress. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to working together until girls and women worldwide can pursue an education without fear of violence or intimidation. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski, United States SenatorSusan M. Collins, United States SenatorKelly Ayotte, United States SenatorTammy Baldwin, United States SenatorBarbara Boxer, United States SenatorMaria Cantwell, United States SenatorDianne Feinstein, United States SenatorDeb Fischer, United States SenatorKirsten Gillibrand, United States SenatorKay Hagan, United States SenatorHeidi Heitkamp, United States SenatorMazie Hirono, United States SenatorAmy Klobuchar, United States SenatorMary Landrieu, United States SenatorClaire McCaskill, United States SenatorLisa Murkowski, United States SenatorPatty Murray, United States SenatorJeanne Shaheen, United States SenatorDebbie Stabenow, United States SenatorElizabeth Warren, United States Senator
05.06.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support to Improve Electric Service for Residents, Businesses Across Central Upper Peninsula Tuesday, May 06, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support to improve electric service to businesses and residents in the central Upper Peninsula. The support comes through the USDA's rural utilities program and will help replace aging electric lines, build new lines to reach new residents, and support smart grid projects that can help reduce electric consumption and protect the electric grid to improve service. Senator Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill continued support for infrastructure improvements in rural America and investments in the rural economy, including helping rural utilities assist customers in making energy efficient improvements at their homes and businesses. "Having functioning, affordable and reliable electric service is vitally important for rural communities like those in the UP," said Stabenow. "This support will connect UP families to the grid, improve their service and help keep our economy growing." Alger-Delta Cooperative Electric Association will receive a $7 million loan guarantee to build or improve over 100 miles of electric line and make system improvements. The funding will also support smart grid projects and improve service for Native Americans living in the area.
05.06.2014	Senator Stabenow Fighting to Make College More Affordable Tuesday, May 06, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today joined Senator Elizabeth Warren to introduce legislation that would save millions of borrowers money on their student loans. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act would allow responsible borrowers with outstanding student loan debt, including some privates loans, incurred at past higher interest rates to refinance at the low rates currently offered only to new borrowers. This would save borrowers hundreds or even thousands of dollars a year. At a time when many students are being dragged down by their debt and forced to forego buying a house or getting married, the government is projected to make $66 billion in revenue on federal student loans made between 2007 and 2012. "Too many people in Michigan are saddled with decades of debt just because they wanted a fair shot to go to college and get ahead," said Stabenow. "That is why I'm fighting alongside Sen. Warren and my other colleagues to make college more affordable and to help borrowers who are already weighed down by exploding and unsustainable levels of student debt. Helping these borrowers will improve the lives of millions of Americans and boost our economy by allowing them to spend their money on a home, a car, and the needs of their families instead of on interest payments." There are nearly 40 million Americans with outstanding student loans. The Bank on Students Emergency Refinancing Act could lower payments for millions of people by hundreds or even thousands of dollars a year. The average student loan debt among those who borrow to get a bachelor's degree is nearly $30,000 and many borrowers are stuck with unsustainable levels of student debt for two and even three decades of their lives. The legislation is fully funded by enacting the Buffett Rule, which would limit special tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans that allow millionaires and billionaires to pay lower effective tax rates than middle class families. The legislation is cosponsored by Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Mark Begich (D-AK), Kirstin Gillibrand (D-NY), Al Franken (D-MN), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Edward Markey (D-MA), and Cory Booker (D-NJ).
05.05.2014	Senator Stabenow Announces Support for the City of Clare to Equip Police Vehicles Monday, May 05, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced support for the City of Clare to purchase new equipment for five patrol vehicles. This project will help serve 3,071 rural Michiganders. The support, made available through a U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development Economic Impact Initiative Grant, will help the City of Clare update its fleet of police cruisers. Senator Stabenow said: "Our first responders provide critical services to rural communities like Clare throughout Michigan. This support will help the City of Clare's Police Department continue to keep the public safe." The City of Clare will receive $9,000. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
05.01.2014	Senator Stabenow, Representative Peters Introduce Bill to Help Small Businesses Grow and Create Jobs Thursday, May 01, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin and U.S. Representative Gary Peters today introduced the Small Business Access to Capital Act, which would reauthorize and improve the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) to help small businesses grow and create jobs. The legislation builds on the successful SSBCI initiative created by the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010. The effort has made nearly $70 million available to Michigan - the most of any state in the country - to help small businesses access capital. Sens. Stabenow, Levin and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced the bill in the Senate, while Rep. Peters introduced the House version of the bill. "Small businesses create the majority of new jobs, and when small business owners can access capital, they can expand their businesses and keep the economy growing," Senator Stabenow said. "Just last week, I toured a metal stamping business in Detroit that was able to buy new equipment and hire new workers thanks to the State Small Business Credit Initiative, just one of many success stories from across Michigan. I'm so pleased to be joining with my colleagues Rep. Gary Peters and Sens. Jeanne Shaheen and Carl Levin to build on this successful program that we authored in 2010." "SSBCI is helping businesses in Michigan and across the country get access to the financing they need to operate, expand and create jobs," Senator Levin said. "Building on its successes means more economic growth and more opportunity for American workers." "Small businesses create jobs, grow our economy and strengthen our middle class," Congressman Peters said. "That is why I am proud to introduce the next phase of the State Small Business Credit Initiative because it has already helped thousands of small businesses get the investment they need to grow and add jobs leading to millions of dollars in increased economic activity in Michigan and across the country." The Small Business Access to Capital Act will help small businesses better access capital for growth and expansion by leveraging billions of dollars in private investments through state-led initiatives funded by the SSBCI. Created as part of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, SSBCI has already helped small businesses create jobs and promoted billions of dollars in private sector small business lending. The bill builds on the initial program's success while meeting the demand states and small businesses have been calling for by providing an additional $500 million in formula funds to all states based on the 2010 law. The newly introduced SSBCI bill will also create a new, competitive $1 billion pool of funding for states that have already capitalized on funding from the 2010 program.
05.01.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Firefighter Grants for Ann Arbor, Armada and Detroit Thursday, May 01, 2014 Three Southeast Michigan fire departments will each receive a grant from the Department of Homeland Security to help improve their operations and boost safety for their emergency personnel and the public, Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. Ann Arbor Charter Township Fire Department will receive $89,186, Armada Township Fire Department will receive $24,206, and Detroit Fire Department will receive $1,176,300 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Our firefighters provide critical, courageous service to communities across Southeast Michigan," said Stabenow. "This support will help make sure the Detroit, Ann Arbor Charter Township, and Armada Township Fire Departments have the resources they need to protect the public." "Communities everywhere turn to their fire departments for emergencies large and small," Levin said. "These grants will help provide needed assistance to the firefighters and EMTs of Ann Arbor, Armada and Detroit who stand ready every day to put their lives on the line for their communities." The awards announced today are for operations and safety improvements, and can fund items such as professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective gear for firefighters, facilities improvements, and supplies that support firefighting and EMS operations. Fire departments and emergency medical services (EMS) organizations across the country may apply to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in different categories, and their applications must meet certain criteria established by the major fire service organizations. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
05.01.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Onondaga Fire Department Thursday, May 01, 2014 Onondaga Fire Department will receive a grant from the Department of Homeland Security to help improve their operations and boost safety for their emergency personnel and the public, Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The department will receive $119,434 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Our firefighters provide critical, courageous service to communities across Mid-Michigan," said Stabenow. "This support will help make sure the Onondaga Fire Department has the resources it needs to protect the public." "Communities everywhere turn to their fire departments for emergencies large and small," Levin said. "This grant will help provide needed assistance to the firefighters and EMTs of Onondaga Fire Department who stand ready every day to put their lives on the line for their community." The awards announced today are for operations and safety improvements, and can fund items such as professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective gear for firefighters, facilities improvements, and supplies that support firefighting and EMS operations. Fire departments and emergency medical services (EMS) organizations across the country may apply to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in different categories, and their applications must meet certain criteria established by the major fire service organizations. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
05.01.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grant for Sherman Township Fire Department Thursday, May 01, 2014 Sherman Township Fire Department will receive a grant from the Department of Homeland Security to help improve their operations and boost safety for their emergency personnel and the public, Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The department will receive $24,843 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Our firefighters provide critical, courageous service to communities across Michigan," said Stabenow. "This support will help make sure the Sherman Township Fire Department has the resources it needs to protect the public." "Communities everywhere turn to their fire departments for emergencies large and small," Levin said. "This grant will help provide needed assistance to the firefighters and EMTs of Sherman Township Fire Department who stand ready every day to put their lives on the line for their community." The awards announced today are for operations and safety improvements, and can fund items such as professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective gear for firefighters, facilities improvements, and supplies that support firefighting and EMS operations. Fire departments and emergency medical services (EMS) organizations across the country may apply to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in different categories, and their applications must meet certain criteria established by the major fire service organizations. Applications are evaluated in a competitive process by a panel of peers from fire and EMS organizations. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants.
04.30.2014	Senate Republicans Block Legislation to Raise Minimum Wage for Millions of American Families Wednesday, April 30, 2014 Senate Republicans today filibustered a vote to raise the minimum wage for millions of American families. U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow voted to move forward on the Minimum Wage Fairness Act, legislation she cosponsored that would increase the minimum wage to $10.10 per hour. While a majority of senators voted to move forward on the bill, Republicans refused to allow consideration of the bill, which would help lift millions of American families out of poverty. "Right now, many people working full-time jobs that pay the minimum wage are living below the poverty line," said Stabenow. "Raising the wage gives a fair shot to people who are trying to provide for their families. It is disappointing that some of my colleagues don't understand what Henry Ford understood 100 years ago - that when you pay people decent wages, you create customers and you create a middle class. Our economy is not going to work if we have people working full-time jobs are still living in poverty and unable to provide for their families." The federal minimum wage has not been raised in five years. Currently, a full-time worker earning the minimum wage only earns around $15,000 a year - approximately $4,000 below the poverty level for a family of three. More than half of those working for the minimum wage are women, and the average minimum wage worker is 35 years old. While working families are struggling to stay afloat, the average CEO makes the same amount of money as 774 minimum wage workers' salaries combined. The Minimum Wage Fairness Act would reward hard work and create more opportunities so women, children and families across America have a fair shot to succeed and build the lives they want. Raising the minimum wage also stands to benefit the economy as whole. Putting more money into the pockets of workers will create more customers for businesses large and small, which in turn can hire more workers and increase the pay of those they already employ. This will help grow the economy as a whole and boost wages for all workers. According to the Economic Policy Institute, 641,000 Michigan workers would be directly affected by increasing the federal minimum wage to $10.10 per hour, and another 299,000 workers would also likely see their wages rise. A recent study by the Center for American Progress found that a $10.10 minimum wage would reduce spending on food assistance (SNAP) in Michigan by more than $205 million annually and would reduce the SNAP rolls by more than 110,000 people because higher wages will lift them out of poverty. Nationally, it would save $46 billion and reduce the SNAP rolls by more than three million people.
04.30.2014	Senator Stabenow Leads Bipartisan Women Senators Urging Administration to Protect Women’s Health in Medical Trials Wednesday, April 30, 2014 In advance of Mother's Day, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today led a group of bipartisan women senators in standing up for women's health to make sure medical treatments are safe and effective for women. In a letter to the Food and Drug Administration, the senators urged that more women and minorities be included in clinical trials to ensure accurate information on the safety and effectiveness of new drugs and medical devices is made available. Women and minorities are not fairly represented in the testing of medical treatments, even though they can react differently to some treatments. The FDA will issue an action plan this summer detailing how it plans to increase the number of women and minorities in clinical trials as required by Sen. Stabenow's bipartisan HEART for Women Act, which was signed into law in 2012. The letter reads, in part: "Although two decades have passed since FDA published its guideline requiring analysis of data on sex differences in the evaluation of new drugs, we remain concerned about recent evidence that women still are not being adequately represented in clinical trials. As a result, medical treatments may not be as safe and effective for women as they may expect.... The Action Plan represents a key opportunity to address these concerns. We hope that, 20 years from now, we can look back and say that the FDA's plan was a significant milestone in women's health - not a missed opportunity." The letter is signed by Sens. Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Kay Hagan (D-NC), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Patty Murray (D-WA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Margaret Hamburg, M.D.Commissioner of Food and DrugsFood and Drug Administration10903 New Hampshire AveSilver Spring, MD 20993-0002 Dear Dr. Hamburg: As the FDA works on the Action Plan required by Section 907 of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA), we are writing to urge that this plan recommend clear and actionable strategies to improve the representation of women and minorities in clinical research, ensure that meaningful subgroup analyses are conducted, and make subgroup-specific clinical trial results publicly available and accessible. We are strong supporters of this provision and view the Action Plan as a critical opportunity to provide women and minorities with confidence that prescription drugs and medical devices are safe and effective for their use. Although two decades have passed since FDA published its guideline requiring analysis of data on sex differences in the evaluation of new drugs, we remain concerned about recent evidence that women still are not being adequately represented in clinical trials. As a result, medical treatments may not be as safe and effective for women as they may expect. A February 60 Minutes story highlighted the recent example of the drug Ambien, which metabolizes differently in women and men - meaning that women have been unsuspectingly receiving an inappropriately high dose of the drug for years. A March report by researchers at the Brigham and Women's Hospital, entitled, "Sex-Specific Medical Research: Why Women's Health Can't Wait," underscores how women are disproportionately affected by diseases such as lung cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer's, and depression, even while the medical treatments available to them were tested largely in men. Finally, the FDA's own August 2013 report required by FDASIA showed that, while progress has been made, gaps still remain in the full representation of women in clinical trials, analysis of the safety and effectiveness data by sex, and making information about treatment differences readily available to women and their healthcare providers. The Action Plan represents a key opportunity to address these concerns. We hope that, 20 years from now, we can look back and say that the FDA's plan was a significant milestone in women's health - not a missed opportunity. We encourage the FDA to incorporate the following recommendations into the Action Plan: • Require that representative proportions of women and minorities be included in industry-sponsored clinical trials comparable to what NIH required two decades ago.• Spell out the specific actions that FDA will take, in cooperation with industry stakeholders, in order to achieve meaningful subgroup-specific analyses for safety and efficacy, along with clear timelines for enforcement while ensuring that clinical trials are not unnecessarily disrupted and making the results transparent and publicly available.• Put in place a process for tracking and publicly reporting on the progress in implementing the Action Plan on a regular basis and for taking further action as needed to achieve equitable representation. Thank you for your consideration of our comments. We want to be as helpful as possible in working with you to produce an aggressive Action Plan that furthers our goal of better understanding how disease and treatments for disease affect women and minorities differently.
04.22.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Over $5 Million for City of Norway Water Project Tuesday, April 22, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced that the City of Norway will receive $5.6 million to support necessary improvements to its water and wastewater system. This major investment is part of Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, which increased funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development Water and Environmental programs. President Obama signed the Farm Bill into law at Michigan State University in February. "The 2014 Farm Bill increased support to improve rural water infrastructure and help communities across Michigan grow and thrive," said Stabenow. "Today's announcement is great news for families and small businesses in the City of Norway and Norway Township who rely on a safe, clean water supply in their community." The City of Norway will receive a $1,154,000 grant and $1,651,000 loan through USDA Rural Development to fund necessary improvements to the existing wastewater system. The City will also receive a $2,807,000 loan to fund improvements to the water system. Sen. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
04.17.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support to Enhance Battle Creek Fire Department’s Operations and Safety Thursday, April 17, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Battle Creek Fire Department. The grant comes through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Stabenow said, "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Battle Creek. This support makes sure they have the resources they need to perform their duties safely and protect the public." Senator Levin said, "Battle Creek firefighters stand ready to protect lives and property in their community 24/7. This grant will support the firefighters and EMS personnel of Battle Creek Fire Department and help them in their vital mission of keeping their community safe." The department will receive a $74,648 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Assistance to Firefighters grant program. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is a part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These competitive grants will help fund professional training programs, update equipment and facilities, and provide new supplies to help first-responders handle hazards efficiently and effectively. More information about the grant can be found at http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.17.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for Michigan Fruit, Vegetable and Nursery Producers Thursday, April 17, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced the availability of over $1.9 million to support fruit, vegetable, and nursery producers. The funding, which comes through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Specialty Crop Block Grant Program, is a direct result of the 2014 Farm Bill's significant investment in healthy, locally grown food. President Obama signed Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill at Michigan State University in February. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "The 2014 Farm Bill makes an unprecedented investment in fruits and vegetables and gives Michigan families better access to local and healthy food options, which will be a boost to our economy. Today's announcement provides Michigan growers with the tools they need to more effectively sell their products at local and regional farmers' markets, protect their crops from pests and disease, and develop better production practices." In 2008, Senator Stabenow authored the first ever fruits and vegetables section of a Farm Bill to provide support for so-called "specialty crops" which includes fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, nursery products and floriculture. These crops are critical to the state's economy as Michigan leads the nation in producing a wider diversity of crops than any state other than California. Prior to 2008, farm bills focused largely on traditional commodity crops but had no section dedicated to fruits and vegetables. The 2014 Farm Bill strengthens support for specialty crops and makes major investments in organic crops and local and regional food systems. For more information, click here. Specialty crop block grants are allocated to U.S. States and territories based on a formula of specialty crop acreage and value. The deadline to submit applications to Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development for this funding was April 11.
04.15.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Urges Michigan Farmers, Ranchers and Growers to Sign-up for Strengthened Disaster Assistance Tuesday, April 15, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, announced that starting today eligible farmers and ranchers in Michigan can sign up for federal disaster assistance. The support, including the Livestock Indemnity Program, the Livestock Forage Disaster Program, the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program, and the Tree Assistance Program, is made possible by Chairwoman Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, which President Obama signed at Michigan State University in February. "No family should lose the farm or the ranch because of a few days of bad weather," said Stabenow. "While nothing can replace the livestock, crops and trees that are lost or damaged, this assistance will help provide much-needed support for our Michigan farmers, ranchers and growers. I urge those affected to take advantage of these strengthened protections included in the bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill." Farmers and ranchers wishing to sign up for retroactive assistance and protection for potential 2014 losses can begin the process today. Producers have between three and nine months to apply, depending on the program and the year losses were incurred. For more information, please click here or contact your local Farm Service Agency.
04.09.2014	Senate Republicans Block Passage of Paycheck Fairness Act Wednesday, April 09, 2014 Senate Republicans today filibustered the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation cosponsored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow that would help reduce gender discrimination in pay. While the measure received a majority of votes, it was once again unable to overcome Republican opposition. "It is outrageous that in 2014 some in Congress apparently still think that women don't deserve to earn the same amount as a man for doing the same job," said Stabenow. "Women don't get a 23-percent discount at the grocery store or the gas pump, so they shouldn't be getting a discount on their wages, either. We need to give women and their families a fair shot to get ahead in life by making sure that women finally receive equal pay for equal work." The Paycheck Fairness Act would build on the progress of the Equal Pay Act, passed more than 50 years ago, and the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the first law signed by President Obama after he took office in 2009. The Paycheck Fairness Act would reduce gender discrimination in pay by empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, closing loopholes courts have created in the law, creating strong incentives for employers to obey the laws and strengthening federal outreach and enforcement efforts. President Obama signed two executive orders yesterday that will help protect the employees of federal contractors from gender discrimination in pay by allowing workers to discuss their wages with one another without fear of retaliation and by requiring contractors to disclose information about wages by gender and race. According to the National Partnership for Women and Families, gender discrimination in pay costs the average working woman in Michigan $13,125 per year, which is enough to buy 107 weeks worth of food, pay the mortgage and utilities for 11 months, or purchase 3,543 gallons of gas.
04.08.2014	Agriculture Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Support for City of Vassar Police Department to Buy New Police Vehicle Tuesday, April 08, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced a Rural Development Grant for the City of Vassar Police Department. The grant, made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Initiative Community Facilities Grant Program, will be used to help purchase a new police vehicle for the City of Vassar Police Department to help them serve and protect local residents. "We depend on our men and women in uniform to be there in times of crisis, and they depend on us for the support they need to do their jobs," said Stabenow. "This funding will help the Vassar Police Department perform their duties and protect the public." The police department will receive $10,000 to help replace its current vehicle. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
04.08.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement on Equal Pay Day, Presidential Executive Orders on Equal Pay Tuesday, April 08, 2014 Today, April 8, marks Equal Pay Day, the day when women's earnings finally catch up to those of men. Because of gender discrimination in pay, women nationally, on average, still earn only 77 cents on the dollar compared to men. Women must work one year, three months and 8 days - more than three months into the current year - to earn the same amount a man earned during just the 12 months of 2013. "We need to give women and their families a fair shot to get ahead in life by making sure that women finally receive equal pay for equal work," said Stabenow. "I want to thank President Obama for taking action today to help protect the employees of federal contractors from pay discrimination. Now it's time for Congress to act and to make sure that all Americans have the tools they need to protect themselves from this terrible form of discrimination and hold those responsible accountable. Ending gender discrimination in pay is not a partisan issue; it's just the right thing to do in order to create an economy that works for all Americans, not just the privileged and the powerful." President Obama today signed two executive orders that will help protect the employees of federal contractors from gender discrimination in pay by allowing workers to discuss their wages with one another without fear of retaliation and by requiring contractors to disclose information about wages by gender and race. Tomorrow, the Senate will vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act (S. 2199), a measure co-sponsored by Sen. Stabenow. The Paycheck Fairness Act builds on the progress of the Equal Pay Act, passed more than 50 years ago, and the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the first law signed by President Obama after he took office in 2009. The Paycheck Fairness Act will help reduce gender discrimination in pay by empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, closing loopholes courts have created in the law, creating strong incentives for employers to obey the laws and strengthening federal outreach and enforcement efforts. According to the National Partnership for Women and Families, gender discrimination in pay costs the average working woman in Michigan $13,125 per year, which is enough to buy 107 weeks worth of food, pay the mortgage and utilities for 11 months, or purchase 3,543 gallons of gas.
04.07.2014	Senate Votes to Extend Emergency Unemployment Insurance Monday, April 07, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today voted with a bipartisan group of Senators to pass a 5 month extension of emergency unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who are looking for work. The legislation passed today will restore temporary insurance for the 106,200 people in Michigan who lost this critical support. The extension is retroactive to December, 2013, when emergency unemployment insurance expired, and continues through the end of May. "This support is the last lifeline for those out of work through no fault of their own," said Stabenow. "I am glad the Senate was finally able to come together and help tens of thousands of Michigan families put food on the table, keep the heat on and keep a roof over their heads while they look for a job. These families have been cut off from this vital support for more than three months now and it is critical that the House act on this bipartisan measure without further delay." Extended unemployment insurance has historically been passed on a bipartisan basis during economic downturns to help families struggling to find work and to help bolster the economy. Emergency unemployment insurance was passed in the heart of the recent downturn in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as unemployment has remained above average. While the economy has been recovering over the past several years, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began and there are still three unemployed people looking for work for every one job available. When President Bush first signed extended unemployment benefits in 2008, the national unemployment rate was 5.6%.
04.04.2014	16 Rural Michigan Counties Receive Support for Schools and Roads Friday, April 04, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced over $3.1 million in federal funding to support public schools and roads in 16 Michigan counties. The funding comes through the U.S. Forest Service's Secure Rural Schools program, which provides payments to communities where national forestland is located. The payments are a way for counties to share the profits generated from logging and timber sales in Michigan's Huron-Manistee, Hiawatha, and Ottawa National Forests. Senator Stabenow's committee has jurisdiction over the U.S. Forest Service. "With many Michigan communities facing serious budget cuts, this support is important for our public schools and for maintaining our roads," said Senator Stabenow. "Today's announcement reinforces the partnership between our local communities and our National Forests, which are an important part of our way of life." Secure Rural Schools payments may be used for supporting public schools and public roads. Funding can also be used for projects that protect and restore forestland and wildlife habitat. Senator Stabenow also led the effort to secure funding through the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program in the 2014 Farm Bill, which supports critical services such as firefighting and police protection and construction of schools and roads. The 2014 Farm Bill included a one-year extension of PILT to ensure that the Department of the Interior will continue to make annual payments to local governments for tax-exempt federal lands. Michigan received $4.2 million in payments in FY 2013 for 2.2 million acres of federal land. Secure Rural Schools payments will go to the following Michigan counties: County PaymentAlger $269,839Baraga $84,905Chippewa $408,975Crawford $66,693Delta $326,770Gogebic $456,839Mackinac $168,607Manistee $137,356Marquette $23,767Mecosta $5,897Montcalm $3,860Newaygo $195,001Ogemaw $37,074Ontonagon $448,720Oscoda $306,560Wexford $177,724TOTAL $3,118,587
04.03.2014	Senator Stabenow Appointed Chair of Finance Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs and Global Competitiveness Thursday, April 03, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, today announced her appointment as Chair of the Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs and Global Competitiveness. Senator Stabenow previously served as Chair of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Energy, Natural Resources and Infrastructure. "This is a critical time for our economy, and it is critical that we have the right trade policies to open up new markets and help American businesses create jobs in our country. Michigan is home to the busiest border crossings in North America, and we know the importance of exporting our products, not our jobs. This position gives Michigan a stronger voice in discussions about America's trade policies." The Subcommittee has jurisdiction over issues critical to Michigan, including increasing international trade to increase exports, cracking down on anti-competitive trade policies like currency manipulation, addressing customs issues to improve the flow of goods across our borders, and keeping counterfeit goods out of the United States. Senator Stabenow has also been named to the Joint Committee on Taxation, an independent committee responsible for investigating various aspects of the Federal tax system and preparing official revenue estimates of legislation before Congress.
04.03.2014	Senator Stabenow Measure to Protect Homeowners from Higher Taxes Passes Senate Finance Committee Thursday, April 03, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, today praised Committee passage of her Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act, bipartisan legislation that protects underwater homeowners from being hit with huge, unfair tax bills by the IRS. Her provision, included in legislation to extend expiring tax provisions (the EXPIRE Act), ensures that homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their homes are now worth would not be hit with additional income tax if a portion of their mortgage is forgiven as part of an agreement with their lender. Without Sen. Stabenow's legislation, homeowners - for the first time since housing crisis began - would be required to pay taxes on this phantom income when they refinance or sell their homes in what are commonly called short sales. "We should not be giving banks a tax break for the mortgage relief they offer to struggling homeowners and then send middle-class families a big tax bill," said Stabenow. "I'm glad we were able to come together in a bipartisan way to protect millions of Americans, including hundreds of thousands of people in Michigan, from being hit with an unfair tax bill so large that it could cause them to lose their homes. This legislation is a top priority and it's critical for Congress to act immediately and help the millions of families who just want a fair shot to do the right thing, get caught up on their payments, and stay in their homes." Stabenow's amendment will extend the moratorium on taxing mortgage forgiveness through the end of 2015. The historic collapse of housing markets from which we are still recovering has forced many families to sell their homes for less than they paid for them, and sometimes for less than their mortgage balance. Others may be stuck in mortgages that are tens of thousands of dollars or more larger than what their homes are now worth. Before Congress enacted Senator Stabenow's legislation in 2007 in response to the housing crisis, the IRS taxed loan forgiveness provided to homeowners as income, meaning underwater families were hit with a tax bill on money the family never saw. These unfair tax bills could be substantial enough to cause families to lose their homes. At the same time, permanent tax law allows banks that are required to provide relief to homeowners to write off the costs from their taxes. Senator Stabenow championed the original legislation that protected homeowners from this tax on phantom income. However, that legislation expired at the end of 2012. Senators Stabenow and Dean Heller (R-NV) led a bipartisan group of senators in introducing legislation last year to continue this protection for homeowners through the end of 2015. Companion legislation in the House has wide bipartisan support but the Ways and Means Committee has not acted upon it. According to the Urban Institute, the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act has provided tax relief to more than 7 million families. With an estimated 6.4 million homeowners still underwater on their mortgages-including 250,000 Michigan families-- it is critical that the law be extended to provide certainty to families, our housing markets, and our overall economy. The legislation is supported by industry and consumer groups alike - from the National Association of Realtors and Mortgage Bankers Association, to more than 200 community-based groups and consumer organizations, like National Consumer Law Center. 42 of the nation's attorneys general, Democrats and Republicans, have also joined in calling upon Congress to act quickly on this legislation.
04.01.2014	President Obama Signs Senator Stabenow’s Excellence in Mental Health Act Into Law Tuesday, April 01, 2014 In one of the most significant steps forward in community mental health funding in decades, President Obama today signed into law a demonstration project of U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow's Excellence in Mental Health Act. Sen. Stabenow's bipartisan legislation, introduced with Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO), expands access to community mental health services and strengthens the quality of care provided for those living with mental illness. "Today is the last step in enacting this landmark advance in community mental health funding, but it's just the first step on the road to making this program a reality in communities across the country," said Stabenow. "I look forward to working closely with the administration as they select and implement the demonstration projects funded by this legislation." The version of the legislation, included in the Protecting Access to Medicare Act, establishes pilot programs in eight states to increase access to community mental health centers and improve the quality of care at those centers. Those programs could then be extended to other states. The Excellence in Mental Health Act was cosponsored by a bipartisan group of Senators including Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Jack Reed (D-RI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Susan Collins (R-ME), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Jon Tester (D-MT), Mark Begich (D-AK), Chris Coons (D-DE), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ed Markey (D-MA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The bill is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Healthcare, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others.
03.31.2014	Congress Passes Landmark Step Forward in Community Mental Health Funding Authored by Senator Stabenow Monday, March 31, 2014 The Senate today passed a demonstration project of U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow's Excellence in Mental Health Act, which she introduced last year with Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO). Stabenow's legislation, one of the most significant steps forward in mental health funding in decades, expands access to community mental health services and strengthens the quality of care provided for those living with mental illness. The version of the legislation, included in the Protecting Access to Medicare Act, establishes pilot programs in eight states to increase access to community mental health centers and improve the quality of care at those centers. Those programs could then be extended to other states. The bill, passed by the House of Representatives last week, now heads to President Obama for his signature. Senator Debbie Stabenow, said: "Today's vote is a landmark step forward in the effort to expand community mental health services for people living with mental illness and reduce the stigma around mental illness. This is a critically important issue that touches all of our families in some way and this legislation is one of the most significant steps in decades to expand access to care. I'm glad that the both the House and the Senate were able to come together and act in a bipartisan way to strengthen mental health services." Malkia Newman, Board Chair, Oakland County Community Mental Health Authority, said: "I lived over 30 years with undiagnosed Bi-Polar Disorder. But my life is a testament to the fact that recovery is possible, thanks to the services and supports that I received through Community Network Services, a core provider agency for the Oakland County Community Mental Health Authority. I am so happy to be here today with all of these supporters who have worked so hard to make increased access to treatment a reality. Thank you Congress, for passing this bill so that everyone can get the mental health help they need." Faustino Venzor, who is living with mental illness and receiving treatment, said: "I have struggled with manic depression for most of my adult life, after an acute psychiatric crisis in 2001. I was saved that day by quick action taken by my mother and by a community clinic where I was taken to receive treatment. Today, I am grateful to be in recovery, I have a loving wife and a three-month old baby, and I've been admitted to Columbia University in hopes of pursuing medicine. I know firsthand the difference that intensive community-based services can make in the lives of people with serious mental illness, which is why I support the Excellence in Mental Health Act." Linda Rosenberg, President and CEO of National Council for Behavioral Health, said: "This represents the largest single federal investment in community-based mental and substance use treatment in well over a generation. After decades of devastating funding cuts, this represents a turning point in terms of federal support of community mental health services." Alexander Nicholson, Legislative Director, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, said: "This important legislation is a huge step forward in strengthening community mental health so that more veterans will have access to the mental health resources they need. Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America members from across the country visited Capitol Hill last week to urge Congress to support efforts to strengthen mental health services for veterans and help reduce suicide among veterans. We stand with Senators Stabenow and Blunt and thank them for their effort to make sure that veterans, and all Americans living with mental illness, can get access to the treatment they need." Dr. Barbara Van Dahlen, Founder and President, Give An Hour, said: "As we continue to address the mental health needs of our military and veteran community, we must remember that one size doesn't fit all. Some who come home with the understandable invisible injuries of war will seek services through the Department of Veterans Affairs, some will seek care through organizations like Give an Hour. And others will seek the treatment and support that they need and deserve from their local community mental health centers. The Excellence in Mental Health Act is critical legislation that will help ensure that those who serve are able to access quality mental health care where they live, when they need it." Sheriff Mike Chapman, Sheriff of Loudon County, VA, said: "As Loudoun's Sheriff and a member of the Major County Sheriffs' Association, I am excited to see this bill advance. The Excellence in Mental Health Act will go a long way in helping those in need and greatly benefit our law enforcement and support communities." Sheriff Brian Gootkin, Sheriff of Gallatin County, MT, said: "I am proud to stand with this great group of legislators and supporters to applaud the passage of the Excellence in Mental Health Act. I've been in law enforcement since 1993, and in the Air Force before that, and I've seen how dire the consequences can be when those living with mental illness and their families do not get the care they need. That is why it is more important than ever that we strengthen our community mental health services across the nation. I'm glad that Congress was able to put aside party politics and come together to help those living with mental illness." Jacob Angel, Founder and Executive Director of the Military Mental Health Project, said: "Mental illness is something that transcends the boundaries of race, gender and class; it is an issue that affects all communities in some way. The strengthening and expansion of mental health services in the United States should be and must be a top priority. Today lawmakers have taken a crucial first step toward achieving true parity between physical and mental health care." Center for American Progress Action Fund said: "The Excellence in Mental Health Act represents an important step forward for families struggling to obtain quality mental health care for their loved ones. It will make care more available in communities across the country so those living with mental illness will be able to get the help that they need." The Excellence in Mental Health Act was cosponsored by a bipartisan group of Senators including Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Jack Reed (D-RI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Susan Collins (R-ME), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Jon Tester (D-MT), Mark Begich (D-AK), Chris Coons (D-DE), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ed Markey (D-MA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The bill is supported by over 50 mental health organizations, veterans organizations and law enforcement organizations including: the National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Council for Behavioral Healthcare, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Mental Health America, National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and Give An Hour, among many others.
03.27.2014	House Passes Version of Sen. Stabenow’s Bipartisan Excellence in Mental Health Act Thursday, March 27, 2014 The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a demonstration project of U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow's bipartisan Excellence in Mental Health Act. The legislation expands access to community mental health services and strengthens the quality of care provided for those living with mental illness Sen. Debbie Stabenow, said: "This is a critically important issue that touches all of our families in some way. I'm glad that the House was able to come together and act in a bipartisan way to strengthen mental health services. This is a step forward in the effort to reduce the stigma around mental illness and expand community mental health services for people living with mental illness. I hope the Senate will act quickly to make sure those living with mental illness can get the care they need to live successful lives." The version of the legislation, included as an amendment to the House's so-called "doc-fix" (SGR) bill, establishes pilot programs in eight states to increase access to community mental health centers and improve the quality of care at those centers. Those programs could then be extended to other states. The bill now heads for a final vote in the Senate, where a version of the Excellence in Mental Health Act was passed as an amendment in the Senate Finance Committee.
03.27.2014	Senate Passes Ukraine Aid Package Thursday, March 27, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement on the Senate vote on an aid package for Ukraine: "I have spoken with leaders of the Ukrainian community in Michigan, and this is personal for them and their families," said Stabenow. "We must stand with the people of Ukraine and our allies in Europe against the outrageous actions of Russia and President Putin. I am hopeful we can get aid to the people of Ukraine as soon as possible."
03.26.2014	World Trade Organization Rules in Favor of U.S. Challenge to China's Illegal Restrictions on Rare Earth Elements Wednesday, March 26, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today applauded U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman for winning a case before the World Trade Organization on China's illegal restrictions on the export of rare earth minerals. Rare earth materials are important components in many U.S. made-products, including hybrid car batteries, wind turbines, energy efficient lighting, and automobiles. Senator Stabenow was among the first to urge the Administration to address this problem and take WTO action against China on the matter. "Today's ruling is great news for American manufacturers and researchers building the next generation of advanced technologies. China clearly violated WTO rules, and I applaud the U.S. Trade Representative for taking this enforcement action against China's illegal export restrictions of these critically important raw materials," said Sen. Stabenow. "Today's victory is a reminder of how important trade enforcement is, and we need to continue cracking down on other countries' anti-competitive practices, like currency manipulation, to help American workers and businesses compete and win in the global economy." China's export restrictions on rare earth elements hurts American production in a wide range of industries - from hi-tech batteries for advanced technology vehicles, to smart phone batteries to important military technologies. China now controls production of more than 90% percent of the world's supply of these rare minerals-and has increasingly been using export controls to reduce the amount available on the world market. This in turn has sent costs skyrocketing for businesses that manufacture products that require rare earth elements. China also has policies to prevent foreign companies from mining rare earth elements within its borders. Senator Stabenow has been a leading voice to stand up for U.S. businesses and workers by including enforceable measures against currency manipulation in trade agreements and ensuring a level playing field on global trade to help create jobs here at home. For more information on today's ruling, please click here.
03.26.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement on BP Oil Spill in Lake Michigan Wednesday, March 26, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement on reports of an oil spill in Lake Michigan. The spill occurred at BP's Whiting, IN refinery. "I am deeply concerned about today's news. This just underscores the critical importance of protecting our Great Lakes and reminds us of the impact a disaster of this nature can have on our State's economy and way-of-life. I will continue to monitor this situation closely, and make sure the company fulfills its responsibility to clean up this spill and provide greater protections to ensure it does not happen again."
03.26.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Receives "Champion of Dairy" Award from Michigan Milk Producers Association Wednesday, March 26, 2014 The Michigan Milk Producers Association (MMPA) recognized U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, with its "Champion of Dairy" award for her extensive work on behalf of Michigan dairy farmers in the 2014 Farm Bill. MMPA honored Senator Stabenow with the award, which has only been given out once before, at the 98th State Annual Delegate Meeting held in Lansing on March 21. "It was great working with the Michigan Milk Producers to write a dairy policy that gives Michigan farmers the tools they need to provide consumers with an abundant supply of milk products at the grocery store," said Sen. Stabenow. "I look forward to our continued partnership to support one of our state's top commodities." "We have worked with Senator Debbie Stabenow for many years on agricultural issues from her days in the Michigan House up to her present role as member of the U.S. Senate. She has proven to be a consistent supporter of Michigan agriculture, and in our case, dairy policy," MMPA President Ken Nobis said. "I am convinced we would not have the farm bill we do today if it were not for the hard work and commitment of one senator - Senator Debbie Stabenow." Dairy is one of Michigan's top agricultural commodities, and U.S. dairy exports have more than doubled in the last ten years. The 2014 Farm Bill, which President Obama signed into law just over thirty days ago at Michigan State University, helps Michigan dairy farmers meet the increasing global demand. The Farm Bill also represents rare bipartisan agreement on a major jobs bill - legislation that will help grow Michigan's agriculture economy, the state's second-largest industry. The 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by $23 billion and represents the most significant reform of American agriculture policy in decades. For more information on the 2014 Farm Bill, click here.
03.24.2014	Senator Stabenow Takes to Senate Floor to Praise Resurgence of American Manufacturing Monday, March 24, 2014 Today U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow took to the Senate floor to discuss liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports, the crisis in Ukraine, and the domestic manufacturing renaissance being fueled by American natural gas. Below are excerpts of her remarks as prepared for delivery: A renaissance in the kind of good-paying, American manufacturing jobs that built our middle class is being powered in a significant way by American natural gas. More than $100 billion in investment - in more than 120 different manufacturing projects - is being fueled by abundant, affordable American natural gas. I am really confused about why some people are rushing to send this American resource overseas without a careful review of the impact that will have on the cost to our manufacturers and our families. I am not opposed to exporting some of our natural gas as part of a balanced, well-thought-out plan. But a rush to approve every export facility request immediately is not wise for our economy and our people when we know increased natural gas is needed right here at home to create jobs and grow our own economy. [...] I am particularly dismayed that some people are using the very serious crisis in Ukraine as an excuse to rush through new projects to export our American natural gas. Just last week, I met with members of the Ukrainian community in Detroit. This is personal for them, their friends, and their families. This crisis should not be used by those in the oil and gas industry to rush through actions that may be good for them in the long run but not good for American manufacturers and middle-class families. [...] As we all know, where that gas goes will be decided by the market. Prices are high in Asia right now. We don't have the existing infrastructure to get it to Ukraine. The gas from any export facilities that are rushed through is likely to go to the Asian market. Should American natural gas be used to create jobs in China or here in America? I would hope we could all agree on the answer to that question. So rushing through more natural gas export facilities unfortunately would not help Ukraine. It could, however, have negative effects on our own economy. [...] The people of Ukraine and our allies need our help, not Big Oil. Shame on us if we squander the opportunities that low-cost, abundant natural gas resources offer our country. We need to be smart with the resources we have. Our manufacturers, our middle class families, and our economy all depend on us getting this right!
03.19.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Discusses New Farm Bill’s Historic Investment in Great Lakes Wednesday, March 19, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today visited Grand Rapids to discuss implementation of the 2014 Farm Bill's historic investment in Great Lakes and private land conservation. The Farm Bill was signed into law just over thirty days ago by President Obama at Michigan State University. Now, the focus shifts to implementing the biggest investment our country makes in private land and water conservation. Sen. Stabenow met with Michigan agriculture and conservation leaders at Kent County MSU Extension to get input and discuss what the next steps are as the U.S. Department of Agriculture begins implementing the new law. The Senate Agriculture Committee will provide oversight and input during the implementation process. "President Obama came to Michigan just over a month ago to sign the Farm Bill, and so now we need to be focused on implementing the law," said Stabenow. "The Farm Bill is the biggest investment our country makes in conservation and includes a new regional partnership program that will protect our Great Lakes for future generations. I will continue working closely with Michigan farmers and conservation leaders, who are on the frontlines protecting our Great Lakes and natural resources, as we work to put the Farm Bill's reforms into effect." The 2014 Farm Bill has one of the strongest conservation titles in generations thanks to the voluntary partnership between agricultural and conservation groups and will help farmers conserve soil health, protect water quality, and restore wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes Bay region and across our state. The Farm Bill includes a new regional partnership program that will protect our Great Lakes and watersheds for future generations to enjoy. It will also open up new areas for people to access private lands to enjoy hunting and fishing. The Farm Bill also represents rare bipartisan agreement on a major jobs bill - legislation that will help grow Michigan's agriculture economy, the state's second-largest industry. The 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by $23 billion and represents the most significant reform of American agriculture policy in decades. For more information on the 2014 Farm Bill, click here.
03.18.2014	Farm Bill: Investing in the Great Lakes and Land Conservation Tuesday, March 18, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today visited Frankenmuth to discuss implementation of the 2014 Farm Bill's historic investment in Great Lakes and private land conservation. The Farm Bill was signed into law just over thirty days ago by President Obama at Michigan State University. Now, the focus shifts to implementing the biggest investment our country makes in private land and water conservation. Sen. Stabenow met with Michigan agriculture and conservation leaders at the Bavarian Inn Lodge to get input and discuss what the next steps are as the U.S. Department of Agriculture begins implementing the new law. The Senate Agriculture Committee will provide oversight and input during the implementation process. "President Obama came to Michigan just over a month ago to sign the Farm Bill, and so now we need to be focused on implementing the law," said Stabenow. "The Farm Bill is the biggest investment our country makes in conservation and includes a new regional partnership program that will protect our Great Lakes for future generations. I will continue working closely with Michigan farmers and conservation leaders, who are on the frontlines protecting our Great Lakes and natural resources, as we work to put the Farm Bill's reforms into effect." The 2014 Farm Bill has one of the strongest conservation titles in generations thanks to the voluntary partnership between agricultural and conservation groups and will help farmers conserve soil health, protect water quality, and restore wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes Bay region and across our state. The Farm Bill includes a new regional partnership program that will protect our Great Lakes and watersheds for future generations to enjoy. It will also open up new areas for people to access private lands to enjoy hunting and fishing. The Farm Bill also represents rare bipartisan agreement on a major jobs bill - legislation that will help grow Michigan's agriculture economy, the state's second-largest industry. The 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by $23 billion and represents the most significant reform of American agriculture policy in decades. For more information on the 2014 Farm Bill, click here.
03.17.2014	Michigan State Breaks Ground on FRIB Research Facility Monday, March 17, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today delivered remarks at Michigan State University's groundbreaking ceremony for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB). The new state-of-the-art facility, awarded by the Department of Energy in 2008, will cement MSU's role as a world-class leader in cutting-edge research and continue to make Michigan a global hub for scientific breakthroughs in medicine, homeland security, energy, and other critical industry applications. FRIB is expected to create thousands of new Michigan jobs and generate an estimated $1 billion in economic activity. "Today's FRIB groundbreaking is an historic milestone for MSU and our entire state," said Sen. Stabenow. "FRIB will create thousands of new jobs and reinforce MSU's and Michigan's role as a global leader in cutting-edge research that will lead to important discoveries in medicine and other scientific fields. I am very excited that this world-class research facility is now one step closer to completion." Senator Stabenow has been a strong advocate for FRIB, leading the effort to secure $128 million in federal funding to support construction. The President's 2015 budget also includes $90 million to continue construction of FRIB next year. Michigan State's FRIB project will pursue scientific breakthroughs by creating and studying elements that do not normally occur naturally on Earth. The facility will use the latest scientific equipment to create isotopes - variants of natural chemical elements with minutely different atomic structures than their more common chemical siblings. Studying these extraordinarily rare materials, which often exist for only a fraction of a second, can help advance scientific research in many fields, including using isotopes to improve medical imaging and the treatment of cancer. For more information on FRIB, click here.
03.13.2014	President Obama Signs Bill to Preserve Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore Thursday, March 13, 2014 U.S. Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow today welcomed President Obama's signature on a bill they introduced to protect more than 30,000 acres of wilderness at Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore. This new law will help protect and conserve Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore for future generations. "This legislation is a victory for the people of Michigan and all those, now and for years to come, who will be able to experience this precious natural wonder," Levin said. "Many Michiganians have worked long and hard to make this day possible. The reward for their hard work is more than 30,000 miles of matchless beauty, preserved for generations to come." "I'm glad the President recognized the importance of Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore today. This designation will protect their breathtaking beauty for generations to come," Stabenow said. "The Dunes bring over one million visitors a year to Michigan from across the country. By designating this wilderness land, we are helping promote one of our state's top Pure Michigan tourist attractions and protecting an integral part of our Great Lakes."
03.12.2014	Range Light Park Receives Support to Increase Accessibility, Expand Facilities Wednesday, March 12, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Range Light Park in Presque Isle to increase accessibility for activities and expand and improve park facilities. The support comes through the National Park Service. "Families across Northern Michigan visit parks like Range Light Park to enjoy the outdoors and relax," said Sen. Stabenow. "This support will make it easier for individuals with disabilities to enjoy the boardwalk and pavilion, improve access to Lake Huron for canoes and kayaks, and protect swimmers from boats." "Our parks play an important role in our communities, providing space for recreation, sports, and relaxation," Levin said. "This funding will help to make Range Light Park an even better and safer space for the Presque Isle community." The $60,000 grant comes through the National Park Service's Land and Water Conservation Fund. The National Park Service's Land and Water Conservation Fund seeks to safeguard natural areas, water resources and our cultural heritage, and to provide recreation opportunities to all Americans.
03.12.2014	Michigan District Court Judges Confirmed by Senate Wednesday, March 12, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today welcomed Senate votes confirming four judges to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan in Detroit. The Senate confirmed the nominations of Matthew Frederick Leitman, Judith Ellen Levy, Laurie J. Michelson and Linda Vivienne Parker by 98-0, 97-0, 98-0, and 60-37, respectively. "Today's vote is great news for Michigan," said Stabenow. "These four highly respected jurists have dedicated their careers to our community and to public service and will serve our state with great distinction." "Senator Stabenow and I recommended each of these judges to the president after their selection by a broad-based screening committee of Michigan legal experts," Levin said. "Each of them has demonstrated a mastery of the law and the impartiality required of a judge, and I know they will serve justice and the people of Michigan well." Leitman is a principal at the law firm Miller Canfield PLC in Troy, where he specializes in complex commercial and criminal law. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan and Harvard Law School. Levy has been an assistant United States attorney in the Eastern District of Michigan since 2000 and serves as the chief of the Civil Rights Unit there. She is a graduate of U-M and U-M Law School. Michelson has served as a United States magistrate judge in the Eastern District of Michigan since 2011. She is a graduate of U-M and the Northwestern University School of Law. Parker is a judge on the Third Judicial Circuit Court of Michigan and a former director of the Michigan Department of Civil Rights. She is a graduate of U-M and the George Washington University Law School.
03.12.2014	Two West Michigan Parks Receive Support to Increase Accessibility, Expand Facilities Wednesday, March 12, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Meinert Park in Muskegon and Cutler Park in Byron Center to increase accessibility for people living with disabilities and expand and improve park facilities. The support comes through the National Park Service. "Families across West Michigan visit parks just like Meinert and Cutler to enjoy the outdoors and relax," said Sen. Stabenow. "This support will make it easier for children with disabilities to play at Meinert park and improve facilities at Cutler park so visitors can have more fun swimming or picnicking." "Our parks play an important role in our communities, providing space for recreation, sports, and relaxation," Levin said. "This funding will help to ensure that all members of our community have access to the park and will allow us to make the parks even better spaces for everyone to enjoy." The $31,284 for Meinert Park and $98,785 for Cutler Park comes through the National Park Service's Land and Water Conservation Fund. The National Park Service's Land and Water Conservation Fund seeks to safeguard natural areas, water resources and our cultural heritage, and to provide recreation opportunities to all Americans.
03.10.2014	Senator Stabenow Announces New Communications Director Monday, March 10, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today named Josh Dorner as her Communications Director. Dorner replaces Cullen Schwarz, who is now Press Secretary at USDA. Before joining Sen. Stabenow's office, Josh was Director of Communications and Advocacy for the Center for American Progress Action Fund and the Director of Communications for the Center for American Progress. Before joining CAP and CAP Action, he spent four years heading up communications strategy and media for all of the Sierra Club's energy and climate change work, as well as its other federal legislative campaigns and political work. Dorner also served as deputy communications director at the Clean Energy Works campaign. Josh began his career working at a public relations firm that primarily served nonprofits. He graduated from Grinnell College with honors degrees in political science and French and also holds a Master of Science in European politics and governance from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
03.07.2014	Report Shows Michigan Leads the Country in Small Business Initiative Lending Friday, March 07, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today applauded a new report by the U.S. Treasury Department that shows Michigan leading the nation in small business lending through the State Small Business Credit Initiative. Michigan has received and distributed more than $69.5 million through this initiative, which leverages private lending to help finance small businesses and manufacturers that are creditworthy but are not getting the loans they need to expand and create jobs. Sen. Stabenow helped lead the effort in the Senate with Sen. Carl Levin to create this initiative in the Small Business Jobs Act, which was signed into law in 2010. "Michigan is number one in the country in state small business lending, which is great news for our economy," said Stabenow. "Small businesses create the majority of new jobs, and our entrepreneurs are ready to hire if they can get the capital they need to grow and be successful. This report will bolster our efforts in Congress to extend this initiative, which is still vitally needed to ensure even more small businesses can obtain a loan to expand and create jobs." According to the Department of Treasury, every dollar of federal support leverages $10 in private sector lending or investments in small businesses. For the complete report click here.
03.06.2014	Cooperative Extension System Celebrates 100th Anniversary Thursday, March 06, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced a resolution commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Smith-Lever Act, which established the Cooperative Extension System and directed our country's land grant universities, including Michigan State University, to oversee its work. "Cooperative Extension connects the most current research and resources from our universities to help individuals, families, communities and businesses across our nation," said Stabenow. "There is no greater example of this than in Michigan. For more than 100 years, Michigan State University Extension has helped Michigan residents by giving them information to assist them in their jobs, help their communities prosper and keep their families safe and healthy." "President Obama recognized MSU's leadership last month in signing the Farm Bill on the University's campus," continued Stabenow. Cooperative extensions provide a nationwide educational network, bringing together federal, state and local governments with land-grant universities to provide research-based information to people in communities across the United States. Cooperative extension offices are now present in every U.S. state and provide important and practical information to agricultural producers, small business owners, young people, consumers, and others in rural areas and communities of all sizes. Chairwoman Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill establishes the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research - a non-profit foundation which will raise private funds for agricultural research. The foundation will fund opportunities for enhanced collaboration between agricultural researchers from the federal government, land-grant and other universities and non-profit organizations. The text of the resolution introduced by Chairwoman Stabenow and Ranking Member Thad Cochran (R-MS) can be found here. For more information on the 2014 Farm Bill, please visit www.stabenow.senate.gov.
03.06.2014	Belle Isle and Detroit Receive Support for Tree Restoraion Thursday, March 06, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced a $300,000 U.S. Forest Service grant to support tree restoration on Belle Isle and across the City of Detroit. The funding will be used to remove dangerous trees along Detroit's city streets and on Belle Isle that were lost to infestations from insects like the emerald ash borer. The grant will also support a tree management, maintenance, and restoration plan, which will include replanting trees on Belle Isle and in neighborhoods throughout the city. "This is welcome news for Detroit families and visitors to Belle Isle, one of our state's great treasures," said Sen. Stabenow. "This partnership with the Forest Service will remove hazardous trees along city streets to help keep residents safe and restore the natural beauty on Belle Isle for future generations to enjoy." "Detroiters and visitors to Belle Isle are going to feel the difference this investment will make. Tree restoration provides multiple economic, environmental and social benefits to our community---from providing green jobs to protecting the air and soil. This initiative will help make neighborhoods safer and our parks more beautiful. I want to thank Senator Stabenow for being such a strong advocate for Detroit families," said Rebecca Salminen Witt, President of The Greening of Detroit. The Michigan Department of Natural Resources will work with local contractors and community partners like the Greening of Detroit to coordinate, plan, and implement tree restoration efforts. The Greening of Detroit has planted nearly 82,000 trees since its inception in 1989, and is launching an advanced tree removal training program this spring through its Workforce Development Department. As Chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Senator Stabenow has oversight of the U.S. Forest Service.
03.05.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Funding for Great Lakes Dredging Wednesday, March 05, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin, both D-Mich., today announced that the Army Corps will distribute $25 million for Great Lakes navigation projects, including funding to help address the backlog of dredging projects in the Great Lakes. Last month, Great Lakes Task Force Co-chairs Levin and Sen. Mark Kirk, R-Ill., led a bipartisan letter from Great Lakes senators, including Stabenow, to leaders of the Army Corps of Engineers. The letter urged the Army Corps to allocate additional funding for Great Lakes harbor maintenance from the $200 million in national funding provided in the FY14 omnibus bill, which Congress approved in January. "Making sure that our harbors and waterways are properly dredged and maintained is absolutely critical to supporting Michigan's shipping, boating and tourism industries," said Sen. Stabenow. "This is much-needed funding that will go a long way to supporting our economy and thousands of jobs across our state." "The failure to provide adequate funds for harbor dredging has created a crisis in which many Great Lakes harbors are becoming so choked with silt that they are increasingly unusable," said Levin. "This funding will provide assistance to harbors across the Great Lakes region, including several of the most severely impacted harbors in Michigan." Following is the list of Michigan projects that will receive funding: Black River, Port Huron, MI - DredgingCheboygan Harbor, MI - DredgingGrand Haven Harbor, MI - Additional dredging - inner harbor *Leland Harbor, MI - DredgingMenominee Harbor, MI and WI - DredgingMonroe Harbor, MI - Additional dredging *Saginaw River, MI - Additional dredging *St. Joseph Harbor, MI - DredgingDetroit River, MI - CDF fill management activitiesSt. Mary's River, MI - Soo asset renewalSt. Mary's River, MI - Hydropower Access bridge and duct bank to hydropower plant * "Dredging" projects are new projects not previously funded in the FY14 omnibus appropriations bill. "Additional dredging" projects were previously included in the bill and will receive additional funds on top of what was previously allocated.
03.04.2014	Congress Approves Bill to Preserve Sleeping Bear Wilderness Land Tuesday, March 04, 2014 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today welcomed final House passage of a bill they introduced to protect more than 30,000 acres of wilderness at Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore. House passage of S.23, the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore Conservation and Recreation Act, which Levin and Stabenow introduced in 2013, sends the bill to President Obama for his signature. The Senate passed the bill in June 2013. "I'm glad the House has joined us in recognizing the importance of Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore. This designation will protect their breathtaking beauty for generations to come," Stabenow said. "The Dunes bring 1.2 million visitors a year to Michigan from across the country. By designating this wilderness land, we are helping promote one of our state's top Pure Michigan tourist attractions and protecting an integral part of our Great Lakes." "Final passage of this legislation is good news for all of us who cherish the matchless beauty and the ecological importance of Sleeping Bear Dunes," Levin said. "The local community has worked long and hard to preserve this valuable wilderness while ensuring that visitors can access and appreciate it, and I am pleased that the House has followed the Senate to preserve this important part of Michigan's heritage."
03.04.2014	FRIB Receives Full Funding in President Obama's Budget Tuesday, March 04, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today applauded President Obama for including full funding for Michigan State University's Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) in his 2015 Budget. The President's budget includes $90 million to continue construction of FRIB next year. The budget request comes after Senators Stabenow and Levin led the effort to include full funding for FRIB in the 2014 appropriations bill and to authorize construction to begin this month. "With the groundbreaking of FRIB scheduled this month, this is great news for our State and for MSU," said Stabenow. "This facility will cement MSU's role as a global leader in scientific research and create thousands of good-paying jobs. FRIB will put Michigan at the forefront of cutting-edge research that can lead to advances in everything from medicine to national security to energy, and ensure our nation's leadership in this critical field of science." "With this budget, FRIB is moving closer and closer to reality - a reality that includes pushing the frontiers of human knowledge and new economic opportunity for our state," Levin said. "This is an investment in science and opportunity that will pay off for decades to come."
02.26.2014	Housing Services in Detroit and Oakland County Receive Support Wednesday, February 26, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Southwest Solutions in Detroit and Lighthouse of Oakland County. Southwest Solutions provides affordable housing and support services to the mentally ill and homeless in Detroit. Lighthouse of Oakland County provides emergency food and housing to low-income families. Both organizations received grants through NeighborWorks America, a non-profit organization that supports local efforts to revitalize and sustain communities by promoting and preserving affordable housing. "Southwest Solutions and Lighthouse of Oakland County are dedicated to helping so many Detroit and Oakland County families who are most in need find a place to call home" Stabenow said. "These NeighborWorks America grants will also support the great work both organizations are doing to help revitalize local neighborhoods throughout Southeast Michigan." "An affordable home is part of the American dream, and these grants will make that dream a reality for thousands of families by making it easier to create and maintain affordable housing and for homeowners to stay in their homes through the hard work of local nonprofit groups," Levin said. Southwest Solutions will receive a grant of $332,000, and Lighthouse of Oakland County will receive a grant of $36,500. NeighborWorks America was established by Congress in 1978 as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation and supports over 240 local and regional nonprofit partner organizations. For more information about NeighborWorks America please visit their website at http://www.nw.org/network/aboutUs/aboutUs.asp.
02.26.2014	Northwest Michigan Community Action Agency, Inc. Receives Support Wednesday, February 26, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Northwest Michigan Community Action Agency, Inc. The organization, which serves ten counties in northern Michigan, is dedicated to strengthening communities through helping individual families achieve greater economic security. Northwest Michigan Community Action Agency, Inc. received a grant through NeighborWorks America, a non-profit organization that supports local efforts to revitalize and sustain communities by promoting and preserving affordable housing. "Northwest Michigan Community Action Agency, Inc. is already doing the critical work that is sustaining and revitalizing local neighborhoods throughout the region" Stabenow said. "This NeighborWorks America grant will mean even more Northern Michigan families will be able to keep the dream of home ownership a reality. "An affordable home is part of the American dream, and this grant will make that dream a reality for thousands of families by making it easier to create and maintain affordable housing and for homeowners to stay in their homes through the hard work of local nonprofit groups," Levin said. Northwest Michigan Community Action Agency, Inc. will receive $115,000. NeighborWorks America was established by Congress in 1978 as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation and supports over 240 local and regional nonprofit partner organizations. For more information about NeighborWorks America please visit their website at http://www.nw.org/network/aboutUs/aboutUs.asp.
02.26.2014	Housing Services in Kalamazoo County and Battle Creek Receive Support Wednesday, February 26, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Kalamazoo Neighborhood Housing Services, Inc. and Neighborhoods, Inc. of Battle Creek. Both organizations provide financial and educational services to homeowners and home buyers to establish revitalized, stable neighborhoods. The organizations received grants through NeighborWorks America, a non-profit organization that supports local efforts to revitalize and sustain communities by promoting and preserving affordable housing. "These organizations are already helping so many families in need find safe and affordable housing, which is revitalizing local neighborhoods throughout the region" Stabenow said. "Thanks to these NeighborWorks America grants, even more Kalamazoo County and Battle Creek families will be able to keep the dream of home ownership a reality." "An affordable home is part of the American dream, and these grants will make that dream a reality for thousands of families by making it easier to create and maintain affordable housing and for homeowners to stay in their homes through the hard work of local nonprofit groups," Levin said. Kalamazoo Neighborhood Housing Services, Inc. will receive a grant of $104,500, and Neighborhoods, Inc. of Battle Creek will receive a grant of $96,000. NeighborWorks America was established by Congress in 1978 as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation and supports over 240 local and regional nonprofit partner organizations. For more information about NeighborWorks America please visit their website at http://www.nw.org/network/aboutUs/aboutUs.asp.
02.26.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Announce Support for Habitat for Humanity of Michigan Wednesday, February 26, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for Habitat for Humanity of Michigan. The organization received a grant through NeighborWorks America, a non-profit organization that supports local efforts to revitalize and sustain communities by promoting and preserving affordable housing. "Habitat for Humanity is already helping so many families in need find safe and affordable housing, which is revitalizing local neighborhoods," Stabenow said. "This NeighborWorks America grant will allow Habitat for Humanity of Michigan and its volunteers to help even more families make the dream of home ownership a reality." "An affordable home is part of the American dream, and this grant will make that dream a reality for thousands of families by making it easier to create and maintain affordable housing and for homeowners to stay in their homes through the hard work of local nonprofit groups," Levin said. Habitat for Humanity of Michigan will receive a grant of $119,000. NeighborWorks America was established by Congress in 1978 as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation and supports over 240 local and regional nonprofit partner organizations. For more information about NeighborWorks America please visit their website: http://www.nw.org/network/aboutUs/aboutUs.asp.
02.25.2014	Southeast Michigan Manufacturing Innovation Hub to be Announced Tuesday, February 25, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, today will attend President Obama's announcement of a new high-tech manufacturing research innovation hub to open in metro Detroit. The President will formally announce today at the White House that the new American Lightweight Materials Manufacturing Innovation Institute will be located in Canton. The public-private partnership is expected to create thousands of new jobs in the region in the next five years. Senator Stabenow worked with her Democratic colleagues from Michigan to urge the administration to locate the new hub in Southeast Michigan. "Today's announcement is great news for Michigan's manufacturing economy," said Stabenow. "This public-private partnership will build on the great work already being done by our manufacturers, workers and universities to help create thousands of Michigan jobs. Major investments like this will help ensure that we continue creating high-tech, cutting-edge jobs and training our workers with the right skills to fill them." The American Lightweight Materials Manufacturing Innovation Institute will focus on bringing next-generation lightweight metals to market for use in cars, trucks, airplanes and other commercial, personal and military vehicles. Lightweight metals can reduce fuel consumption to help consumers and businesses save money at the pump. In addition to fostering research and development of these materials, the institute will establish training programs to train the next generation of engineers and manufacturing workers.
02.24.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement Congressman John Dingell's Retirement Monday, February 24, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today issued the following statement on the announced retirement of U.S. Representative John Dingell: "Nobody has done more for Michigan than John Dingell. For nearly 60 years, the Dean of the House has dedicated his life to public service and has done so with honor and distinction. He has been a critical voice on important issues like civil rights, protecting the environment, supporting our auto industry, and strengthening health care in America. John has been a mentor and a personal friend, and it has been an honor to work with him to represent Michigan families."
02.21.2014	Hampton Township Receives Support to Buy New Police Vehicle Friday, February 21, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced support for Hampton Township to purchase a new police cruiser. This award, made available through the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Community Facilities Grant Program, will help Hampton Township update their aging fleet of cruisers. Senator Stabenow said: "Our first responders provide critical services to rural communities like Hampton Township throughout Michigan. This support will help the Hampton Township Police Department continue to keep the community safe." The Hampton Township will receive $8,000 to help support the purchase. Stabenow is Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which has jurisdiction over rural development projects.
02.20.2014	Dryden Township Fire Department Receives Support to Hire Firefighters Thursday, February 20, 2014 Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced that Dryden Township Fire Department will receive support to hire additional firefighters. "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous services to communities like Dryden Township," said Stabenow. "This grant helps make sure they have the resources they need to hire more firefighters to protect the public." "Firefighters stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "This grant will help provide Dryden Township Fire Department with the support they need to protect lives and property in their community." The fire department will receive $43,562 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, a competitive grant process to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the frontline firefighters they need to maintain 24-hour staffing.
02.14.2014	Detroit Urban Agriculture and Local Food Programs Receive Support Friday, February 14, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced funding to support urban agriculture and increase the availability of locally grown foods in Detroit. While most don't think of Detroit as an agricultural area, Detroit is home to national leaders in the urban agriculture movement, with many community gardens, urban greenhouses, school gardens, and the country's oldest farmers' market. Sen. Stabenow joined the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service and urban farmers at Detroit Eastern Market to announce $150,000 in financial assistance for Detroit and Wayne County farmers to construct seasonal high tunnels (or hoop houses), which are like greenhouses that help producers grow fruits and vegetables in urban areas, extend the growing season, and protect the environment. The assistance comes through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), a voluntary program that helps farmers plan and implement conservation practices that protect the soil, air, and water. Hoop houses are made of ribs of plastic or metal pipe covered with a layer of plastic sheeting and are easy to build and maintain. Not only do they protect crops from severe weather, they also protect the soil by reducing the need for pesticides and reducing the loss of fertilizers through runoff. Chairwoman Stabenow said: "Thanks to increasing demand for more locally grown food, urban agriculture is taking off across Metro Detroit. Today's announcement will help Detroit-area farmers sell more fruits and vegetables directly to families, schools, and restaurants. The 2014 Farm Bill also makes historic investments to support local food initiatives, farmers' markets, and community gardens right here." Garry Lee, State Conservationist with NRCS said: "Seasonal high tunnels help vegetable and fruit growers increase the availability of locally grown, healthy food while protecting the environment. Malik Yakini, Executive Director of the Detroit Black Community Food Security Network and D-Town Farm said: "The funding that the Detroit Black Community Food Security Network received from the NRCS to construct a hoophouse at D-Town Farm has allowed us to get produce to the market earlier in the year and to continue growing some crops through December. Season extension is an essential element of the efforts of local growers to build a robust, localized food system." Ashley Atkinson, Co-Director of Keep Growing Detroit said: "We are very excited about this new resource for Detroit's urban gardening and farming community. Hoop houses play an instrumental in helping farmers extend Michigan's relatively short growing season. These grants will translate directly into more fresh produce available to residents and new market opportunities for emerging farm businesses." Dan Carmody, President of the Eastern Market Corporation said: "Hoop houses allow Detroit area growers to extend their growing season and provide metro residents with more local, delicious, and nutritious produce." Friday's announcement is a direct result of Sen. Stabenow's work to help author the Conservation Title in the previous Farm Bill, which authorizes EQIP. Michigan is one of the top five states in number of seasonal high tunnels built between 2009 and 2012. Sen. Stabenow's 2014 Farm Bill, signed into law last week by President Obama at Michigan State University, makes historic investments in local food initiatives including support for organics, farmers markets, urban gardens, local food hubs, fresh fruit and vegetable snack programs in schools, and new support for fruit and vegetable growers. While strengthening key initiatives to grow Michigan's agriculture economy, the 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by $23 billion and represents the most significant reform of American agriculture policy in decades. For more information on the 2014 Farm Bill, click here.
02.13.2014	Three Southeast Michigan Fire Departments Recieve Support to Hire Firefighters Thursday, February 13, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for three Southeast Michigan fire departments to hire firefighters. The support comes through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Our firefighters provide critical, courageous service to communities across Southeast Michigan," said Stabenow. "This grant will help the Ann Arbor Charter Township, Huron Township, and White Lake Township Fire Departments hire more first responders to protect the public." "It is vital that we maintain the fire protection and emergency medical services our citizens need," Levin said. "These grants to the fire departments in Ann Arbor, Huron Township and White Lake Township will help them recruit and hire more first responders to protect their communities when an emergency strikes." The Ann Arbor Charter Township Fire Department will receive $427,419, the Huron Township Fire Department will receive $256,056, and the White Lake Township Fire Department will receive $418,787. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, a competitive grant process to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the frontline firefighters they need to protect their communities.
02.11.2014	Senators Praise Chairwoman Stabenow’s Leadership, Tenacity and Commitment to Bipartisanship in the 2014 Farm Bill Tuesday, February 11, 2014 Senators from both sides of the aisle praised U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, for her leadership, tenacity and commitment to working in a bipartisan way to finish the 2014 Farm Bill. The bipartisan bill was signed into law by President Obama February 7 at Michigan State University, the country's first land grant institution and a national leader in agriculture research. The Farm Bill marked a rare example of Congress passing a major bipartisan jobs bill as well as a major bipartisan deficit reduction bill. Here's what some of Senator Stabenow's colleagues have said this year about her work on the Farm Bill: Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV), Senate Majority Leader, said: "I have been in the Senate a while, in the House a while, as has been the chairman of the Agriculture Committee, a junior Senator from Michigan, so I have seen people handle legislation. Work done by Senator Stabenow has been remarkably good. It's exemplary for her to work to the point where we're going to pass this important legislation." Sen. Thad Cochran (R-MS), Ranking Member of the Agriculture Committee, said: "It's been a pleasure to be a part of this team, we have worked in a nonpartisan, bi-partisan, collegial manner and across the Capitol dealing with the two conferees has been a pleasure and a challenge, but I think it has produced a product we can all be proud of and we're glad to be here today to celebrate our victory. Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), said: "I've been here for seven of these 5 year farm bills and I have never seen such a rollercoaster in my life. And thank goodness Debbie Stabenow was at the controls of that rollercoaster, working so closely with my friend from Mississippi Thad Cochran. They kept us on track... I think, the American taxpayers, rural America, the farmers of America, the hungry people of America owe the leadership...a great deal of thanks." Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND), said: I'd like to thank Senator Stabenow for her leadership on the Ag committee and also Senator Cochran. They did a tremendous job and I was a member of that conference committee and their leadership showed... every one of these was a big time challenge. To go through all of those issues and come up with compromises that then at the end, got out of the conference report out of the committee with maybe one dissenting vote on the Senate side and maybe two or so dissenting votes on the House side shows their ability to come up with compromises to really challenging issues." Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), said: "I think almost everyone can agree that we wouldn't be here but for the tenacity and leadership of Chairwoman Stabenow. People kept asking me in North Dakota, ‘How do you know you're going to get a farm bill?' I said, ‘Have you met Debbie?' Just a little hint because she never takes no for an answer. As my colleague Sen. Hoeven is fond of saying ‘she's a tough negotiator.' I said that's right, that's right." Sen. John Boozman (R-AR), said: "I just want to thank our [Agriculture Committee] leadership for working so very hard to get this done... at the end of the day I think we got a very good product, something we can all be proud of." Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), said: "People are saying Congress can't get something done. Well in the last few months we finally got a budget done, we got a farm bill done and I'm just hoping with little action by the House we can move on immigration." Sen. Jon Tester (D-MT), said: "Chairman Stabenow and ranking member Cochran have written a commonsense bill. This an era when too many folks look for reasons to vote "no" instead of "yes," it takes strong and determined leaders to bring a responsible bipartisan bill like this to the floor. And that's why, because I'm in production agriculture especially, the work that chairman Stabenow and member Cochran did for the American farmers and ranchers needs to be commended." Sen. Michael Bennet (D-CO), said: "I would like to talk today briefly about the Farm Bill, a measure that, thanks to months and months, actually years of tireless work by Chairwoman Stabenow, ranking member Cochran, and the other conferees on the bill, Democrats and Republicans in both houses of congress, thanks to all of that work we're going to be able to pass this bill." Senators from both sides of the aisle have praised Sen. Stabenow's work throughout the Farm Bill process. Here's what they have said in the past: Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV): "Democrats and Republicans disagree on many things. So it's really remarkable and encouraging to see how well Senators Stabenow and Senator Cochran - the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Agriculture Committee - worked together to bring the agriculture jobs bill to the floor. Their work has been exemplary - some would say old-fashioned - the way things used to be." Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA): "Thank you Madam Chair, and first of all let me commend you and the ranking member on working hard once again to produce what we all know from firsthand experience is a very difficult bill to produce. The process is always difficult to do, trying to match up all regions and all crops, so I want to commend you....The biggest issue facing our country now is the growing debt and deficit, and I commend this committee for doing the needed work to find the needed savings...That is remarkable madam Chair that you have been able to craft a bill with that kind of number in there under the conditions we are operating in." Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN): "It's been 327 days since the Senate passed the last Farm Bill in June of 2012. Since that time farmers, ranchers, rural communities in America have been through a lot. In 2012 we had the worst drought since 1956, costing the country billions of dollars.... I'm so pleased with the work this committee has done, the bipartisan work this committee has done, and I'm also pleased we found a way to do this while still reducing the debt. We've eliminated direct payments and further focused farm programs on our family farmers and I urge this committee to stick with its $23 billion target to ensure we have the strongest bill possible." Sen. John Boozman (R-AK): "We appreciate you having the markup today and for all your hard work in bringing forward this bipartisan and reform oriented legislation. Like all of the other members of this committee I recognize that our producers need a strong five year farm bill that ensures our nation will have the world's safest, most affordable and most reliable food supply and fiber. We know that the only way to accomplish this is for this committee to report a bipartisan bill that provides a safety net for all crops and regions, invests in the future of rural America, preserves the safety net for the most vulnerable members of our communities, and finally a bill that includes significant reforms and contributes to reducing our federal deficit." Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA): "I thank you Madam Chair for your great leadership of this committee. I always marvel at the fact that our Chair has the unique distinction of having served on the Agriculture Committee in the state legislature, the US House and the US Senate. I don't know that anyone else has ever had that kind of a career. And I thank you for all of your diligence in getting this bill through when there's some really tremendous and terrible hardships in the budget.... hopefully we can get this over the finish line now." Sen. Mike Johanns (R-NE): "I certainly know that creating a Farm bill is never easy and there's a lot of different philosophies about farm policies and of course we come from lots of different parts of the country with different crops.... The improvements [in this bill] reduce costs as well as make the programs more farmer friendly. This bill also helps farmers produce more food on less land, hope to do more in that area. And includes new avenues to ensure that important work continues despite a tight federal budget." Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT): "I think I can speak for all members of the committee in expressing my appreciation for putting this together. It's been a long road. It's also very important that we have a five year bill. Many of us believe these short term extensions just don't make sense and I thank you for a five year bill. Five is a very important number - one in 5 Montana jobs is related to agriculture, it's our number one industry... I must say too, that the bill saves taxpayers a lot of money. With debt reduction that too is a big feather in your cap so there are a lot of reasons why this is good legislation and again I thank you very much for it." Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND): "Thank you to both you and the ranking member for getting us into this committee with this markup. I know farmers and ranchers across this great country appreciate it very much as well. I also appreciate the spirit in which you approached this Farm Bill, building on the work from the bill last session and really working to add some things that I hope can ensure that we go to the floor untied with this bill." Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND): "I wanted to tell you how grateful I am for your leadership and the leadership of the ranking member to bring this bill... the Farm Bill has never been a partisan bill... And so hopefully we'll be able to do this, we'll be able to achieve the compromise that we need to move this forward. But we're extremely hopeful that the House will also do this, and just for once if we can set a goal of getting this done before the expiration of the extension, that would be an amazing feat and one I think we would talk about for a lot years as an example of what we can do." Sen. Mo Cowan (D-MA): "I speak not just for the farmers that till the soil and cultivate the land but for those who cultivate the sea. I also want to applaud you and others for the hard fought agreement on conservation compliance as represented in the mark up. I think this a good compromise and everyone will benefit... I want to thank you Madam Chair for doing your best to protect the SNAP benefits in this bill and others. I know it's not been easy, there's more work to be done...I look forward to the conversation today and the amendment process and taking a bipartisan bill to the floor." Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV), Senate Majority Leader: "[T]he Republican Leader and I... would be remiss if we didn't say something to the entire Senate about how we feel about this bill and the leadership that was shown by these two fine Senators... We know how hard they worked to get where we are... I cannot say enough, although I will try, to applaud and compliment Senator Stabenow and Senator Roberts..." Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Senate Minority Leader: "Senator Stabenow and Senator Roberts have worked together very skillfully... I think we're moving back in the direction of operating the Senate in a way that we sort of traditionally understood we were going to operate the Senate... This is a very fine day in the recent history of the Senate. I congratulate the Chairwoman of the committee and the ranking member. They did a fabulous [job]." Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT): "Chairwoman Stabenow and Ranking Member Roberts clearly worked together... I do hope that something happens here, in addition to passing a farm bill... It's the psychology of us being legislators with amendments and working together.... I'm very hopeful that this will help set a tone about working together. It is not an overstatement to say they did work very hard, they did go the extra mile, that is not just fluff, that's not smoke, that's real. I haven't seen this in some time." Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND): "I want to say [Chairwoman Stabenow] has provided brilliant leadership on this legislation. I'm in my 26th year here. I have never seen a chairman so personally and directly engaged to make legislation happen in an extraordinarily difficult and challenging environment. When the history of this legislation is written, Senator Stabenow, the Chairman of our committee, will be in the front rank of those who made this happen. Sen. Mike Johanns (R-NE): Let me just start out at congratulating the Chair and the Ranking Member. I have to say I marvel at what you've accomplished here... We haven't seen this kind of reform in a long, long time... I mean it's amazing the steps forward that this farm bill has taken. I compliment both of them - I think it is really a solid piece of work..." Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT): "Let me praise both Sen. Stabenow and Sen. Roberts and the Members of the Committee... I've told both of them, I've never seen a farm bill handled this well or this quickly... There is one advantage to it though: no longer will I be getting those Saturday and Sunday and late evening calls from the Chairwoman saying, we have one more issue here. But then she did that with everybody else... Sen. Roberts worked with Sen. Stabenow each step of the way to get a bill. It is the way the Senate used to work and the way the Senate should work and the way the Senate will work. I think the United States Senate owes these two senators a huge debt of gratitude, and I think the country does too." Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA): "Thank you madam Chairman for your cooperation on that issue, it is the most cooperation I have seen in the 10 or 15 years that I have been working on this issue on trying to bring some reform... I also appreciate madam Chairman the work, and the work Ranking Member Roberts, have put into this farm bill..." Senator Michael Bennett (D-CO): "...When people tell me, ‘What is wrong with you people? Why can't you work together?' I have the opportunity to point to the bipartisan work of this committee as an example of how we should be approaching our work in the U.S. Senate." Senator John Hoeven (R-ND): "Thank you madam Chairman, I truly appreciate your work and your willingness to work with us and also to Ranking Member Roberts. Thank you Senator for your work and perseverance... I know everyone already said it but I do have to commend the both of you for diligently working though this process..." Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE): "I have never known in a committee structure a Chairperson who reaches out as you have in this effort. We put together a bipartisan budget savings bill, and if others across our government followed this example and made similar cuts, we would be able to achieve the goal that we all have of reducing the deficit and getting it under control. As I've said in the past, this bill will permit people in agriculture to establish their own risk management tools, rather than having to rely on the good will of the government to bail them out." Senator Bob Casey (D-PA): "I want to thank you for your hard work and working with me and our office so closely and your Ranking Member Senator Roberts; we're grateful. It is a significant example of bipartisanship at a time when you don't see enough of it."
02.10.2014	Michigan Agriculture, Conservation, Healthy Food Groups Praise Chairwoman Stabenow’s Bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill Monday, February 10, 2014 Michigan agricultural, conservation, healthy food and business groups today widely praised the 2014 Farm Bill, written by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. The Farm Bill passed the Senate with a strong bipartisan vote of 68-32. President Obama signed the bill February 7 at Michigan State University, the country's first land grant college and a national leader in agriculture research. Jim Byrum, President of the Michigan Agri-Business Association, said: "Senator Stabenow has been tireless in her support of Michigan's priorities in the farm bill. She has been instrumental in protecting crop insurance and other vital programs for Michigan's agricultural producers. We thank Senator Stabenow for standing up to special interests, advocating for Michigan's agriculture sector and ensuring our industry has the tools and certainty it needs to continue growing and creating jobs." Phil Korson, Executive Director of the Michigan Cherry Marketing Institute, said: "Michigan's cherry farmers continue to grow and compete with farmers nationally and globally. We appreciate the work that Senator Stabenow has done in bringing all sides together and drafting this farm bill. Senator Stabenow's efforts are essential to strengthening the diversity of Michigan's agricultural industry." Gildo Tori, Director of Public Policy for Ducks Unlimited Great Lakes/Atlantic Region, said: "Ducks Unlimited is extremely pleased with the Farm Bill signed into law. Senator Stabenow did a masterful job developing and negotiating a bill that generates great conservation benefits for Michigan's soil, water and wildlife. Hunters, anglers and conservationist feel fortunate to have programs that will advance a healthier Great Lakes." Bob Thompson, President of the Michigan Farmers Union, said: "The Michigan Farmers Union applauds passage of the 2014 Farm Bill. Finally our members, many of whom are small family farms that operate on razor thin margins, can make decisions with a measure of certainty. And because of this certainty, the rural communities our members live and work in will be made stronger. We recognize, however, that this would not have been possible had it not been for the leadership of Senator Stabenow and her relentless pressure to craft a comprehensive, bipartisan bill that is fair and equitable to all. The membership of the Michigan Farmers Union look forward to enjoying the fruits of the 2014 Farm Bill and stand ready to work together to enhance rural America." Wayne H. Wood, President of the Michigan Farm Bureau, said: "We appreciate Sen. Debbie Stabenow's determination and hard work in moving this legislation forward through so many challenges over the past few years. This is welcome news for Michigan and across the country. Sen. Stabenow's worked like a farmer to keep this bill moving forward, making fixes and fine-tuning all the little moving parts of the program and policies. Her strong will and perseverance are qualities our Michigan farmers both share and appreciate." Oran Hesterman, President and CEO of Fair Food Network, said: "This Farm Bill helps provide healthier, more sustainable food options for all of us. The bill supports innovative programs like Double Up Food Bucks, to increase access to healthy fruits and vegetables for families in need, while supporting farmers. I also want to thank Sen. Stabenow for ensuring the integrity of the food assistance program, which is critical to the food security of low-income Americans. I'm glad that Congress came together and passed this bill along bipartisan lines." Jim Zook, Executive Director of the Michigan Corn Growers Association, said: "Michigan's corn growers applaud Senator Stabenow for providing exactly the kind of bipartisan leadership this country needs to move forward. Michigan and U.S. agriculture continue to be bright spots in our economy, and this farm bill gives agriculture the stability it needs to continue to create growth and economic opportunities." Diane Smith, Executive Director of the Michigan Apple Committee, said: "The Michigan Apple Industry is so thankful for the important work Chairwoman Stabenow has done in building the Farm Bill in a way that supports Michigan's economy and agriculture. In today's economic climate, and considering the 2012 season's crop losses, the 2014 Farm Bill is even more critical to the survival and growth of Michigan's agriculture industry." Mike Wenkel, Manager of the Potato Growers of Michigan, said: "We appreciate the work that Senator Stabenow has done to highlight the strength and diversity of Michigan agriculture. Michigan's potato industry is on the rise and this farm bill gives potato growers the support we need to continue creating jobs and growing Michigan's economy." Ken Nobis, President of the Michigan Milk Producers Association, said: "Michigan dairy producers applaud Senator Stabenow for her leadership in reducing the deficit while bringing much needed reforms to government. Dairy is one of Michigan's top agricultural commodity, and U.S. dairy exports have more than doubled in the last ten years. We look forward to the passage of a farm bill that revamps current dairy policy and gives Michigan dairy farmers the tools we need to meet the increasing global demand while at the same time assuring U.S. consumers an abundant supply of milk." Kevin Korpi, Executive Director of the Michigan Forest Products Council, said: "The Farm Bill will propel Michigan's land based economy. The new law provides a framework for stable fiber supply and wood product markets. Thanks to Michigan US Senator Debbie Stabenow for her leadership on the issue. Because of the efforts of Senator Stabenow and her colleagues who supported the bill in Congress, Michigan's forest products industry will grow beyond the 154,000 jobs and $14 billion annually currently supported by the sector." John Bakker, Executive Director of the Michigan Asparagus Advisory Board, the Michigan Onion Committee and the Michigan Carrot Committee, said: "Senator Stabenow has once again come through for Michigan agriculture. Her tireless efforts to bring together all of agriculture - large and small farms, row crops, specialty crops and animal agriculture and garner broad bi-partisan support in the process needs to be commended. The farmers that I represent are especially appreciative of the Specialty Crop title and the opportunities it creates for some of our smaller commodity groups and we agree with the senator that this is actually a jobs bill." Val Vail-Shirey, Executive Director of the Michigan Floriculture Growers Council, said: "The Michigan Floriculture Growers Council applauds Chairwoman Stabenow for her bipartisan leadership on the 2014 Farm Bill. This legislation is a major boost to our state's $400 million floriculture industry, which supports thousands of jobs across Michigan." Erin McDonough, Executive Director of Michigan United Conservation Clubs, said: "This Farm Bill represents the single largest federal investment in private-lands conservation, and it contains strong provisions that will help America's producers meet the growing demand for food and fiber in an increasingly sustainable manner. The result is real conservation with multiple benefits for every part of Michigan - not the least of these is helping working landowners to stay on the land as stewards of America's legacy of natural resources. I want to thank Sen. Stabenow for sustaining and improving the integrity and effectiveness of these important conservation programs."Glen Chown, Executive Director, Grand Traverse Regional Land Conservancy, said: "We express our heartfelt appreciation for Chairwoman Stabenow's work on the landmark Conservation Title provisions in the 2014 Farm bill. Additionally, the newly streamlined approach to conservation holds great promise for new program efficiencies and for more services to be better understood and accessed by our area growers. We commend you and your staff for this innovative effort to simplify the easement programs in the Farm Bill while continuing to leverage partnerships with land trusts such as ours." Brian Price, Executive Director, Leelanau Conservancy, said: "Michigan and the nation owe Senator Stabenow a deep debt of gratitude for her leadership as Chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee in passage of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Farm Bill). Two arduous years of holding down the fort for this bipartisan achievement mean a stronger agricultural economy, meaningful conservation of productive farm lands and cleaner water resources. Her efforts have been nothing short of herculean, and we could not be more grateful to the Senator and her staff." Gail Frahm, Executive Director of the Michigan Soybean Association, said: "Michigan is the second most agriculturally diverse state in the nation and our agriculture sector has been growing rapidly over the past 10 years. This farm bill will give Michigan farmers the certainty we need to invest in the future and take advantage of new opportunities to continue that growth. This farm bill is one more example of Senator Stabenow's ongoing commitment to Michigan agriculture." Dave Armstrong, President and CEO of GreenStone Farm Credit Services, said: "Sound risk management practices like crop insurance help ensure financial stability for Michigan farmers, and make sure that farmers are not wiped out by one day of bad weather. This farm bill will reduce the deficit while preserving programs that help farmers mitigate risk and manage their resources effectively. We are pleased that the committee came together in a bipartisan manner to adopt these much needed reforms and urge Congress to act quickly on them." Joe Cramer, Executive Director of the Michigan Bean Commission, said: "Senator Stabenow deserves credit for listening to the concerns of Michigan agricultural leaders and farmers while passing a farm bill that reduces the deficit and reforms government. This bill cuts billions of dollars in spending while still preserving key programs that Michigan agriculture needs to continue competing globally. We look forward to continuing to work with her to find new ways to strengthen Michigan's agricultural economy." Ray VanDriessche, Director of Community and Government Relations, Michigan Sugar Company, said: "I want to thank Sen. Stabenow for putting together a critically important bill that will grow Michigan agriculture, strengthen Michigan's rural communities and create new jobs across the state. The bill saves billions of dollars while providing greater certainty for Michigan sugar producers. The Farm Bill is an important opportunity to further grow Michigan's thriving agriculture economy, invest in our rural communities, and create new jobs on and off the farm." Jennifer McKay, Policy Specialist, Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council, said: "Agriculture and land management play significant roles in impacting the health of the Great Lakes. If the region is to have a chance at saving the prized Great Lakes from ecosystem failure we must address nutrient and sediment pollution from agriculture. Fortunately, the Farm Bill does just that by encouraging farmers to use conservation practices that keep soil on the land and fertilizer out of the water. It funds programs that improve air and water quality, recharge groundwater aquifers, and create fish and wildlife habitat, thereby providing meaningful benefits to the overall health of our Great Lakes. We are lucky to have an agricultural champion in Senator Stabenow, and appreciate her leadership in standing up for conservation programs in this Farm Bill."
02.07.2014	2014 Farm Bill Signed in East Lansing Friday, February 07, 2014 At a special signing ceremony today on Michigan State University's campus, President Barack Obama signed into law the bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. The bill represents rare bipartisan agreement on a major jobs bill - legislation that will help grow Michigan's agriculture economy, the state's second-largest industry. The 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by $23 billion and represents the most significant reform of American agriculture policy in decades. Michigan State University is America's first land grant college and is a national leader in agriculture research. "I'm so pleased that President Obama chose to sign this landmark legislation here in Michigan," Chairwoman Stabenow said. "This Farm Bill is about our future, growing our agriculture economy, protecting food assistance for families in need of support, preserving our land and water, and reducing the deficit. With Michigan on every page, I can't think of a better place for this Farm Bill to become law than right here at my alma mater, Michigan State University." The bill has received widespread support and has been endorsed by a broad coalition of agriculture groups in Michigan, including the Agriculture Leaders of Michigan, Michigan Agri-Business Association, Cherry Marketing Institute, Ducks Unlimited, Michigan Farmers Union, Michigan Farm Bureau, Michigan United Conservation Clubs, Michigan Corn Growers, Michigan Milk Producers Association, Michigan Nature Conservancy, Pheasants Forever, Potato Growers of Michigan, Michigan Bean Commission, Michigan Sugar Company, Michigan Soybean Association, Michigan Floriculture Growers Council, GreenStone Farm Credit Services, Michigan Apple Committee, Michigan Association of Conservation Districts, National Wildlife Federation, Grand Traverse Land Conservancy, Cadillac Area Land Conservancy, Muskegon River Watershed Assembly, Leelanau Conservancy, Michigan Asparagus Advisory Board, Michigan Onion Committee, Michigan Carrot Committee, Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council, Michigan Forest Products Council and Six Rivers Land Conservancy. The bipartisan, five-year Farm Bill, entitled the Agricultural Act of 2014, will reform agriculture programs, reduce the deficit by $23 billion and help farmers and business owners grow Michigan's agriculture economy. The bill includes major reforms like eliminating the direct payment subsidy program, streamlining and consolidating other programs, and cracking down on fraud and misuse. The bill also invests in initiatives to help strengthen Michigan's fruit and vegetable industries, increase American agriculture exports, and help family farmers sell more goods locally. Additionally, the bill includes disaster assistance for Michigan's cherry growers and other specialty crop producers who were hit hard by freezes and other bad weather in recent years. The Farm Bill is the biggest investment in conservation the nation has made or is likely to make in years, including support for new regional partnerships for areas like the Great Lakes. Agriculture is critical to Michigan's economy:• Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.• Agriculture supports nearly one in four jobs in Michigan.• Agriculture exports are a bright spot in Michigan's continuing economic recovery. • Michigan is second in the nation in crop diversity, growing more variety of crops than any other state but California. The 2014 Farm Bill:• Eliminates unnecessary direct payment subsidies, a major reform in American agriculture policy. Direct payments are paid out every year whether or not there is a need.• Ends programs that are no longer working and consolidates duplicative programs, eliminating 100 programs or authorizations in total.• Strengthens crop insurance and makes it available to Michigan's specialty crop (i.e., fruit and vegetable) growers.• Helps farmers and ranchers create jobs and provides certainty for the 16 million Americans working in agriculture.• Includes Sen. Stabenow's Grow it Here, Make it Here initiative to create new jobs in biomanufacturing (manufacturing using raw agricultural products grown in America).• Achieves savings in food assistance solely by stopping fraud and misuse while maintaining support for families in need.• Streamlines and strengthens conservation efforts critical to Michigan, including a new Great Lakes Regional Partnership to help preserve the Great Lakes.• Cuts $23 billion in unnecessary spending. This is over double the amount of agriculture cuts recommended by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles Commission. The Senate and House Agriculture Committees are the only Congressional committees to produce bipartisan legislation cutting spending in their own jurisdiction. Ending Direct PaymentsThe 2014 Farm Bill saves taxpayer dollars by finally ending direct payment subsidies and other farm subsidy programs. Overall, this bill cuts farm program spending by $23.3 billion.This represents a landmark shift in federal agriculture policy:"The most important reform in the bill is the elimination of direct payments to farmers ... This program was one of the worst abuses in the federal budget, and negotiators in the House and Senate should be commended..." - The New York Times [1/29/14] "If signed into law, the subsidy cuts would mark one of the biggest changes to farm policy in years." - The Wall Street Journal [6/7/12] The Farm Bill is "genuinely a landmark shift ... away from direct cash payments to farmers - a much-criticized system begun in the mid-90s - and toward a more market-oriented approach keyed to crop insurance ... The stakes are big: a bipartisan bill promising real savings and impacting an important part of the economy." - Politico [6/12/12] Ending direct payments "represents one of the biggest policy changes in generations." - Bloomberg [4/26/2012] Strengthening Responsible Risk ManagementInstead of providing direct payments, which were paid every year whether they were needed or not, the 2014 Farm Bill requires farmers to take responsibility for their own risk management through tools that provide support only when there is a need - because of weather disaster or market volatility. The bill strengthens risk management tools like crop insurance to ensure farmers are not wiped out by weather disasters and protects Americans from sudden spikes in food prices. Farmers pay into crop insurance every year, sharing in the cost of disaster relief. Having an effective crop insurance program in place reduces the need for Congress to pass ad hoc disaster bills. The Farm Bill expands crop insurance protection for fruit growers who have not traditionally had access to it. The bill provides disaster relief to farmers who did not have access to crop insurance and were hit by weather disaster in recent years (such as Michigan fruit growers who saw crops wiped out by spring freezes in 2012). The bill also creates a permanent livestock disaster assistance program, and retroactively covers producers who were affected by the recent droughts and winter storms on the northern plains. Specialty Crops/ Fruits & VegetablesThe bipartisan Farm Bill strengthens programs for farmers producing "specialty crops" like cherries, apples, blueberries and asparagus, a significant portion of Michigan's farmers. Along with expanding crop insurance to many fruit and vegetable growers for the first time and providing disaster relief, the Farm Bill also strengthens specialty crop block grants to invest in research and promotion of specialty crops, provides funding to help stop pest and disease threats, helps family farmers sell more goods locally, continues assistance to organic producers, and expands efforts to improve access to healthy foods in urban and low-income communities and in schools. Streamlining Programs, Strengthening ConservationThe bipartisan Farm Bill is one of the most important conservation bills passed in years. Conservation is critical for Michigan, the Great Lakes and our way of life. Farmers and ranchers have an important role to play in protecting our land and water, and serve as stewards of the land. The 2014 Farm Bill consolidates 23 existing conservation programs into 13 - while maintaining existing tools to protect and conserve our land, water and wildlife, saving $6 billion. This approach is supported by nearly 650 conservation organizations from all 50 states. The bill also includes a landmark conservation compliance agreement, which ensures crop insurance remains strong while conserving millions of acres of vulnerable lands and resources that our farmers and ranchers will rely on for generations to come. These reforms reduce the deficit and increase resources for top priorities, like the new Great Lakes Regional Partnership - a public-private partnership that helps local farmers and conservation groups address environmental issues in their communities. Ending Fraud and Misuse in Food Assistance Programs, Protecting Benefits for Families It's critical that every food assistance dollar go to families in need. The bipartisan Farm Bill stops fraud and misuse to achieve savings in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, a.k.a. "food stamps") while maintaining critical assistance for families that need temporary support. The Farm Bill stops lottery winners from continuing to receive assistance (as was seen in high-profile cases in Michigan in recent years), cracks down on benefit trafficking, and closes a loophole being used by some states to artificially inflate benefits for a small number of recipients. The Farm Bill also provides new pilot programs to help people secure employment through job training and other services, giving them the resources necessary to earn a sustainable income. CBO estimates this section of the bill will save $8 billion without reducing the amount of benefits anyone is intended to receive under the current rules of the program. The Farm Bill also doubles SNAP benefits for low-income families when they buy healthy produce at farmers' markets (for funding for programs like Detroit's "Double-Up Food Bucks", increases funding for food banks, and provides financing for new grocery stores in under-served neighborhoods. The bill also reforms international food aid programs, allowing America to feed 500,000 more hungry people around the world with no additional cost. Growing the Agriculture EconomyThe bipartisan Farm Bill grows Michigan agriculture, our second-largest industry. The Farm Bill: • Boosts export opportunities to help farmers find new global markets for their goods.• Helps family farmers sell locally, supporting farmers' markets and spurring the creation of food hubs connecting farmers to schools and community-based organizations.• Supports beginning farmers with training and access to capital and creates initiatives to help veterans start agriculture businesses.• Expands bio-energy production, supporting non-food based, advanced biomass energy production and grows American biomanufacturing to help businesses create jobs.• Invests in research to promote new agricultural innovations.• Strengthens rural development initiatives to help rural communities upgrade infrastructure and create a better environment for businesses. The Farm Bill's investments in risk management and programs helping farmers, ranchers and businesses create jobs total $14.2 billion. With all spending cuts and investments, the 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by a net total of $23 billion.
02.06.2014	Republicans Block Unemployment Insurance in Senate Again Thursday, February 06, 2014 Legislation that would extend emergency unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who are looking for work was blocked by a Republican filibuster in the Senate today. U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow voted in favor of the measure, which would extend benefits for three months and retroactively restore emergency unemployment insurance to thousands of Michigan families. Unemployment insurance for nearly 60,000 people in Michigan expired on Dec. 28 after Republicans blocked an effort to extend the program into 2014. Previous attempts to move forward on this critical temporary assistance were also blocked by Republicans, despite historically bipartisan support for the legislation that was first enacted under President Bush. "It is outrageous that Republicans are playing political games with the emergency help people need to put food on the table, keep the heat on during these extremely cold temperatures, and keep a roof over their head while they look for a job," said Stabenow. "When President Bush first signed this emergency support into law in 2008, like during past downturns, this kind of temporary assistance was approved on a bipartisan basis. We should be helping people who are looking for work, not pulling the rug out from under them." Extended unemployment insurance has historically been passed on a bipartisan basis during times of high unemployment to help struggling families and to help bolster the economy. Emergency unemployment insurance was passed in the heart of the recent downturn in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as unemployment has remained above average. While the economy has been recovering over the past several years, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began, and there are still three unemployed people looking for work for every one job available. When President Bush first signed extended unemployment benefits in 2008, the national unemployment rate was 5.6%. The national unemployment rate is currently 6.7%, and in Michigan the rate is 8.4%. The Bureau of Labor and Statistics is expected to release unemployment updated numbers from January 2014 tomorrow. The legislation that was voted on today would provide a three-month benefit extension, retroactive to Dec. 28, 2013. Economists agree that extended unemployment insurance provides a boost to the economy. Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would hurt job growth throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. The CEA estimates that in Michigan alone, failing to extend the program will cost 8,450 jobs.
02.05.2014	Walkerville Area Fire & Rescue Receives Support Wednesday, February 05, 2014 Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced that Walkerville Area Fire & Rescue will receive federal support to recruit and retain emergency personnel. "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Walkerville," said Stabenow. "This grant will help the Walkerville Area Fire & Rescue department recruit and retain first responders to protect the public." "Firefighters stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "This grant will help Walkerville Fire & Rescue recruit and hire more first responders so they can meet their responsibility of protecting lives and property in their community." The fire department will receive $159,899 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, a competitive grant process to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the frontline firefighters they need to maintain 24-hour staffing.
02.04.2014	Senate Approves Senator Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill Tuesday, February 04, 2014 The U.S. Senate today voted overwhelmingly to approve the bipartisan Farm Bill authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, by a vote of 68-32. The bill represents rare bipartisan agreement on a major jobs bill, legislation that will help grow Michigan's agriculture economy, the state's second-largest industry. The 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by $23 billion and represents the most significant reform of American agriculture policy in decades. The Farm Bill was approved by the House last week and will now head to the White House for the president's signature. "This isn't your father's Farm Bill. It is a bill for our future that grows our agriculture economy, helps provide greater access to healthy Michigan-grown foods, preserves our land and water, and cuts unnecessary spending. The Farm Bill is a rare example of a major bipartisan jobs bill and a bipartisan deficit reduction bill," Chairwoman Stabenow said. "We were also able to protect food assistance for families in need of support, while finding savings solely by focusing on fraud and misuse. "We proved that by working together across party lines, Congress can save taxpayer money and strengthen critical investments that lay the foundation for economic growth. "It's been a long road, with many challenges. I'm very proud that we maintained strong bipartisanship throughout this entire process. In the end, Congress came together to support 16 million American jobs, save taxpayers billions and implement the most significant reforms to agriculture programs in decades." The bill has received widespread support and has been endorsed by a broad coalition of agriculture groups in Michigan, including the Michigan Agri-Business Association, Michigan Farm Bureau, Michigan Farmers Union, Michigan United Conservation Clubs, Michigan Corn Growers, Michigan Milk Producers Association, Potato Growers of Michigan, Michigan Bean Commission, Cherry Marketing Council, Michigan Sugar Company, Michigan Soybean Association, and GreenStone Farm Credit Services, Cadillac Area Land Conservancy, Muskegon River Watershed Assembly, Leelanau Conservancy, Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council, Michigan Forest Products Council and Six Rivers Land Conservancy. The bipartisan, five-year Farm Bill, entitled the Agricultural Act of 2014, will reform agriculture programs, reduce the deficit by $23 billion and help farmers and business owners grow Michigan's agriculture economy. Agriculture is critical to Michigan's economy:• Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.• Agriculture supports nearly one in four jobs in Michigan.• Agriculture exports are a bright spot in Michigan's continuing economic recovery. • Michigan is second in the nation in crop diversity, growing more variety of crops than any other state but California. The 2014 Farm Bill: • Eliminates unnecessary direct payment subsidies, a major reform in American agriculture policy. Direct payments are paid out every year whether or not there is a need.• Ends programs that are no longer working and consolidates duplicative programs, eliminating 100 programs or authorizations in total.• Strengthens crop insurance and makes it available to Michigan's specialty crop (i.e., fruit and vegetable) growers.• Helps farmers and ranchers create jobs and provides certainty for the 16 million Americans working in agriculture. • Includes Sen. Stabenow's Grow it Here, Make it Here initiative to create new jobs in biomanufacturing (manufacturing using raw agricultural products grown in America).• Achieves savings in food assistance solely by stopping fraud and misuse while maintaining support for families in need.• Streamlines and strengthens conservation efforts critical to Michigan, including a new Great Lakes Regional Partnership to help preserve the Great Lakes.• Cuts $23 billion in unnecessary spending. This is over double the amount of agriculture cuts recommended by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles Commission. The Senate and House Agriculture Committees are the only Congressional committees to produce bipartisan legislation cutting spending in their own jurisdiction. Ending Direct Payments The 2014 Farm Bill saves taxpayer dollars by finally ending direct payment subsidies and other farm subsidy programs. Overall, this bill cuts farm program spending by $23.3 billion This represents a landmark shift in federal agriculture policy: "The most important reform in the bill is the elimination of direct payments to farmers ... This program was one of the worst abuses in the federal budget, and negotiators in the House and Senate should be commended..." - The New York Times [1/29/14]"If signed into law, the subsidy cuts would mark one of the biggest changes to farm policy in years." - The Wall Street Journal [6/7/12] The Farm Bill is "genuinely a landmark shift ... away from direct cash payments to farmers - a much-criticized system begun in the mid-90s - and toward a more market-oriented approach keyed to crop insurance ... The stakes are big: a bipartisan bill promising real savings and impacting an important part of the economy." - Politico [6/12/12] Ending direct payments "represents one of the biggest policy changes in generations." - Bloomberg [4/26/2012] Strengthening Responsible Risk Management Instead of providing direct payments, which were paid every year whether they were needed or not, the 2014 Farm Bill requires farmers to take responsibility for their own risk management through tools that provide support only when there is a need - because of weather disaster or market volatility. The bill strengthens risk management tools like crop insurance to ensure farmers are not wiped out by weather disasters and protects Americans from sudden spikes in food prices. Farmers pay into crop insurance every year, sharing in the cost of disaster relief. Having an effective crop insurance program in place reduces the need for Congress to pass ad hoc disaster bills. The Farm Bill expands crop insurance protection for fruit growers who have not traditionally had access to it. The bill provides disaster relief to farmers who did not have access to crop insurance and were hit by weather disaster in recent years (such as Michigan fruit growers who saw crops wiped out by spring freezes in 2012). The bill also creates a permanent livestock disaster assistance program, and retroactively covers producers who were affected by the recent droughts and winter storms on the northern plains. Specialty Crops/ Fruits & Vegetables The bipartisan Farm Bill strengthens programs for farmers producing "specialty crops" like cherries, apples, blueberries and asparagus, a significant portion of Michigan's farmers. Along with expanding crop insurance to many fruit and vegetable growers for the first time and providing disaster relief, the Farm Bill also strengthens specialty crop block grants to invest in research and promotion of specialty crops, provides funding to help stop pest and disease threats, helps family farmers sell more goods locally, continues assistance to organic producers, and expands efforts to improve access to healthy foods in urban and low-income communities and in schools. Streamlining Programs, Strengthening Conservation The bipartisan Farm Bill is one of the most important conservation bills passed in years. Conservation is critical for Michigan, the Great Lakes and our way of life. Farmers and ranchers have an important role to play in protecting our land and water, and serve as stewards of the land. The 2014 Farm Bill consolidates 23 existing conservation programs into 13 - while maintaining existing tools to protect and conserve our land, water and wildlife, saving $6 billion. This approach is supported by nearly 650 conservation organizations from all 50 states. The bill also includes a landmark conservation compliance agreement, which ensures crop insurance remains strong while conserving millions of acres of vulnerable lands and resources that our farmers and ranchers will rely on for generations to come. These reforms reduce the deficit and increase resources for top priorities, like the new Great Lakes Regional Partnership - a public-private partnership that helps local farmers and conservation groups address environmental issues in their communities. Ending Fraud and Misuse in Food Assistance Programs, Protecting Benefits for Families It's critical that every food assistance dollar go to families in need. The bipartisan Farm Bill stops fraud and misuse to achieve savings in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, a.k.a. "food stamps") while maintaining critical assistance for families that need temporary support. The Farm Bill stops lottery winners from continuing to receive assistance (as was seen in high-profile cases in Michigan in recent years), cracks down on benefit trafficking, and closes a loophole being used by some states to artificially inflate benefits for a small number of recipients. The Farm Bill also provides new pilot programs to help people secure employment through job training and other services, giving them the resources necessary to earn a sustainable income. CBO estimates this section of the bill will save $8 billion without reducing the amount of benefits anyone is intended to receive under the current rules of the program. The Farm Bill also doubles SNAP benefits for low-income families when they buy healthy produce at farmers' markets (for funding for programs like Detroit's "Double-Up Food Bucks", increases funding for food banks, and provides financing for new grocery stores in under-served neighborhoods. The bill also reforms international food aid programs, allowing America to feed 500,000 more hungry people around the world with no additional cost. Growing the Agriculture Economy The bipartisan Farm Bill grows Michigan agriculture, our second-largest industry. The Farm Bill: • Boosts export opportunities to help farmers find new global markets for their goods.• Helps family farmers sell locally, supporting farmers' markets and spurring the creation of food hubs connecting farmers to schools and community-based organizations.• Supports beginning farmers with training and access to capital and creates initiatives to help veterans start agriculture businesses. • Expands bio-energy production, supporting non-food based, advanced biomass energy production and grows American biomanufacturing to help businesses create jobs.• Invests in research to promote new agricultural innovations.• Strengthens rural development initiatives to help rural communities upgrade infrastructure and create a better environment for businesses. The Farm Bill's investments in risk management and programs helping farmers, ranchers and businesses create jobs total $14.2 billion. With all spending cuts and investments, the 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by a net total of $23 billion.
02.03.2014	U.S. Senate Votes to Move Forward on Chairwoman Stabenow’s 2014 Farm Bill Monday, February 03, 2014 The Senate today overwhelmingly voted 72-22 to move forward on the 2014 Farm Bill, overcoming the bill's last procedural hurdle and clearing the way for a vote on final passage tomorrow. The Farm Bill is authored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. The bill represents rare bipartisan agreement on a major jobs bill that will help grow a key sector of our economy. Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry. The 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by $23 billion, ends unnecessary direct payment subsidies, increases support for healthy and locally grown Michigan foods, and is the country's largest investment in land and water conservation in years. The bill was approved by a bipartisan vote by the House of Representatives last week. If the Senate approves the bill tomorrow, it will head to the President for his signature. "Cooperation across the aisle is rare these days in Washington, but Congress is on the verge of taking bipartisan action that will create jobs and help reduce the deficit," Stabenow said. "This is not your father's Farm Bill. It implements major reforms and ends unnecessary subsidies. This bill will provide an incredible boost to agriculture, Michigan's second largest industry. The Farm Bill protects food assistance for families while achieving savings in the food assistance program solely through addressing fraud and misuse. Tomorrow, Congress can pass a bipartisan bill that helps take us into the future and beyond the policies of the past." The bill has received widespread support and has been endorsed by a broad coalition of agriculture groups in Michigan, including the Michigan Agri-Business Association, Michigan Farm Bureau, Michigan United Conservation Clubs, Michigan Corn Growers, Michigan Milk Producers Association, Potato Growers of Michigan, Michigan Bean Commission, Cherry Marketing Council, Michigan Sugar Company, Michigan Soybean Association, GreenStone Farm Credit Services, Cadillac Area Land Conservancy, Muskegon River Watershed Assembly, Leelanau Conservancy, Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council, Michigan Forest Products Council and Six Rivers Land Conservancy. The bipartisan, five-year Farm Bill, entitled the Agricultural Act of 2014, will reform agriculture programs, reduce the deficit by $23 billion and help farmers and business owners grow Michigan's agriculture economy. Agriculture is critical to Michigan's economy:• Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry.• Agriculture supports nearly one in four jobs in Michigan.• Agriculture exports are a bright spot in Michigan's continuing economic recovery. • Michigan is second in the nation in crop diversity, growing more variety of crops than any other state but California. The 2014 Farm Bill: • Eliminates unnecessary direct payment subsidies, a major reform in American agriculture policy. Direct payments are paid out every year whether or not there is a need.• Ends programs that are no longer working and consolidates duplicative programs, eliminating 100 programs or authorizations in total.• Strengthens crop insurance and makes it available to Michigan's specialty crop (i.e., fruit and vegetable) growers.• Helps farmers and ranchers create jobs and provides certainty for the 16 million Americans working in agriculture. • Includes Sen. Stabenow's Grow it Here, Make it Here initiative to create new jobs in biomanufacturing (manufacturing using raw agricultural products grown in America).• Achieves savings in food assistance solely by stopping fraud and misuse while maintaining support for families in need.• Streamlines and strengthens conservation efforts critical to Michigan, including a new Great Lakes Regional Partnership to help preserve the Great Lakes.• Cuts $23 billion in unnecessary spending. This is over double the amount of agriculture cuts recommended by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles Commission. The Senate and House Agriculture Committees are the only Congressional committees to produce bipartisan legislation cutting spending in their own jurisdiction. Ending Direct Payments The 2014 Farm Bill saves taxpayer dollars by finally ending direct payment subsidies and other farm subsidy programs. Overall, this bill cuts farm program spending by $23.3 billion This represents a landmark shift in federal agriculture policy: "The most important reform in the bill is the elimination of direct payments to farmers ... This program was one of the worst abuses in the federal budget, and negotiators in the House and Senate should be commended..." - The New York Times [1/29/14]"If signed into law, the subsidy cuts would mark one of the biggest changes to farm policy in years." - The Wall Street Journal [6/7/12] The Farm Bill is "genuinely a landmark shift ... away from direct cash payments to farmers - a much-criticized system begun in the mid-90s - and toward a more market-oriented approach keyed to crop insurance ... The stakes are big: a bipartisan bill promising real savings and impacting an important part of the economy." - Politico [6/12/12] Ending direct payments "represents one of the biggest policy changes in generations." - Bloomberg [4/26/2012] Strengthening Responsible Risk Management Instead of providing direct payments, which were paid every year whether they were needed or not, the 2014 Farm Bill requires farmers to take responsibility for their own risk management through tools that provide support only when there is a need - because of weather disaster or market volatility. The bill strengthens risk management tools like crop insurance to ensure farmers are not wiped out by weather disasters and protects Americans from sudden spikes in food prices. Farmers pay into crop insurance every year, sharing in the cost of disaster relief. Having an effective crop insurance program in place reduces the need for Congress to pass ad hoc disaster bills. The Farm Bill expands crop insurance protection for fruit growers who have not traditionally had access to it. The bill provides disaster relief to farmers who did not have access to crop insurance and were hit by weather disaster in recent years (such as Michigan fruit growers who saw crops wiped out by spring freezes in 2012). The bill also creates a permanent livestock disaster assistance program, and retroactively covers producers who were affected by the recent droughts and winter storms on the northern plains. Specialty Crops/ Fruits & Vegetables The bipartisan Farm Bill strengthens programs for farmers producing "specialty crops" like cherries, apples, blueberries and asparagus, a significant portion of Michigan's farmers. Along with expanding crop insurance to many fruit and vegetable growers for the first time and providing disaster relief, the Farm Bill also strengthens specialty crop block grants to invest in research and promotion of specialty crops, provides funding to help stop pest and disease threats, helps family farmers sell more goods locally, continues assistance to organic producers, and expands efforts to improve access to healthy foods in urban and low-income communities and in schools. Streamlining Programs, Strengthening Conservation The bipartisan Farm Bill is one of the most important conservation bills passed in years. Conservation is critical for Michigan, the Great Lakes and our way of life. Farmers and ranchers have an important role to play in protecting our land and water, and serve as stewards of the land. The 2014 Farm Bill consolidates 23 existing conservation programs into 13 - while maintaining existing tools to protect and conserve our land, water and wildlife, saving $6 billion. This approach is supported by nearly 650 conservation organizations from all 50 states. The bill also includes a landmark conservation compliance agreement, which ensures crop insurance remains strong while conserving millions of acres of vulnerable lands and resources that our farmers and ranchers will rely on for generations to come. These reforms reduce the deficit and increase resources for top priorities, like the new Great Lakes Regional Partnership - a public-private partnership that helps local farmers and conservation groups address environmental issues in their communities. Ending Fraud and Misuse in Food Assistance Programs, Protecting Benefits for Families It's critical that every food assistance dollar go to families in need. The bipartisan Farm Bill stops fraud and misuse to achieve savings in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, a.k.a. "food stamps") while maintaining critical assistance for families that need temporary support. The Farm Bill stops lottery winners from continuing to receive assistance (as was seen in high-profile cases in Michigan in recent years), cracks down on benefit trafficking, and closes a loophole being used by some states to artificially inflate benefits for a small number of recipients. The Farm Bill provides new pilot programs to help people secure employment through job training and other services, giving them the resources necessary to earn a sustainable income. CBO estimates this will save $8 billion without reducing the amount of benefits anyone is intended to receive under the current rules of the program. The Farm Bill also doubles SNAP benefits for low-income families when they buy healthy produce at farmers' markets (for funding for programs like Detroit's "Double-Up Food Bucks", increases funding for food banks, and provides financing for new grocery stores in under-served neighborhoods. The bill reforms international food aid programs, allowing America to feed 500,000 more hungry people around the world with no additional cost. Growing the Agriculture Economy The bipartisan Farm Bill grows Michigan agriculture, our second-largest industry. The Farm Bill: • Boosts export opportunities to help farmers find new global markets for their goods.• Helps family farmers sell locally, supporting farmers' markets and spurring the creation of food hubs connecting farmers to schools and community-based organizations.• Supports beginning farmers with training and access to capital and creates initiatives to help veterans start agriculture businesses. • Expands bio-energy production, supporting non-food based, advanced biomass energy production and grows American biomanufacturing to help businesses create jobs.• Invests in research to promote new agricultural innovations.• Strengthens rural development initiatives to help rural communities upgrade infrastructure and create a better environment for businesses. The Farm Bill's investments in risk management and programs helping farmers, ranchers and businesses create jobs total $14.2 billion. With all spending cuts and investments, the 2014 Farm Bill reduces the deficit by a net total of $23 billion.
01.30.2014	Great Lakes Maritime Academy Receives Support for Education and Training Thursday, January 30, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced support for the Great Lakes Maritime Academy at Northwest Michigan College's Great Lakes Campus. The Academy will receive a $1 million grant, which comes through the Department of Transportation, to be used for education and training. "Just last week I had the opportunity to visit the Great Lakes Maritime Academy and see our cadets piloting ships using the Academy's new state-of-the-art simulator," said Stabenow. "Our Great Lakes support hundreds of thousands of jobs. This support will help Northern Michigan's Maritime Academy continue to be the go-to institution for training the future leaders of our commercial shipping industry." "Shipping is a major driver of the Great Lakes economy, and trained crews are essential to the safe and efficient operation of our merchant fleet," said Levin. "As the only freshwater institution of its kind, the Great Lakes Maritime Academy is essential to the region's economy and to continuing our maritime heritage, and I'm pleased that this federal support will help it fulfill its vital mission." The Great Lakes Maritime Academy trains deck and engineering officers for the commercial shipping industry. The Academy is the only maritime academy in the United States that offers graduates the opportunity to be licensed to work on the Great Lakes and on the sea. The $1 million grant was made possible by the sale of obsolete vessels from the Maritime Administration's National Defense Reserve Fleet, which were purchased for recycling. The National Maritime Heritage Act requires 25 percent of the sales be distributed to maritime academies for facility and training ship maintenance, repair, and modernization, and for the purchase of simulators and fuel.
01.30.2014	Senators Stabenow, Levin Urge Action to Ease Midwest Propane Shortage Thursday, January 30, 2014 U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin of Michigan wrote today to President Obama urging action to respond to a propane gas shortage in the Midwest that has affected thousands of Michigan homes and businesses. Noting that propane prices have more than doubled for some consumers, Stabenow and Levin urged the president to direct his administration to ensure that rising prices are not due to excessive speculation; to extend an emergency declaration that facilitates transportation of propane; to limit exports that may exacerbate U.S. shortages; and to ensure that federal assistance is available to help low-income and senior households with energy bills. The full text of their letter follows: January 30, 2014President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Ave, N.W.Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: Action is required to deal with the dire propane shortage in the Midwest. Households and businesses in Michigan are experiencing shortages and major price increases due to the low propane supply in the area. The extreme cold weather this winter makes the shortage especially grim for many families, as they face disruptions in the propane supply necessary to heat their homes, farms and businesses. Immediate action is needed. The Energy Information Administration estimated last week that propane prices reached nearly $2.50 per gallon at Conway, the Midwest hub for propane storage and distribution; this week the price jumped to $4.01 per gallon. We have heard some reports from Michigan that prices are reaching $6.29 per gallon in some communities. We are concerned that the extreme price increases could be due, at least in part, to excessive speculation. We urge you to direct federal agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, to investigate and stop any predatory actions. The Department of Transportation has declared an emergency for the Midwest, to suspend certain safety requirements, including hours of service, for motor carriers and drivers involved in any relief efforts. Currently, this emergency action expires on February 11. We ask that the declaration be extended, until the propane shortage is resolved. We ask that you direct any other options, which might be available, to be exercised relative to other modes of transportation, like rail or pipeline, to facilitate propane flow to the Midwest. We are concerned that propane exports could be exacerbating the current shortage in the United States. We request that you to direct the Commerce Department to take action under the Export Administration Regulations to limit exports in order to protect the domestic economy from the impacts of this shortage. Finally, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) assists low income and senior households with their energy bills. We hope that all possible avenues of additional funding will be explored to help households with heating their homes through the propane shortage and price spikes. Thank you for your consideration and attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely, Debbie StabenowCarl Levin
01.29.2014	Benton Harbor and Muskegon Heights Fire Departments Receive Support to Hire Emergency Personnel Wednesday, January 29, 2014 Two West Michigan fire departments will receive new federal support to hire emergency personnel, U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced today. The Benton Charter Township Fire Department near Benton Harbor will receive a $225,496 federal grant, and the Muskegon Heights Fire Department will receive $995,000. "Across southwest Michigan, our firefighters provide courageous service to communities like Benton Charter Township and Muskegon Heights," said Stabenow. "This grant will help both fire departments hire more first responders to protect the public." "Our first responders are skilled and dedicated, and we need to provide the support their departments need to keep them on the job protecting our communities," Levin said. "These grants are an important part of meeting that responsibility." Both grants come from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program. SAFER grants are awarded on a competitive basis to help local fire departments maintain 24-hour staffing.
01.29.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Applauds House Passage of Farm Bill Wednesday, January 29, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today applauded the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the 2014 Farm Bill by a bipartisan vote of 251-166. The bill now heads to the Senate, where it is expected to be voted on soon. "We are on the verge of achieving major reform," said Stabenow. "Today's House vote puts us one step closer to finally enacting a five-year Farm Bill that helps farmers and businesses create jobs in Michigan and saves taxpayers billions. This bill eliminates unnecessary subsidies, creates a more effective farm safety-net and strengthens our commitment to conservation of land and water." Stabenow continued, "It's now up to the Senate to take the final step. The Senate has twice passed the farm bill with overwhelming bipartisan support. I have no doubt we'll do it again, and show that it is possible to do something to reduce the deficit and boost the economy when people work across the aisle." Agriculture is critical to Michigan's economy: • Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry. • Agriculture supports nearly one in four jobs in Michigan. • Agriculture exports are a bright spot in Michigan's continuing economic recovery. • Michigan is second in the nation in crop diversity, growing more variety of crops than any other state but California. The 2014 Farm Bill: • Eliminates unnecessary direct payment subsidies, a significant reform in American agriculture policy. Direct payments are paid out every year whether or not there is a need for support. • Ends programs that are no longer working and consolidates duplicative programs, eliminating 100 programs or authorizations in total. • Strengthens crop insurance and makes it available to Michigan's specialty crop growers, like cherry and blueberry growers. • Includes Senator Stabenow's Grow it Here, Make it Here initiative to create new jobs in biomanufacturing (manufacturing using raw agricultural products grown in America). • Helps farmers and ranchers create jobs and provides certainty for the 16 million Americans working in agriculture. • Achieves savings in food assistance by stopping fraud and misuse while maintaining support for families in need. • Streamlines and strengthens conservation efforts critical to Michigan, including a new Great Lakes Regional Partnership to help preserve the Great Lakes. • Cuts unnecessary spending. The Senate and House Agriculture Committees are the only Congressional committees to produce bipartisan legislation cutting spending in their own jurisdiction. Ending Direct Payments The 2014 Farm Bill framework saves taxpayer dollars by finally ending direct payment subsidies and other farm subsidy programs. This represents a landmark shift in federal agriculture policy: "If signed into law, the subsidy cuts would mark one of the biggest changes to farm policy in years." - The Wall Street Journal [6/7/12] The Farm Bill is "genuinely a landmark shift ... away from direct cash payments to farmers - a much-criticized system begun in the mid-90s - and toward a more market-oriented approach keyed to crop insurance ... The stakes are big: a bipartisan bill promising real savings and impacting an important part of the economy." - Politico [6/12/12] Ending direct payments "represents one of the biggest policy changes in generations." - Bloomberg [4/26/2012] Strengthening Responsible Risk Management Instead of providing direct payments, which were paid every year whether they were needed or not, the 2014 Farm Bill provides farmers with responsible risk management tools that provide support only when there is a need - when disaster strikes or prices drop. The bill strengthens risk management tools like crop insurance to ensure farmers are not wiped out by weather disasters, and protects Americans from sudden spikes in food prices. Farmers pay into crop insurance every year, ensuring they share in the cost of disaster relief. Having an effective crop insurance program in place also reduces the need for Congress to pass ad hoc disaster bills. The Farm Bill expands crop insurance protection for fruit growers who have not traditionally had access to it. The bill provides disaster relief to farmers who did not have access to crop insurance and were hit by weather disaster in recent years (such as Michigan fruit growers who saw crops wiped out by spring freezes in 2012). The bill also creates a permanent livestock disaster assistance program, and retroactively covers producers who were affected by the recent droughts and winter storms on the northern plains this year. Specialty Crops/ Fruits & Vegetables The bipartisan Farm Bill strengthens programs for farmers producing "specialty crops" like cherries, apples, blueberries and asparagus, a significant portion of Michigan's farmers. Along with expanding crop insurance to many fruit and vegetable growers for the first time and providing disaster relief, the Farm Bill also strengthens specialty crop block grants to invest in research and promotion of specialty crops, provides funding to help stop pest and disease threats, helps family farmers sell more goods locally, continues assistance to organic producers, and expands efforts to improve access to healthy foods in urban and low-income communities and in schools. Streamlining Programs, Strengthening Conservation The bipartisan Farm Bill is one of the most important conservation bills passed in years. Conservation is critical for Michigan, the Great Lakes and our way of life. Farmers have an important role to play in protecting our land and water. From preventing fertilizer runoff into waterways to managing fish and wildlife populations on their land, growers and ranchers serve as stewards of the land. The 2014 Farm Bill consolidates 23 existing conservation programs into 13 - while maintaining existing tools to protect and conserve our land, water and wildlife. This approach is supported by nearly 650 conservation organizations from all 50 states. The bill also includes a landmark conservation compliance agreement, which will ensure crop insurance remains strong while conserving millions of acres of vulnerable lands and natural resources that our nation's farmers and ranchers will rely on for generations to come. These reforms increase resources for top priorities, like the new Great Lakes Regional Partnership, while reducing the deficit. Ending Fraud and Misuse in Food Assistance Programs, Protecting Benefits for Families It's critical that every food assistance dollar go to families in need. The bipartisan Farm Bill agreement stops fraud and misuse to achieve savings in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, a.k.a. "food stamps") while maintaining critical assistance for families that need temporary support. The Farm Bill stops lottery winners from continuing to receive assistance (as was seen in high-profile cases in Michigan in recent years), cracks down on benefit trafficking, and closes a loophole being used by some states to artificially inflate benefits for a small number of recipients. The Farm Bill also provides new pilot programs to help people secure employment through job training and other services, giving them the resources necessary to earn a sustainable income. Growing the Agriculture Economy The bipartisan Farm Bill agreement reduces the deficit while strengthening top priorities that help to grow the agriculture economy. The Farm Bill: • Boosts export opportunities to help farmers find new global markets for their goods. • Helps family farmers sell locally, increasing support for farmers' markets and spurring the creation of food hubs to connect farmers to schools and other community-based organizations. • Supports beginning farmers with training and access to capital and creates initiatives to help veterans start agriculture businesses. • Grows American biomanufacturing. • Expands bio-energy production, supporting non-food based, advanced biomass energy production such as cellulosic ethanol and woody biomass power. • Invests in research to promote new agricultural innovations. • Strengthens rural development initiatives to help rural communities upgrade infrastructure and create a better environment for businesses
01.29.2014	Senator Stabenow’s Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address Wednesday, January 29, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's State of the Union Address:"We can't have a strong middle class unless we make things and grow things here in America. "President Obama is right about the importance of agriculture to our economy. Congress can help American farmers, ranchers and businesses further boost Agriculture exports and create more jobs by passing our bipartisan Farm Bill in the coming days. "It's very encouraging the President remains focused on manufacturing, which is making a comeback and helping to drive our economic recovery. I was glad to hear his call for legislation like my Bring Jobs Home Act, to end tax breaks for companies that send jobs overseas and cut taxes for businesses bringing jobs home. "The President told the story of Detroit entrepreneur Andra Rush to illustrate the importance of closing the skills gap. Businesses want to hire but can't find workers with the right skills to match the jobs available. Legislation like my New Skills for New Jobs Act will help pair people with community colleges to get the training they need for cutting-edge, advanced manufacturing jobs. "While the economy continues to recover, Congress must extend unemployment insurance for families still looking for work so they can keep the heat on and a roof over their heads. And we must raise the minimum wage so that people in Michigan who work full time aren't living in poverty. "It is critical that Members of Congress continue to work across the aisle, like we did on the Farm bill, to help businesses create jobs and ensure families working hard have opportunities for themselves and their children."
01.27.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Bipartisan Agreement on Final Farm Bill Monday, January 27, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced a bipartisan, bicameral agreement on a five-year Farm Bill that will reform farm programs, reduce the deficit, and help farmers and businesses create jobs in agriculture, our state's second-largest industry. The bill includes major reforms like eliminating the direct payment subsidy program, streamlining and consolidating other programs, and cracking down on fraud and misuse. The bill also invests in initiatives to help strengthen Michigan's fruit and vegetable industries, increase American agriculture exports, and help family farmers sell more goods locally. Additionally, the bill includes disaster assistance for Michigan's cherry growers and other specialty crop producers who were hit hard by freezes and other bad weather in recent years. The bipartisan agreement could be voted on by the House as early as this week. The Senate could then vote on the bill as early as next week. "Today's bipartisan agreement brings us closer than ever to enacting a five-year Farm Bill that saves taxpayers billions, eliminates unnecessary subsidies, and helps farmers and business owners create jobs," said Stabenow. "This bill proves that by working across party lines we can save taxpayer money while at the same time strengthening efforts helping to create jobs. Agriculture has been a bright spot in our economy and is helping to drive our country's economic recovery. It's time for Congress to finish this Farm Bill to provide certainty for the farmers and business owners growing Michigan's second-largest industry." Agriculture is critical to Michigan's economy: • Agriculture is Michigan's second-largest industry. • Agriculture supports nearly one in four jobs in Michigan. • Agriculture exports are a bright spot in Michigan's continuing economic recovery. • Michigan is second in the nation in crop diversity, growing more variety of crops than any other state but California. The 2014 Farm Bill: • Eliminates unnecessary direct payment subsidies, a significant reform in American agriculture policy. Direct payments are paid out every year whether or not there is a need for support. • Ends programs that are no longer working and consolidates duplicative programs, eliminating 100 programs or authorizations in total. • Strengthens crop insurance and makes it available to Michigan's specialty crop growers, like cherry and blueberry growers. • Includes Senator Stabenow's Grow it Here, Make it Here initiative to create new jobs in biomanufacturing (manufacturing using raw agricultural products grown in America). • Helps farmers and ranchers create jobs and provides certainty for the 16 million Americans working in agriculture. • Achieves savings in food assistance by stopping fraud and misuse while maintaining support for families in need. • Streamlines and strengthens conservation efforts critical to Michigan, including a new Great Lakes Regional Partnership to help preserve the Great Lakes. • Cuts unnecessary spending. The Senate and House Agriculture Committees are the only Congressional committees to produce bipartisan legislation cutting spending in their own jurisdiction. Ending Direct Payments The 2014 Farm Bill framework saves taxpayer dollars by finally ending direct payment subsidies and other farm subsidy programs. This represents a landmark shift in federal agriculture policy: "If signed into law, the subsidy cuts would mark one of the biggest changes to farm policy in years." - The Wall Street Journal [6/7/12] The Farm Bill is "genuinely a landmark shift ... away from direct cash payments to farmers - a much-criticized system begun in the mid-90s - and toward a more market-oriented approach keyed to crop insurance ... The stakes are big: a bipartisan bill promising real savings and impacting an important part of the economy." - Politico [6/12/12] Ending direct payments "represents one of the biggest policy changes in generations." - Bloomberg [4/26/2012] Strengthening Responsible Risk Management Instead of providing direct payments, which were paid every year whether they were needed or not, the 2014 Farm Bill provides farmers with responsible risk management tools that provide support only when there is a need - when disaster strikes or prices drop. The bill strengthens risk management tools like crop insurance to ensure farmers are not wiped out by weather disasters, and protects Americans from sudden spikes in food prices. Farmers pay into crop insurance every year, ensuring they share in the cost of disaster relief. Having an effective crop insurance program in place also reduces the need for Congress to pass ad hoc disaster bills. The Farm Bill expands crop insurance protection for fruit growers who have not traditionally had access to it. The bill provides disaster relief to farmers who did not have access to crop insurance and were hit by weather disaster in recent years (such as Michigan fruit growers who saw crops wiped out by spring freezes in 2012). The bill also creates a permanent livestock disaster assistance program, and retroactively covers producers who were affected by the recent droughts and winter storms on the northern plains this year. Specialty Crops/ Fruits & Vegetables The bipartisan Farm Bill strengthens programs for farmers producing "specialty crops" like cherries, apples, blueberries and asparagus, a significant portion of Michigan's farmers. Along with expanding crop insurance to many fruit and vegetable growers for the first time and providing disaster relief, the Farm Bill also strengthens specialty crop block grants to invest in research and promotion of specialty crops, provides funding to help stop pest and disease threats, helps family farmers sell more goods locally, continues assistance to organic producers, and expands efforts to improve access to healthy foods in urban and low-income communities and in schools. Streamlining Programs, Strengthening Conservation The bipartisan Farm Bill is one of the most important conservation bills passed in years. Conservation is critical for Michigan, the Great Lakes and our way of life. Farmers have an important role to play in protecting our land and water. From preventing fertilizer runoff into waterways to managing fish and wildlife populations on their land, growers and ranchers serve as stewards of the land. The 2014 Farm Bill consolidates 23 existing conservation programs into 13 - while maintaining existing tools to protect and conserve our land, water and wildlife. This approach is supported by nearly 650 conservation organizations from all 50 states. The bill also includes a landmark conservation compliance agreement, which will ensure crop insurance remains strong while conserving millions of acres of vulnerable lands and natural resources that our nation's farmers and ranchers will rely on for generations to come. These reforms increase resources for top priorities, like the new Great Lakes Regional Partnership, while reducing the deficit. Ending Fraud and Misuse in Food Assistance Programs, Protecting Benefits for Families It's critical that every food assistance dollar go to families in need. The bipartisan Farm Bill agreement stops fraud and misuse to achieve savings in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, a.k.a. "food stamps") while maintaining critical assistance for families that need temporary support. The Farm Bill stops lottery winners from continuing to receive assistance (as was seen in high-profile cases in Michigan in recent years), cracks down on benefit trafficking, and closes a loophole being used by some states to artificially inflate benefits for a small number of recipients. The Farm Bill also provides new pilot programs to help people secure employment through job training and other services, giving them the resources necessary to earn a sustainable income. Growing the Agriculture Economy The bipartisan Farm Bill agreement reduces the deficit while strengthening top priorities that help to grow the agriculture economy. The Farm Bill: • Boosts export opportunities to help farmers find new global markets for their goods. • Helps family farmers sell locally, increasing support for farmers' markets and spurring the creation of food hubs to connect farmers to schools and other community-based organizations. • Supports beginning farmers with training and access to capital and creates initiatives to help veterans start agriculture businesses. • Grows American biomanufacturing. • Expands bio-energy production, supporting non-food based, advanced biomass energy production such as cellulosic ethanol and woody biomass power. • Invests in research to promote new agricultural innovations. • Strengthens rural development initiatives to help rural communities upgrade infrastructure and create a better environment for businesses
01.23.2014	Sen. Stabenow Joins Michigan Residents in Traverse City to Call for More Action to Stop Asian Carp Thursday, January 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today joined Michigan residents to call for more action to stop Asian carp during a public meeting hosted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Traverse City. Asian carp pose a serious threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem and the region's $16 billion boating and $7 billion fishing industries. Stabenow, author of the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act, and Great Lakes advocates have said that a recent Army Corps of Engineers report on proposals to stop Asian carp is incomplete and the Corps must continue to work with Congress to more fully develop its proposals so work on projects to stop Asian carp can begin. The Corps is now asking for public comment on its report, and Senator Stabenow is encouraging Michigan residents to weigh-in and make their voices heard. Senator Stabenow said: "Time is running out to stop Asian carp from devastating our Great Lakes and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on them. While the Army Corps' report is a step in the right direction, it is incomplete. The Army Corps needs to fully develop an action plan so work can begin now. We have an opportunity to make sure Michigan's voice is heard in this debate, and I encourage every family to speak up." Earlier in the week, the Army Corps hosted a public meeting in Ann Arbor. For more information on the report, details regarding public meetings, and information on submitting public comment, please visit: http://glmris.anl.gov/glmris-report/ Sen. Stabenow authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act with Congressman Dave Camp, which passed in 2012, to require the Army Corps to expedite the completion of its report on possible strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. The report (known as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study or GLMRIS) had originally been scheduled to be completed in late 2015 or early 2016, but the Stop Invasive Species Act required the Corps' to give Congress fully completed proposals for ways to stop invasive species, including Asian carp, at all known Great Lakes entry points by January 2014. Despite the law requiring the Army Corps to submit a complete report that includes fully developed project plans so work could begin on them, the Army Corps' report only provided conceptual-level details. The Army Corps' report comes in the wake of alarming incidents that illustrate how close Asian carp are to the Great Lakes and how vulnerable the Lakes are to invasion and ecological destruction. In 2013, Asian carp eDNA was discovered in the Wisconsin waters of Lake Michigan and a live carp was caught in Flatfoot Lake near Chicago, located next to the Calumet River, which feeds directly into Lake Michigan. Last month a joint Army Corps and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report showed that fish were moving through the electronic barrier in the Chicago Waterway meant to serve as Lake Michigan's last line of defense against the carp. In 2012, the electronic barriers temporarily malfunctioned, leaving the Great Lakes unprotected from infestation.
01.23.2014	Sen. Stabenow Joins Great Lakes, Conservation Leaders at Cabela’s in Grandville to Call for More Action to Stop Asian Carp Thursday, January 23, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today joined Great Lakes and conservation leaders at Cabela's in Grandville to call for more action to stop Asian carp. These invasive fish pose a serious threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem and the region's $16 billion boating and $7 billion fishing industries. Stabenow, author of the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act, and Great Lakes advocates have said that a recent Army Corps of Engineers report on proposals to stop Asian carp is incomplete and the Corps must continue to work with Congress to more fully develop its proposals so work on projects to stop Asian carp can begin. The Corps is now asking for public comment on its report, and Senator Stabenow is encouraging Michigan residents to weigh-in and make their voices heard. Senator Stabenow said: "Time is running out to stop Asian carp from devastating our Great Lakes and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on them. While the Army Corps' report is a step in the right direction, it is incomplete. The Army Corps needs to fully develop an action plan so work can begin now. We have an opportunity to make sure Michigan's voice is heard in this debate, and I encourage every family to speak up." Erin McDonough, Executive Director of the Michigan United Conservation Clubs said: "Protecting the Great Lakes from Asian carp is one of the most important things we can do as Michiganders. Our Great Lakes, its fisheries and the associated economies are dependent on us winning this war. We appreciate Senator Stabenow's focus on this issue because in this case an ounce of prevention really is worth a pound of cure." Rachel Hood, Executive Director of the West Michigan Environmental Action Council said: "Invasive species like Asian carp are a major threat to the Great Lakes and Grand River Watershed. I applaud Sen. Stabenow for continuing to push for an action plan that will keep Asian carp from harming our ecosystem and West Michigan's economy." Dennis Eade, Executive Director of the Michigan Steelhead and Salmon Fishermen's Association said: "If Asian carp establish populations in the Great Lakes, it will have a devastating impact on native fish populations throughout the State. Every inland lake connected by a river or stream to the Great Lakes would be at risk of being overrun, putting our sport fishery industry at serious risk because of the readily available food source for these ferocious feeders. The Army Corps needs to send Congress a detailed plan to permanently separate the Chicago Area Waterway System from the Great Lakes before it is too late." On Tuesday, Senator Stabenow participated in an Army Corps public meeting in Ann Arbor. The Army Corps is hosting a second meeting in Traverse City on Thursday, January 23 at 4:00 P.M. For more information on the report, details regarding public meetings, and information on submitting public comment, please visit: http://glmris.anl.gov/glmris-report/ Sen. Stabenow authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act with Congressman Dave Camp, which passed in 2012, to require the Army Corps to expedite the completion of its report on possible strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. The report (known as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study or GLMRIS) had originally been scheduled to be completed in late 2015 or early 2016, but the Stop Invasive Species Act required the Corps' to give Congress fully completed proposals for ways to stop invasive species, including Asian carp, at all known Great Lakes entry points by January 2014. Despite the law requiring the Army Corps to submit a complete report that includes fully developed project plans so work could begin on them, the Army Corps' report only provided conceptual-level details. The Army Corps' report comes in the wake of alarming incidents that illustrate how close Asian carp are to the Great Lakes and how vulnerable the Lakes are to invasion and ecological destruction. In 2013, Asian carp eDNA was discovered in the Wisconsin waters of Lake Michigan and a live carp was caught in Flatfoot Lake near Chicago, located next to the Calumet River, which feeds directly into Lake Michigan. Last month a joint Army Corps and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report showed that fish were moving through the electronic barrier in the Chicago Waterway meant to serve as Lake Michigan's last line of defense against the carp. In 2012, the electronic barriers temporarily malfunctioned, leaving the Great Lakes unprotected from infestation.
01.22.2014	In Lansing, Sen. Stabenow Calls for More Action to Stop Asian Carp Wednesday, January 22, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today called for more action to stop Asian carp following a meeting hosted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Lansing. Asian carp pose a serious threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem and the region's $16 billion boating and $7 billion fishing industries. Stabenow, author of the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act, and Great Lakes advocates have said that a recent Army Corps of Engineers report on proposals to stop Asian carp is incomplete and the Corps must continue to work with Congress to more fully develop its proposals so work on projects to stop Asian carp can begin. The Corps is now asking for public comment on its report, and Senator Stabenow is encouraging Michigan residents to weigh-in and make their voices heard. Senator Stabenow said: "Time is running out to stop Asian carp from devastating our Great Lakes and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on them. While the Army Corps' report is a step in the right direction, it is incomplete. The Army Corps needs to fully develop an action plan so work can begin now. We have an opportunity to make sure Michigan's voice is heard in this debate, and I encourage every family to speak up." The Army Corps hosted a public meeting in Ann Arbor on Tuesday and will host a second public meeting in Traverse City on Thursday, January 23 at 4:00 P.M. For more information on the report, details regarding public meetings, and information on submitting public comment, please visit: http://glmris.anl.gov/glmris-report/ Sen. Stabenow authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act with Congressman Dave Camp, which passed in 2012, to require the Army Corps to expedite the completion of its report on possible strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. The report (known as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study or GLMRIS) had originally been scheduled to be completed in late 2015 or early 2016, but the Stop Invasive Species Act required the Corps' to give Congress fully completed proposals for ways to stop invasive species, including Asian carp, at all known Great Lakes entry points by January 2014. Despite the law requiring the Army Corps to submit a complete report that includes fully developed project plans so work could begin on them, the Army Corps' report only provided conceptual-level details. The Army Corps' report comes in the wake of alarming incidents that illustrate how close Asian carp are to the Great Lakes and how vulnerable the Lakes are to invasion and ecological destruction. In 2013, Asian carp eDNA was discovered in the Wisconsin waters of Lake Michigan and a live carp was caught in Flatfoot Lake near Chicago, located next to the Calumet River, which feeds directly into Lake Michigan. Last month a joint Army Corps and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report showed that fish were moving through the electronic barrier in the Chicago Waterway meant to serve as Lake Michigan's last line of defense against the carp. In 2012, the electronic barriers temporarily malfunctioned, leaving the Great Lakes unprotected from infestation.
01.22.2014	Sen. Stabenow Calls for More Action to Stop Asian Carp Wednesday, January 22, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow visited Saginaw and Grandville to call for the action to stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes. These invasive fish pose a serious threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem and the region's $16 billion boating and $7 billion fishing industries. Senator Stabenow also participated in an Army Corps public meeting in Ann Arbor. The Army Corps is hosting a second meeting in Traverse City on Thursday, January 23 at 4:00 P.M. For more information on the report, details regarding public meetings, and information on submitting public comment, please visit: http://glmris.anl.gov/glmris-report/ Stabenow, author of the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act, and Great Lakes advocates have said that a recent Army Corps of Engineers report on proposals to stop Asian carp is incomplete and the Corps must continue to work with Congress to more fully develop its proposals so work on projects to stop Asian carp can begin. The Corps is now asking for public comment on its report, and Senator Stabenow is encouraging Michigan residents to weigh-in and make their voices heard. Senator Stabenow said: "Time is running out to stop Asian carp from devastating our Great Lakes and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on them. While the Army Corps' report is a step in the right direction, it is incomplete. The Army Corps needs to fully develop an action plan so work can begin now. We have an opportunity to make sure Michigan's voice is heard in this debate, and I encourage every family to speak up." Michael Kelly, Great Lakes Director of the Conservation Fund and Coordinator for the Saginaw Bay Watershed Initiative Network, who particapted in the Saginaw press conference, said: "The introduction of Asian carp and other species of non-native fish would absolutely devastate the Saginaw Bay ecosystem, hurting outdoor recreation and tourism in the region. I want to thank Senator Stabenow for advocating on behalf of Michigan families and businesses on this important issue." Greg Gumbrecht, Chapter President of the Flint River Valley Steelheaders, who particapted in the Saginaw press conference, said: "If Asian carp establish populations in the Great Lakes, Michigan's sport fishing industry would be devastated. The Army Corps needs to send Congress a detailed plan to permanently separate the Chicago Area Waterway System from the Great Lakes before it is too late." Sen. Stabenow authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act with Congressman Dave Camp, which passed in 2012, to require the Army Corps to expedite the completion of its report on possible strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. The report (known as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study or GLMRIS) had originally been scheduled to be completed in late 2015 or early 2016, but the Stop Invasive Species Act required the Corps' to give Congress fully completed proposals for ways to stop invasive species, including Asian carp, at all known Great Lakes entry points by January 2014. Despite the law requiring the Army Corps to submit a complete report that includes fully developed project plans so work could begin on them, the Army Corps' report only provided conceptual-level details. The Army Corps' report comes in the wake of alarming incidents that illustrate how close Asian carp are to the Great Lakes and how vulnerable the Lakes are to invasion and ecological destruction. In 2013, Asian carp eDNA was discovered in the Wisconsin waters of Lake Michigan and a live carp was caught in Flatfoot Lake near Chicago, located next to the Calumet River, which feeds directly into Lake Michigan. Last month a joint Army Corps and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report showed that fish were moving through the electronic barrier in the Chicago Waterway meant to serve as Lake Michigan's last line of defense against the carp. In 2012, the electronic barriers temporarily malfunctioned, leaving the Great Lakes unprotected from infestation. ###
01.21.2014	Sen. Stabenow Joins Michigan Residents in Ann Arbor to Call for More Action to Stop Asian Carp Tuesday, January 21, 2014 Senator Debbie Stabenow today joined Michigan residents to call for more action to stop Asian carp during a public meeting hosted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Ann Arbor. Asian carp pose a serious threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem and the region's $16 billion boating and $7 billion fishing industries. Stabenow, author of the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act, and Great Lakes advocates have said that a recent Army Corps of Engineers report on proposals to stop Asian carp is incomplete and the Corps must continue to work with Congress to more fully develop its proposals so work on projects to stop Asian carp can begin. The Corps is now asking for public comment on its report, and Senator Stabenow is encouraging Michigan residents to weigh-in and make their voices heard. Senator Stabenow said: "Time is running out to stop Asian carp from devastating our Great Lakes and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on them. While the Army Corps' report is a step in the right direction, it is incomplete. The Army Corps needs to fully develop an action plan so work can begin now. We have an opportunity to make sure Michigan's voice is heard in this debate, and I encourage every family to speak up." The Army Corps is hosting a second public meeting in Traverse City on Thursday, January 23 at 4:00 P.M. For more information on the report, details regarding public meetings, and information on submitting public comment, please visit: http://glmris.anl.gov/glmris-report/ Sen. Stabenow authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act with Congressman Dave Camp, which passed in 2012, to require the Army Corps to expedite the completion of its report on possible strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. The report (known as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study or GLMRIS) had originally been scheduled to be completed in late 2015 or early 2016, but the Stop Invasive Species Act required the Corps' to give Congress fully completed proposals for ways to stop invasive species, including Asian carp, at all known Great Lakes entry points by January 2014. Despite the law requiring the Army Corps to submit a complete report that includes fully developed project plans so work could begin on them, the Army Corps' report only provided conceptual-level details. The Army Corps' report comes in the wake of alarming incidents that illustrate how close Asian carp are to the Great Lakes and how vulnerable the Lakes are to invasion and ecological destruction. In 2013, Asian carp eDNA was discovered in the Wisconsin waters of Lake Michigan and a live carp was caught in Flatfoot Lake near Chicago, located next to the Calumet River, which feeds directly into Lake Michigan. Last month a joint Army Corps and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report showed that fish were moving through the electronic barrier in the Chicago Waterway meant to serve as Lake Michigan's last line of defense against the carp. In 2012, the electronic barriers temporarily malfunctioned, leaving the Great Lakes unprotected from infestation. ###
01.16.2014	Senator Stabenow Applauds Selection of Kalamazoo and Alma Colleges for National Higher Education Program Thursday, January 16, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today applauded the selection of Kalamazoo College and Alma College for participation in a national higher education program to help increase access to college for low-income students. The national announcement by the President and First Lady today is part of a broad national initiative to help low-income and first-generation students attend and graduate from college. "Today's announcement by the President and First Lady is fantastic news for Michigan," Stabenow said. "Kalamazoo College and Alma College were selected because they are already leading with great programs that help students get to college and graduate. In today's global economy, it is more critical than ever that people can get the skills they need to succeed. Every American who wants to work hard and attend college should have the opportunity to do so, and these two great Michigan schools are helping ensure that's the case." Kalamazoo College's participation in the new program will include working to increase enrollment of students from community colleges and improving the four-year graduation rate among first-generation college students. In addition to working more closely with community colleges to increase transfer rates, Kalamazoo College will work to ensure there are no significant differences in the graduation rates of first-generation and Pell-eligible students when compared to other student groups. This builds on Kalamazoo College's existing efforts to support first-generation college students, including student and family welcome events, skill/competence building, and connection with other successful first-generation students. Kalamazoo College also currently has a program that helps students cover the costs associated with unpaid internships that can provide valuable learning and networking opportunities. Alma College's participation will include developing campus communities for low-income students and admitting between five and ten additional students from the Detroit Edison Public School Academy for the 2014-15 school year. These students will meet twice weekly for study groups and will meet for a week before the term starts to participate in workshops designed to address issues commonly encountered by low-income students. This builds on Alma's Opportunities and Connections program, which is part of the state-wide King-Chaves-Parks program, which provides support for low-income students to attend college and earn their degrees. Alma is the first, and only, small liberal arts school that is part of the Kings-Chaves-Parks program.
01.15.2014	Ypsilanti City Fire Department Receives Support to Hire Firefighters Wednesday, January 15, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced a federal grant to help Ypsilanti City Fire Department hire more firefighters. The fire department will receive $800,505 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide critical, courageous service to communities like Ypsilanti," said Stabenow. "This grant will help the Ypsilanti Fire Department hire more first responders to protect the public." "Firefighters stand ready every day to respond to fires and other emergencies," Levin said. "This grant will help Ypsilanti City Fire Department hire more first responders so they can continue their vital mission of protecting lives and property in their community." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, a competitive grant process to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the frontline firefighters they need to protect their communities.
01.14.2014	Republicans Block Senate Vote on Unemployment Insurance Tuesday, January 14, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow made the following statement today after Republicans blocked a Senate vote on extension of emergency unemployment insurance. While a majority of senators voted in favor of the legislation (55-45), it was blocked by a Republican filibuster. Senator Stabenow said: "While the economy continues to improve, unemployment is still far too high and there are still three people looking for work for every one job available. This support is the last lifeline for those out of work through no fault of their own. It is critical so they can put food on the table, keep the heat on and keep a roof over their heads while they look for a job. I am deeply disappointed that my Republican colleagues would block this important support."
01.14.2014	2014 Appropriations Bill Contains Funding for MSU’s FRIB Tuesday, January 14, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin announced the new appropriations bill released today will include their full request for funding for Michigan State University's Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB) project. Should the appropriations bill pass, it will provide $55 million for FRIB and authorize construction to begin this year. The bill could be voted on as early as next week. "The research that will be done at this state-of-the-art MSU facility is critical to Michigan and the entire country, and will create thousands of jobs in our state," Stabenow said. "When this bill passes, Michigan State will finally be able to start work on this project in the next few months." "FRIB is essential to America's continued leadership in nuclear science," said Levin. "It's a powerful statement about Michigan's role in maintaining that leadership. And it's a major economic boost for our state. FRIB funding in this legislation is a key milestone in turning FRIB's promise into reality and strengthening Michigan's role in advanced science." "We are incredibly excited that full funding for FRIB was included in the omnibus bill," said MSU President Lou Anna Simon. "This is a Rose Bowl-like win which enables MSU to initiate the construction of FRIB and moves us closer to realizing the full benefits of this project for science, for the people of Michigan and for the Nation. We want to express our deep gratitude to the Michigan delegation who worked tirelessly to ensure our victory, especially Senators Stabenow and Levin, and Congressmen Rogers, Camp and Upton. We are also grateful for our strong partnership with the Department of Energy Office of Science. FRIB is a transformative project that will ensure MSU and the Nation continues to lead the world in nuclear physics." Michigan State's FRIB project will pursue scientific breakthroughs by creating and studying elements that do not normally occur naturally on Earth. Studying these extraordinarily rare materials, which often exist for only a fraction of a second, can help advance scientific research in many fields, including using isotopes to improve medical imaging and the treatment of cancer. FRIB will generate an estimated $1 billion in economic activity for Michigan during the project's first decade, creating thousands of jobs during construction and hundreds of high-paying permanent jobs. FRIB will cement Michigan State University's status as one of the world's premier centers for nuclear science. The facility will use the latest scientific equipment to create isotopes - variants of natural chemical elements with minutely different atomic structures than their more common chemical siblings. FRIB will create rare isotopes by accelerating atoms of naturally occurring elements to about half the speed of light and crashing them into a thin target material.
01.13.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement on Passing of Connie Binsfeld, Former Lieutenant Governor of Michigan Monday, January 13, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement today on the passing of former Michigan Lieutenant Governor Connie Binsfeld: "Connie was an inspiration for women across Michigan, breaking down barriers and fighting for important causes. She was a champion for children's and women's issues and worked tirelessly to pass laws against domestic violence and child abuse. I am proud to have served with her when I was in the State legislature. My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends."
01.13.2014	Senator Stabenow Tours Big Three Exhibits at 25th Annual Auto Show Monday, January 13, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, toured vehicle exhibits for Chrysler, Ford, and GM and attended the 2014 North American Car and Truck of the Year Awards. During the press preview, Sen. Stabenow discussed how the auto industry and U.S. manufacturing are driving Michigan's and the nation's economic recovery. Sen. Stabenow championed the rescue of the domestic auto industry and has authored legislation to boost American manufacturing by ending tax loopholes for companies that ship jobs overseas, cutting taxes for businesses that create jobs in America, and training workers with new cutting-edge skills. Senator Stabenow said: "Manufacturing is the backbone of our middle class and our economy and that is on full display here at the North American International Auto Show. U.S. manufacturing is growing at its fastest pace in almost a year, fueled in large part by the continued resurgence of our American auto industry, which is creating thousands of Michigan jobs. That's why we need national policies that help our manufacturers and workers continue to succeed in the global economy." The auto industry has been a driving force in the continuing economic comeback. Vehicle purchases by consumers accounted for roughly 30 percent of all economic output in the first half of 2012. Since 2009, the "Big Three" have invested or announced investments totaling over $8 billion in Michigan. The automotive industry employs more than 8 million workers and since mid-2009 the auto industry has added 372,600 jobs. It is estimated that the auto industry accounts for 3-3.5% of the country's economic output. Senator Stabenow is the author of the Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit (48C) that helps manufacturers invest in clean energy technologies and create cutting-edge jobs. Last month, Ford and GM received Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credits to expand production capabilities and create jobs in Michigan. Ford received a $30 million tax credit to expand production capabilities at its Michigan Assembly Plant in Wayne, which has transitioned from full-size truck and SUV production to a facility to manufacture multiple electric vehicle lines. GM received a credit worth more than $20 million to further expand production capabilities at its Detroit-Hamtramck Assembly Plant where the Chevrolet Volt and Cadillac ELR are manufactured.
01.09.2014	Senator Stabenow Statement on Announcement that Affordable Care Act will Provide Women Access to Breast Cancer Prevention Medication Thursday, January 09, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today made the following statement regarding the announcement that under the Affordable Care Act, most health insurance plans will soon provide women at a high risk of developing breast cancer with free access to prescription drugs that help prevent the disease: "This announcement again shows how the Affordable Care Act is benefitting women in Michigan and across the country. Women can no longer be charged more just for being women, and nearly one million women in Michigan have already gained access to critical preventive services like mammograms and cervical cancer screenings without co-pays. Now, women across the country at high risk for breast cancer will soon get medicine to help prevent the disease without a copay or deductible. Today's announcement is another example of the Affordable Care Act doing what it was meant to do-saving money and saving lives." The Affordable Care Act requires most health plans-whether employer-provided, individual market, or ACA marketplace plans-to provide certain preventive services at no cost to patients. Providing preventive services helps keep patients healthy, saves lives, and brings down long-term health costs, as preventive services are far less expensive than treating serious diseases. Today's U.S. Preventive Services Task Force announcement means that breast cancer prevention medication will be added to the list of preventive services most insurance plans must provide. This requirement will take effect for plans beginning in September 2014.
01.08.2014	Stabenow, Levin Announce Grants for Romulus and Plymouth Fire Departments to Hire Firefighters Wednesday, January 08, 2014 Michigan Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today announced two federal grants to help Romulus Fire Department and Plymouth Community Fire Department hire more firefighters. The fire departments in Romulus and Plymouth will receive $729,465 and $1,331,694 respectively from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security. "Across Michigan, our firefighters provide critical, courageous service to communities like Romulus and Plymouth," said Stabenow. "This grant will help the Romulus and Plymouth Fire Departments hire more first responders to protect the public." "It is vital that we maintain the fire protection and emergency medical services our citizens need," Levin said. "These grants to the fire departments in Romulus and Plymouth will help them hire more first responders to protect their communities when an emergency strikes." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program allows fire departments across the country to compete for federal grant money in several categories. The award announced today is from the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, a competitive grant process to help ensure that fire departments nationwide have the frontline firefighters they need to protect their communities.
01.08.2014	Bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus Co-Chairs Debbie Stabenow and Lindsey Graham Continue to Press Administration to Address Currency Manipulation in TPP Wednesday, January 08, 2014 U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, continued to press for answers from the administration on whether foreign currency manipulation will be addressed in ongoing Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement talks. In a letter to President Obama, Sens. Stabenow and Graham reiterated concerns that the most recent round of negotiations did not even touch on currency manipulation, despite the fact that bipartisan majorities in both Houses of Congress support such an agreement and have repeatedly urged the administration to take action. In September, Sens. Stabenow and Graham led 60 of their Senate colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter urging Treasury Secretary Lew and U.S. Trade Representative Froman to address foreign currency manipulation in the TPP and all future trade agreements. A bipartisan majority of House Members also sent a similar letter. Despite the overwhelming support for acting on currency manipulation from broad majorities in both chambers of Congress, neither Secretary Lew nor Trade Representative Froman has responded to those bipartisan letters. In a new letter to President Obama today, Stabenow and Graham wrote: "Thus far, United States trade negotiators have failed to propose currency disciplines in any TPP negotiating rounds, and our written concerns have gone unanswered. As you know, Congress ratifies free trade agreements, and we expect our concerns to be addressed in a strong and effective manner. On behalf of the 290 Members of Congress who expect foreign currency manipulation to be addressed in our trade agreements, please update us on what is being done to address our concerns." The full text of their letter is below: President Barack ObamaThe White House 1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Following the conclusion of another round of Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations, we write to reiterate our serious concern that strong and enforceable currency disciplines have not yet been addressed in the ongoing negotiations and may not be included in the final agreement. A well-negotiated TPP has the potential to help American businesses and workers, but an agreement that fails to address foreign currency manipulation could further harm the United States economy by leading to a permanent unfair trade relationship. Our concern regarding the impact of foreign currency manipulation on America's workers and our economy is not new and is shared by the vast majority of our colleagues. In June, 230 Members of the House of Representatives wrote to you and said "it is imperative that the agreement address currency manipulation." Then, in September, 60 Senators sent a similar letter to Secretary Lew and Ambassador Froman asking that TPP and all future trade agreements "include strong and enforceable foreign currency manipulation disciplines to ensure that these agreements meet the ‘high standards' our country, America's companies, and America's workers deserve." Thus far, United States trade negotiators have failed to propose currency disciplines in any TPP negotiating rounds, and our written concerns have gone unanswered. As you know, Congress ratifies free trade agreements, and we expect our concerns to be addressed in a strong and effective manner. On behalf of the 290 Members of Congress who expect foreign currency manipulation to be addressed in our trade agreements, please update us on what is being done to address our concerns. As we stated before, we agree with your goal that TPP should achieve "high standards worthy of a 21st century trade agreement." However, we cannot conclude a truly ambitious trade agreement without the inclusion of strong and enforceable currency provisions. We believe the Administration has had adequate time not only for internal deliberations about such provisions, but also to negotiate them with our trading partners. Likewise, there exists significant Congressional support for including currency manipulation provisions in TPP. We look forward to working with you to meaningfully address currency manipulation and to make TPP a truly 21st century trade agreement.
01.08.2014	Chairwoman Stabenow Announces Initiative to Boost Michigan Agriculture, Help Families in Need Wednesday, January 08, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today announced action to help boost Michigan agriculture and help families in need. The Emergency Food Assistance Program of the U.S. Department of Agriculture will supply Michigan apples, cherries and other fruits and vegetables to help food pantries and other community hunger organizations meet demand. "Our food banks have been stretched very thin during the economic downturn, and while the economy is getting better, there is still a strong need out there to help Michigan families," said Stabenow. "Michigan growers have been requesting participation in this program, and I'm pleased this initiative will be purchasing Michigan products." The Emergency Food Assistance Program provides high-quality, domestically produced food to low-income families. The program also helps USDA purchase foods to stabilize prices in agriculture commodity markets by balancing supply and demand while supplying healthy food to those in need. Michigan apple and other produce growers requested USDA purchase their crops for use in the program.
01.07.2014	Senator Debbie Stabenow Announces New Chief of Staff Tuesday, January 07, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today announced that she has named longtime adviser Bill Sweeney as her new Chief of Staff. Sweeney, a Michigan native, has been with Stabenow since 1999, when he served on Stabenow's finance team during her successful first run for the U.S. Senate. In his more than 14 years with Stabenow, Sweeney has served in a number of positions in her office including Speechwriter, Senior Communications Advisor, and Deputy Chief of Staff. Bill Sweeney is from Wayne, Michigan and received his B.A. in Political Science and Public Service from Albion College. Sweeney worked on several campaigns including municipal, congressional and statewide campaigns before joining Stabenow's campaign in 1999.
01.07.2014	Senator Stabenow Applauds Senate Vote to Move Forward on Extending Unemployment Insurance Tuesday, January 07, 2014 U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow today voted with a bipartisan group of Senators to move forward on legislation that would extend emergency unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who are looking for work. Unemployment insurance for more than 43,000 people in Michigan expired on Dec. 28 after Republicans blocked an effort to extend the program into 2014. An additional 86,500 people in Michigan will lose their coverage in the first six months of 2014 if Congress doesn't act. "Extending this temporary assistance for people out of work is critical so they can put food on the table, keep the heat on during brutally cold temperatures and keep a roof over their head while they look for a job," said Stabenow. "This emergency support has always been approved on a bipartisan basis during past downturns and I'm glad several Republicans joined Democrats in approving this today. This is a critical lifeline for families out of work through no fault of their own." Extended unemployment insurance has historically been passed on a bipartisan basis during economic downturns to help families struggling with unemployment and to help bolster the economy. Emergency unemployment insurance was passed in the heart of the recent downturn in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as unemployment has remained above average. While the economy has been recovering over the past several years, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began and there are still three unemployed people looking for work for every one job available. When President Bush first signed extended unemployment benefits in 2008, the national unemployment rate was 5.6%, and is currently 7%, while the Michigan rate is 8.8%. The legislation that moved forward today would provide a three-month benefit extension, retroactive to Dec. 28, 2013. Economists agree that extended unemployment insurance provides a boost to the economy. Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would hurt job growth throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. The CEA estimates that in Michigan alone, failing to extend the program will cost 8,450 jobs.
01.06.2014	Senator Stabenow, Representative Camp, Great Lakes Advocates Say More Action Needed Following Release of Asian Carp Report Asian Carp Threaten $16 Billion Boating, $7 Billion Fishing Industries Monday, January 06, 2014 Following the release of a new report on ways to stop Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow and Congressman Dave Camp today joined with Great Lakes experts and advocates to urge that more action be taken to stop the invasive fish that could wreak havoc on the Great Lakes' ecosystem. Stabenow and Camp authored the bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act that passed in 2012 to require today's Army Corps of Engineers report to be completed two years earlier than previously scheduled. Unfortunately, the Army Corps' proposals for projects that could stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes are not yet developed enough to allow work on those projects to begin. Stabenow and Camp called on the Army Corps to work with Congress to deliver concrete project recommendations that Congress can approve so work to stop the carp can begin as soon as possible. "We need work to begin on projects to permanently prevent Asian carp from destroying the Great Lakes, and we need it to begin now," said Stabenow. "While this report is a step in the right direction, it's time to move past reports and get moving on actual projects that will stop Asian carp. The Army Corps must fully develop its proposals and continue working with Congress so that action can be taken to protect the Great Lakes and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on them." "While the report released today focused on a number of options to protect the Great Lakes, it failed to fully develop a permanent solution to prevent Asian carp form destroying the Great Lakes," said Camp. "I am concerned many of the Corps' proposed options rely on undeveloped technology and do not adequately account for the region's transportation needs. More work is needed to completely develop a serious plan to protect the Great Lakes and the jobs and economy they support." In 2012, President Obama signed Stabenow and Camp's bipartisan Stop Invasive Species Act, requiring the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the completion of today's report on possible strategies to permanently prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. The report (known as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study or GLMRIS) had originally been scheduled to be completed in late 2015 or early 2016, but the Stop Invasive Species Act required the Corps' to give Congress fully completed proposals for ways to stop invasive species, including Asian carp, at all known Great Lakes entry points by January 2014. Despite the law requiring the Army Corps to submit a complete report that includes fully developed project plans so work could begin on them, the Army Corps' report only provided conceptual-level details. Today's report comes in the wake of alarming incidents that illustrate how close Asian carp are to the Great Lakes and how vulnerable the Lakes are to invasion and ecological destruction. In 2013, Asian carp eDNA was discovered in the Wisconsin waters of Lake Michigan and a live carp was caught in Flatfoot Lake near Chicago, located next to the Calumet River, which feeds directly into Lake Michigan. Last month a joint Army Corps and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report showed that fish were moving through the electronic barrier in the Chicago Waterway meant to serve as Lake Michigan's last line of defense against the carp. In 2012, the electronic barriers went down temporarily, leaving the Great Lakes unprotected from infestation. ###
