01.23.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) made the following statement about today’s announcement on the West Shore Hurricane Protection Project: “In 2016 we passed congressional authorization for the 42-year overdue, much needed, highly anticipated West Shore Hurricane Protection Project. In 2018 we secured $760 million to complete the project in 5 years or less. Today’s commitment by the state, Pontchartrain Levee District, St. John the Baptist Parish, and St. James Parish to purchase the property needed to construct the levee means this project is truly underway. People in the River Parishes are finally going to get the flood protection they deserve. The train, as the saying goes, is leaving the station. Today’s funding is 6% of the overall project, but it is a critical first step. The plan also positions the state to take a similar, aggressive, positive step on another critical flood project in the Amite River Basin. We secured $255 million for the East Baton Rouge Parish Flood Control Project – not to be confused with the nearly $400 million Comite River Diversion Canal – which will improve drainage among five major East Baton Rouge watersheds. Today’s move means the state can take a similar bold step by converting state funds previously earmarked for an Amite Basin flood project for another Amite Basin flood project, while achieving an approximately $8 million savings in the process. Kudeauxs! We commend the State, Pontchartrain Levee District, St. John the Baptist Parish, St. James Parish, and St. Charles Parish for their leadership in leveraging state funds to advance the West Shore Project, and for the State’s leadership in potentially leveraging another critical flood project in the Amite River Basin.” The West Shore Hurricane Protection Project languished for more than four decades until Congressman Graves reinitiated progress: achieving project authorization with 2016 legislation and securing funding for it in 2018 as part of one of the largest flood protection investments in Louisiana history -- nearly $3 billion in federal funding for priority flood and hurricane protection projects across south Louisiana. ###
01.17.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) was named Ranking Member for the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Aviation for the 116th Congress. “The world population is approaching eight billion people and global trade is soaring,” said Rep. Garret Graves. “We need modern infrastructure and an air transportation system that reflects this growth and change. We are not there yet. I am excited about the opportunity to be on the front lines helping to modernize our technology and aviation system from the one we have to the one we deserve.” Graves served as Chairman of the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee in the 115th Congress and was instrumental in the development and passage of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act. He also worked closely with other Committee leaders on the Disaster Recovery Reform Act to improve Federal Emergency Management Agency programs and strengthen U.S. communities’ ability to become more resilient to disaster. Graves continued: “When you step back and consider what Louisiana has – the Mississippi River system, the lion’s share of top ports in the U.S., six Class 1 railroads, our massive network of pipelines, our airports, roads and interstates – we are an infrastructure gold mine. As population grows and the globe continues to shrink, so to speak, all of these intersecting modes of transportation are important. Taking on this new role is an opportunity to build on our record of accomplishment, expand our influence and help position Louisiana for the future. Chairing the Water Subcommittee last Congress allowed us to advance Louisiana’s and national priorities on rivers, levees, reforming the Corps of Engineers and coastal issues – and we are not backing off of those at all. We advocated on behalf Congressman Westerman (R-AR) taking over as Ranking Member of Water Resources and look forward to continuing to serve with him on that subcommittee as one of the principal Members involved in making policy and progress there. We are excited to get to work in this new role on the Aviation Subcommittee. As trade continues to surge, you’re also seeing impatience surge – which means the role of aviation in trade will continue to expand in influence and importance. This assignment gives us the ability to dig in on the policy issues to help improve the customer experience, to pursue additional growth and modernizing for our airports and aviation system in Louisiana, and to ensure our economy is ready.” “Garret is an experienced, hard-working Member of Congress who knows the Committee’s issues and knows how to get things done,” House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Sam Graves (R-MO) added. “He is the type of leader the Committee will need as we work together in the coming weeks and months on an infrastructure package and other priorities that address the needs of America’s infrastructure and make our transportation network stronger, safer, and more efficient.” ###
01.16.2019	Washington, DC – Congressmen Garret Graves (South Louisiana) and Cedric Richmond continue to stand up for Louisiana flood victims in the nation’s capital, successfully inserting two recovery-oriented amendments into a disaster aid package being considered in the U.S. House of Representatives today. The first amendment requires the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to waive a ban on duplicate assistance for grantees – authority now specified in federal law thanks to an enacted bill Graves wrote last year that fixed duplication of benefits. As introduced, this aid package included provisions that would have reinstituted duplication of benefits policy restrictions on some disaster victims. “Three times last Congress, the House passed our fix to the flawed duplication of benefits policy before it was signed into law by the president. This amendment ensures compliance with the new law for this disaster relief package and reinforces our ongoing commitment to flood victims. We are not going to let this issue rest until victims get the help they deserve,” said Graves. The second amendment allows remaining Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery funds to be used to construct Corps of Engineers projects after disaster victims are provided assistance. The underlying bill prohibited the use of these recovery funds for Corps flood and hurricane protection projects but allowed virtually any other flood or hurricane protection project. Graves continued: “The Corps has the most thorough, expensive and detailed project review process known to man. Why in the world would you prohibit recovery funds from being spent on projects that have made it through this painful review yet allow un-reviewed projects to be constructed? Our amendment fixes this discrepancy.” Click below to watch a video of Graves explain the amendments before the House Rules Committee yesterday. Video of Garret Graves | Rules Committee Jan 16 2019 ###
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) and Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett (U.S. Virgin Islands) introduced new disaster relief legislation in the House of Representatives this week to help impacted states and communities recover faster, better and at lower costs to taxpayers. H.R. 7322 is a bipartisan solution for the costly and bureaucratic delays in the current system, and it ensures federal resources get to disaster areas quickly and with the flexibility states need to use them effectively. “There is no question that programs like Restore Louisiana, Road Home and others take too long and waste too much money paying contractors and administrators. When disaster strikes, disruptive changes happen to people fast – the federal response needs to match the urgency that victims feel after having their lives turned upside down,” said Graves. “This bill starts to fix the slow, unnecessary federal processes that often to re-victimize people and jeopardize recovery for entire communities.” “I'm grateful to work across the aisle with my colleague Garret Graves toward solutions for families and communities in need after disaster strikes,” said Plaskett. “After the experiences of Hurricanes Irma and Maria, the Virgin Islands and the other disaster-impacted areas need the support of the federal government as quickly as possible to rebuild lives, businesses, and communities. This bill cuts out some of the unnecessary federal process that, while well intentioned, burdens communities who have just been destroyed by disaster, while giving states and territories flexibility in spending, without taking away oversight of taxpayer dollars.” H.R. 7322 fundamentally changes the way federally-funded disaster recovery programs such as Restore Louisiana and Road Home function. Under the bill, long-term disaster recovery funding is predictable and available within weeks of a disaster. Current practices result in months or even years before long-term disaster recovery funding is certain. As FEMA Administrator Brock Long recently testified before Congress, the agency has long-advocated for more block grant authority to give states more discretion to administer housing and other relief using common sense and available resources. H.R. 7322 would help make that happen, reducing waste and redundancy in providing post-disaster housing so that victims can get back in their homes more quickly. Three decades have passed since the Stafford Act first established a federal framework for disaster response. While every disaster is unique, it is clear that the current system does not serve states and communities well. Ensuring that each affected community has predictability of funding levels and an understanding of when those funds will be received is critical to immediate and long term recovery plans. The Graves bill combines the flexibility states need with the accountability Americans deserve to deliver better coordination of federal, state and local efforts. Under the Graves bill, recovery can get started without wasting time and limited resources. For far too long, taxpayers have footed the bill for the cost of inaction and communities have suffered from these unnecessary delays. “Bottom line is that we need to get recovery funds into the hands of disaster victims as soon as possible. Spending hundreds of millions on temporary housing while waiting on long-term funding is a waste of taxpayer dollars and delays recovery of our communities. The current system is a proven failure. Our bill is a needed course correction,” added Graves. ###
12.19.2018	Graves-Wicker Landmark Fisheries Reform Bill Headed to White House Washington, DC— The Modernizing Recreational Fisheries Management Act of 2018 (Modern Fish Act) passed the U.S. House of Representatives today with a 350-11 vote. This landmark legislation addresses the challenges faced by recreational anglers in the current federal fisheries management system and brings a balance of management between the recreational and commercial fishing sectors. The bill is now headed to the President’s desk. Earlier this week the U.S. Senate unanimously passed their version of the bill, S.1520. “For the first time, the Modern Fish Act will recognize in federal law that recreational fishing and commercial fishing are fundamentally different activities that should be managed differently to fit the characteristics of each sector” said Graves. “This landmark legislation will finally give fisheries managers the appropriate tools to better understand the condition of our marine fisheries, which is great news for anglers, for conservation and for red snapper, cobia and red grouper and the many different fish species gulf anglers enjoy catching.” The Modern Fish Act addresses many of the recreational fishing community’s priorities including allowing alternative management techniques for recreational fishing, examining how best to review fisheries allocations, and improving recreational data collection. The bill aims to benefit fishing access and conservation by incorporating modern management approaches, science and technology to guide decision-making. On July 11, 2018, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Modern Fish Act (H.R. 2023) as part of H.R. 200, a more comprehensive measure that would have reauthorized the primary law governing marine fisheries. That bill included several Graves provisions that benefit saltwater fishermen and women, including his Modern Fish Act. Differences between H.R. 200 and S.1520 required that the full House take a vote on S.1520 before sending it to the White House. Graves is the lead author of the House version; Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) is lead author of the Senate versions. Graves thanked Sen. Wicker and his staff for their work passing the measure in the upper chamber. ###
12.07.2018	Graves Announces 2018 Congressional App Challenge Winners Baton Rouge, LA — This week, Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) announced winners the 2018 Congressional App Challenge for Louisiana’s Sixth Congressional District. Graves and 221 other Members of Congress inspired students to pursue computer science in the fourth annual competition, the largest student computer science competition in America. Over the last four months, thousands of students coded original apps as part of district-wide competitions. Mack Kemper and Christian Thompson of Catholic High School earned first place for creating Unite SMS: an app intended to improve school communication between administrators, parents, students and teachers. “Our app’s goal is to make an easy to use communication system for schools that creates two way communication and accountability and also can be used for emergency situations,” said Kemper. Brian Tsai, a senior from Baton Rouge High, came in second place with Urban Crisis, an app that consolidates and displays important information for use during an emergency. “The reality is that our entire lives are wrapped up in our smartphones and their capabilities. It is in incredible how these students can actually use these opportunities to use data and design apps to make communities safer and improve communications,” said Graves. Third place went to Jeremy Worley and Mateo Rosas from Catholic High School for their Spend to Save app. Co-Honorable Mention went to Tre, Ross and JP from the Dunham School (app: Dunham Wellness) and Josh Harold and Jefferson Koonce from Catholic High School (app: Safe Pass). On Monday, Graves visited Catholic High and Baton Rouge High to recognize the winners and participants from both schools. This was the second year Graves hosted the Congressional App Challenge for Sixth District students, and his office received over 20 submissions from schools in East Baton Rouge, Ascension and West Baton Rouge parishes. “Technology is increasingly integrated into everything that happens in our district, state and country, and competitions like these are important for the future,” said Graves. A panel of six judges selected this year’s winners: Kristen Reeves, Executive Director of Louisiana Women in Technology Joshua Duplechain, Director of Communications, LSU College of Engineering Nathan Cotton, Past President of Louisiana Science Teacher Association Charlie D’Agastino, Executive Director of LSU Innovation Park Beth O’Quinn, Talent Manager, Louisiana Client Innovation Center at IBM Corporation Dr. Vernon Dunn, Program Manager at the Louisiana Board of Regents. The Congressional App Challenge aims to engage students in coding and computer science. All of the competitions are local and span 46 states and U.S. territories — in rural and urban districts alike. Congressional participation reached new horizons this year, including districts in Hawaii, Puerto Rico and Wyoming. Participating Members came from both sides of the aisle in near equal numbers, a testament to the bipartisan support for computer science and STEM in Congress. The list of all 2018 national winners can be found here.
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Landmark legislation produced under the leadership of House Water Resources Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) to reform the U.S. Corps of Engineers will be signed into law this week. The America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, which unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives on September 13, 2018, will be voted on today in the U.S. Senate, and the president is expected to sign the bill into law later this week. This is the first Corps reform bill produced with Graves serving as chairman over the House Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Corps of Engineers, Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies. “On our current trajectory, the Corps will finish its $100 billion of backlogged, federally authorized projects approximately never,” said Graves. “We have to stop pushing paper and start turning dirt. Fundamental changes are needed, and this bill begins moving us in that direction.” The America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (AWIA) is the latest in a portfolio of legislative achievements that Graves has been implementing as part of his broader strategy to replace the federal government’s wasteful spending of billions of dollars after disasters with smart, pre-disaster investments that better prepare and protect our communities at a much lower cost to taxpayers. Other strategy components include the Disaster Reform and Recovery Act, which was signed into law last Friday; full funding for the Comite flood protection, West Shore hurricane protection and other important projects announced in July; and Graves’ bill to increase offshore energy revenue sharing funding that passed through the Natural Resources Committee in September. AIWA paves the way for major reforms of how the nation plans, designs, constructs and funds flood control, hurricane protection, navigation, coastal/ecosystem restoration and other projects. “This bill is about delivering proactive solutions so that communities actually benefit from projects instead of having to endure decades of studies and inaction,” added Graves. AIWA focuses on four major themes: Cutting the red-tape and bureaucracy associated with Corps of Engineers’ projects Preventing redundancies and excessive costs Providing greater project roles to state and local governments Changing the Corps of Engineers focus from process and procedure to project completion Provisions inserted in the House and final bill by Graves include: Providing the State of Louisiana an estimated $500,000,000 in credit for coastal restoration and other projects in the state. This credit can be used by the state in lieu of cash cost shares required by the state. Beginning a process to transition the Corps of Engineers’ mission to a civilian infrastructure agency where it can be a top agency priority. Forcing the Corps to disclose internal costs and expenses. Requiring a reanalysis of the Old River Control Structure in Louisiana to end the static 70% Mississippi River, 30% Atchafalaya River split of flow. Under the new model, the Corps would migrate toward a dynamic operations plan to maximize navigation, flood control, coastal restoration and other objectives. Allowing the state and levee districts to construct authorized Corps projects without re-permitting environmental and other project considerations. Eliminating the requirement that the state and levee districts go through a duplicative regulatory and permitting process when building authorized projects without the Corps of Engineers. Graves continued: “There are literally tens of billions of dollars in authorized Corps of Engineers projects in Louisiana. If we are going to restore our coast and protect our communities, we must change the way these projects are developed and delivered.” Other Louisiana-centric provisions include (provision sponsors): Preventing the purchase of property from private landowners when projects can be constructed using an easement, donation or other less expensive means (Higgins/Graves) Expanding upon opportunities to use material dredged from rivers and bayous for coastal restoration (Higgins/Graves) Expediting Feasibility Studies and Advancing Project Design: J. Bennett Johnston Waterway project improvements (Abraham/Johnson) Northshore flood risk reduction (Scalise/Cassidy/Kennedy) Ouachita-Black Rivers navigation improvements (Abraham/Cassidy/Kennedy) Baptist’s Collette Bayou channel deepening (Scalise/Cassidy/Kennedy) Houma Navigation Canal Deepening (Scalise/Graves/Cassidy/Kennedy) Extend the construction deadline for a hydropower facility on the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway (Abraham/Johnson) “This bill is good for our infrastructure, good for jobs, and good for America,” added Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA). Graves recently secured $3,000,000,000 in new federal funding from five sources to fully fund numerous decades-stalled Corps of Engineers projects in Louisiana. This bill complements those efforts, which will together produce better protection for our homes, communities and businesses; better federal performance; and cost savings to the American people. ###
10.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Garret Graves’ (S. Louisiana) solution to the flawed duplication of benefits policy is set to clear its final legislative hurdle today with the passage of H.R. 302 in the U.S. Senate. It will then head to the White House to be signed into law by President Trump. Graves’ duplication of benefits solution passed the House of Representatives for a third time last week as part of H.R. 302, a legislative package that also contains other Graves-authored provisions to improve Louisiana’s ability to recover from past disasters and be better prepared for future events: a fix that will return the tens of millions of penalty dollars imposed on flooded schools back to those schools to be reinvested in our children’s education; a fix for the shelter at home model and FEMA’s trailer program to ensure that future versions incorporate local capabilities and complement the long-term rebuilding of homes and communities; a fix for the so called “I-12 wall” that will result in better design, construction and repair of critical evacuation routes; and, assistance improvements for disaster survivors with disabilities. H.R. 302 includes a reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 (DRRA), which is a package of federal disaster program improvements that will save lives and reduce the growing cost impacts of disasters of all types. “Today is a great day for South Louisiana and for the entire nation. This is one of the most significant disaster recovery and preparedness bills to pass Congress in decades, and we will be a more resilient country because of it” said Graves. “For two years we fought and fought to fix duplication of benefits for flood victims – passing it through the House three separate times. That persistence has finally paid off, and our flood victims are going to get the relief they deserve. Importantly, this new law will finally enable us to put into practice lessons learned from our August 2016 flood, recent hurricanes and other events across the nation. As we start to take the proactive approach to disasters that this law calls for, American communities will start to be stronger and safer – and American taxpayers will save money. This new law is what the rest of the country would simply call, ‘common sense’.” DRRA includes numerous reforms that Congressman Graves wrote and worked to advance through Congress for nearly two years. Graves’ provisions will improve federal disaster recovery and response and will increase the government’s focus on pre-disaster mitigation – actions taken before disaster strikes that will lessen future impacts, reduce disaster costs, help speed recovery, and prevent loss of life. Major provisions authored by Rep. Graves include: Section 1210 (a) Graves’ duplication of benefits fix – an elimination of the flawed “duplication of benefits” policy that prevents Louisiana flood survivors from gaining access to Restore Louisiana grants. Section 1207 Graves’ solution for flooded schools – fixes a flawed interpretation of current law that has resulted in tens of millions in additional costs to flooded schools, delaying their ability to come back online, teach our students and perform their fundamental role in communities. The Graves amendment imposed a one-penalty-per-facility limit as Congress intended. Section 1212 Graves’ provision to deliver assistance to survivors with disabilities –extends FEMA assistance to repair or replace damaged accessibility features for individuals with disabilities. During the August 2016 flood, Congressman Graves’ office worked closely with the autistic community and Trach Mommas of Louisiana to address their specific disaster needs. This provision addresses a number of problems identified in those efforts. Section 1211 Graves’ solution for MHU’s and temporary housing – allows state and local governments to provide post-disaster, temporary housing at a cost-savings compared to FEMA housing. Current law prohibits FEMA from reimbursing local governments for the cost of providing a housing solution for those who are displaced after a disaster, which caused significant headache for the Livingston Parish Sheriff’s Department and others after the 2016 flood. Reforms also include improving the shelter at home model to ensure that it compliments long-term rebuilding of homes and communities. Section 1209 Graves’ I-12 “Wall” solution – requires FEMA to collaborate with the Federal Highway Administration to develop policy on the design, construction and repair of evacuations routes like I-12 in Baton Rouge and Livingston Parish. Other Graves-written provisions include: Section 1210 (b) Graves’ flood mitigation streamlining – clarifies the flexibility to states and local governments to apply flood mitigation dollars toward federally authorized projects, like the Comite River Diversion Canal. Sections 1234 and 1235 Graves’ program to build back faster and smarter – allows rebuilding and recovery efforts to include resilient construction to help prevent repetitive losses and to prepare for future disasters – ultimately saving taxpayer dollars. This provision provides additional funding to address resilience projects (i.e. flood control, hurricane protection, elevating structures, etc.) before floods and hurricanes strike. This proactive shift will help to complete stalled projects and advance federal-state-local partnerships in preventing disaster losses and the loss of life. Sections 1214 and 1227 Graves’ inclusion of food banks and other long-term recovery groups for public assistance – requires FEMA to more closely collaborate with food banks like the Greater Baton Rouge Area Food Bank, St. Vincent de Paul, and Long-term Recovery Groups like Rebuild Louisiana, Samaritan’s Purse, and others. This provision also makes food banks eligible for FEMA repair assistance. Section 1219 Graves’ arbitration provision for disaster victims – creates a fair and unbiased process for entities to settle claim disputes with FEMA through an independent board experienced with settling such disagreements. FEMA should not be able to determine whether its own denials are justified. Section 1228 Graves’ submerged roads provisions – requires FEMA to work with the Federal Highway Administration to develop a consistent, reliable, reasonable policy to cover damages to our roadways. Section 1240 Graves’ insurance provision – Katrina survivors receiving federal assistance are required to obtain and maintain flood insurance. FEMA requires Louisiana to act as the flood insurance police for those receiving this assistance – a job clearly outside the bounds of state responsibility – or FEMA will penalize the state for failing to enforce. The Graves "proof of insurance" maintains a reasonable insurance requirement while removing the bureaucratic, legacy Katrina mandate. Added at the state’s request, the amendment could save the state nearly $100 million in FEMA reimbursements. Section 1218 Graves’ pets and service animals provision – requires the Department of Homeland Security to engage veterinary schools, like the LSU School of Veterinary Medicine, to develop emergency teams to launch with first responders during disasters. These specialized teams will help to train emergency managers and work to take care of service animals and others affected by disasters. In many cases, we saw animals abandoned in the 2016 floods. Section 1223 Graves’ elimination of duplicative applications – requires FEMA and other agencies to work to implement a streamlined process for disaster victims to provide information one time to a federal agency rather than having to apply multiple times to multiple agencies for disaster assistance. Graves’ FEMA transparency provision – requires FEMA to establish an online system that discloses disaster costs, contracts and other activities to help improve accountability and prevent fraud. Other key provisions to improve disaster policy include: Section 1215 Allows for forgiveness of debts when FEMA inappropriately provides excess assistance to a disaster victim as a result of an error made by FEMA. Section 1217 Provides for the economic recovery of disaster-impacted areas. Section 1220 Authorizes a report to identify ways to streamline environmental and historic preservation approvals during disasters. This new law is the largest package of reforms to FEMA since the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006. Most importantly, flood victims will finally get the relief they deserve. ###
09.26.2018	Video of Graves Fights for Emergency Personnel, Teachers, Public Servants in Tax Reform 2.0 WATCH: Graves Fights for Emergency Personnel, Teachers, Public Servants in Tax Reform 2.0 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) and Illinois Congressman Rodney Davis introduced an amendment to Tax Reform 2.0 today that would put an end to an obscure Social Security law that unfairly reduces benefits for emergency personnel, teachers and other public servants. The legislation would eliminate the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) and the Government Pension Offset (GPO) – two titles of the Social Security Act that decrease or eliminate Social Security benefits for millions of Americans who have devoted much of their careers to public service. “Current policy gets it wrong, and it needs to be fixed,” said Graves. “We shouldn’t penalize police officers, firefighters, emergency medical personnel and other public servants who put their lives on the line for our communities; or teachers, who pour their lives into students in the classroom and who play such an important role to the future of our country. They don’t deserve to have their benefits reduced, and we’ll continue to working until this policy gets changed.” The amendment is the same legislative text as the Graves-sponsored H.R. 1205, the Social Security Fairness Act. That bill has 190 cosponsors and is supported by the Senior Citizens League, National Education Association, National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare, Fraternal Order of Police, National Association of Letter Carriers, International Association of Fire Fighters, and National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association. “I have heard time and time again, from teachers in my district and across the country, how important this legislation is and today, we're bringing this issue into the national spotlight again," said Davis. "For decades, members of Congress, from both parties, have committed to repealing this provision and by offering this amendment today, we will hopefully get one step closer to fix this provision that unfairly punishes public servants in states like Illinois. While this is admittedly a major hurdle, I will never stop trying to move this important legislation forward." Background Information The Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) reduces the earned Social Security benefits of an individual who also receives a public pension from a job not covered by Social Security. For example, educators who do not earn Social Security in the public schools but who work part-time or during the summer in jobs covered by Social Security have reduced benefits even though they pay into the system just like others. The WEP also affects people who move from a job in which they earn Social Security to a job, such as teaching, in which they do not. The WEP substantially reduces benefits workers included and counted on when planning their retirement and it substantially penalizes lower paid public employees. These provisions also discourage qualified, talented individuals from entering into public service professions, hindering efforts to attract new math and science teachers from the private sector unwilling to sacrifice earned Social Security from prior careers. The Government Pension Offset (GPO) affects the spousal benefits of people who work as federal, state, or local government employees—including educators, police officers, and firefighters—if the job is not covered by Social Security. GPO reduces by two-thirds the benefit received by surviving spouses who also collect a government pension. Nine out of 10 public employees affected by the GPO lose their entire spousal benefit, even though their spouse paid Social Security taxes for many years. The WEP and GPO provisions do not eliminate a windfall for workers, they penalize public service employees by taking away benefits they earned throughout their careers. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) advanced legislation out of the House Committee on Natural Resources today that would increase the share of offshore energy revenues for Gulf Coast states. Graves’ bill would provide a substantial increase in funding for Louisiana’s coastal restoration and flood protection projects. “After working on this for 20 years I can tell you: what happened today is historic,” said Graves. “Moving this bill is a big deal and has enormous implications for South Louisiana.” Graves’ H.R. 6771 amends the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act 2006 (GOMESA) to bring Gulf offshore energy revenue sharing in line with levels that onshore energy producing states enjoy – an effort long pursued by Louisiana’s congressional delegation. The bill was considered today in conjunction with the Restore Our Parks and Public Lands Act, which proposed using Gulf offshore energy revenues to address the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service and other agencies across the country. “Louisiana is battling the largest historical, ongoing and prospective loss of coastal wetlands we’ve ever seen, and it’s a national crisis. Diverting Louisiana’s energy revenues away from efforts to improve the resiliency of the people, communities and ecosystems responsible for generating the resources in the first place is a fundamentally flawed approach to addressing the maintenance backlog in national parks,” said Graves. “Our bill ensures that these increased revenues will be committed to projects that restore the coast, protect our coastal communities from hurricanes and other disaster and, ultimately, reduce our nation’s outrageous disaster response costs.” For nearly a century federal law has discriminated against coastal energy producing states. While states producing energy onshore federal lands get to retain 50 percent of the energy revenues, coastal states have received a small fraction. H.R. 6771 solves this problem. Energy production in the Gulf of Mexico accounts for 18% of total U.S. crude oil production and 4% of total U.S. dry production of natural gas. In 2016 alone, this production generated $2.7 billion in royalty revenue for the U.S. Treasury. Of that amount, only 0.407% ($11 million) was given back to those states through revenue sharing programs. Click the image below to watch a clip from today’s markup. View the markup in its entirety here. ###
08.30.2018	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) announced today that the U.S. Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) is awarding $80,699,190 in new federal funding to Louisiana to advance many projects statewide. The important I-10 Interchange at Pecue Lane is among those projects. With clearing and grubbing mostly completed, these new funds will provide for bridge construction and additional right-of-way acquisition to help move the project forward more quickly. “We have worked closely with East Baton Rouge and DOTD on the Pecue project. This new federal funding is another huge step among many to reduce traffic in the Capital Region. The reconfiguration of the Washington Street and Terrace Street exits, widening of I-10 from Highland Road to Prairieville, and the proposed improvements to I-10 from Port Allen to the split are all steps in the right direction, which ultimately must lead us to a new bridge over the Mississippi, among other regional priorities. We appreciate Secretary Shawn Wilson for his efforts to work with us on these priorities,” Graves said. The $80 million in federal funds is in addition to the extra $500 million provided to Louisiana through the federal FAST Act, which has provided $100 million more in federal transportation grant funds that have resulted in the Terrace/Washington street exit reconfiguration and I-10 lane addition (Highland Road to Prairieville/Dutchtown exit). Additional federal financing will lead to I-10 improvements between the Lobdell/LA415 exit and the I-10/I-12 split. ###
07.23.2018	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana), Governor John Bel Edwards, Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development Secretary Shawn Wilson and other state leaders marked the beginning of construction today on a solution to the Capital Region’s traffic bottleneck at the I-10 Washington St. Exit. The “I-110 Interchange Modification Project at Terrace Ave” is designed to eliminate traffic congestion associated the I-10 eastbound Washington Street exit and will provide connectivity from I-110 southbound to surrounding residential neighborhoods. Video of Coming Soon: Traffic Relief for the Capital Region Graves was instrumental in making this traffic-improvement project a reality through his work in Congress to enact the FAST Act in 2015. Through that legislation, Graves negotiated a $500 million increase in federal highway funding for Louisiana and worked to establish the federal grant program Louisiana used to secure funding for the state to be able to commit resources to reconfiguring this section of I-10. In addition to this project, the grant program has resulted in more than $100 million in additional federal transportation funds to Louisiana. “Breaking ground on this project is a game-changer and fundamental to cleaning up the Capital Region traffic mess,” said Graves, “Instead of talking about this decades-old problem, we are taking action to fix it. By laying the groundwork to fix the bottleneck, the stage is being set for a new Mississippi River crossing and a regional traffic solution. I would like to thank Governor Edwards and Shawn Wilson for their hard work and prioritizing this project.” As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Graves helped to finalize the five-year highway-funding law that includes many of his provisions designed to address Louisiana’s traffic problems. The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act contains substantial increases in federal highway funding for Louisiana – including $100 million in additional grant money under Graves’ amendment - and other important Graves provisions that are helping address short, mid and long-term traffic solutions in the entire capitol region. ###
07.16.2018	Washington DC – Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) announced a $2.2 million federal grant for the False River Regional Airport today. The funding will go toward a project to rehabilitate 5,000 feet of runway and taxiway at the facility. “This is big news for the New Roads community, Pointe Coupee and for the entire region,” said Graves. “These enhancements will help attract additional general aviation traffic to New Roads, support the airport’s growth and increase its positive economic impact on the whole parish. We’ll continue working alongside Yvonne, the Commission, Mayor Daisy and other parish leaders to ensure the flying public can continue to access safe and well-maintained services and facilities.” The False River Regional Airport (HZR) is owned by Pointe Coupee Parish and the City of New Roads and is operated by the False River Air Park Commission and Airport Manager/Director Yvonne Chenevert. The airport has progressively grown with assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration, Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development, Parish of Pointe Coupee, City of New Roads, and other entities.
07.16.2018	Washington DC – Bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) and Congressman Joe Kennedy III (D-MA) to make the federal government a little more user-friendly passed today in the US House of Representatives. H.R. 3076 – the Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Services (CASES) for Constituents Act of 2017 – gives members of the public the option to electronically authorize congressional offices to engage with federal agencies on their behalf by modernizing an outdated provision of the Privacy Act of 1974. Under current law, Members of Congress or their staff are required to obtain written authorization from a constituent before taking action to resolve the individual’s case: an outdated and inconvenient process that often creates unnecessary delays in issue resolution. “Let’s be honest, we’re not splitting atoms or reinventing the wheel here; everybody knows we’re a long way from government being able to keep up with the private sector when it comes to innovation, customer-focus or speed – but this bill helps to solve the problem,” said Graves. “More than 80% of American adults have smartphones and nearly all of them use the internet – there’s just no excuse for the fact that it’s business-as-usual since 1974 for the federal government.” “Although it doesn’t receive headlines or airtime, one of our greatest responsibilities is helping constituents in need,” said Congressman Kennedy. “Through the CASES Act, we can not only modernize our constituent services, but become more efficient as we seek to lift a burden off our neighbors’ shoulders. I thank Congressman Graves for his leadership on this issue and look forward to seeing this legislation pass the Senate.” Currently, constituents in need of assistance to resolve issues with the VA, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid or other federal agencies must physically print, sign and fax, mail or hand deliver a “privacy release form” to their congressional office before the office can take action. “Could you imagine if Amazon told you to print, sign and mail in your order before they could deliver it, or if the tables at Apple stores were lined with fax machines where employees stood waiting for service requests? Come on.” said Graves. “People always talk about running government like a business – no one finds success in business in 2018 using 1974 technology.” CASES integrates modern technology into a necessary process by allowing people to grant congressional offices electronic authorization, while retaining the option of a paper submission. It would direct the Trump Administration to develop a streamlined and consistent process across all agencies while ensuring the necessary privacy protections stay intact. “After our 2016 flood in South Louisiana, our office was available to field the thousands of calls from flood victims in need of help. How do you tell someone who literally just lost everything – including their printers and internet – that the law requires them to print and fax, scan, or mail in a sheet of paper authorizing us to speak to FEMA or any other agency before we could do anything? It was absurd.” Graves continued, “This bill is an example of how Congress is supposed to work: we saw firsthand how a streamlined process would improve service for our constituents, so we introduced CASES to improve government performance.” WHAT OTHERS ARE SAYING ABOUT CASES: CASES will “help citizens engage their elected officials from the convenience of their smartphone or tablet.” – Nextgov.com “Agencies [will] go deep into the practice of customer experience as a management discipline” - Customer Experience, Leadership, Strategic Planning WATCH REP. GRAVES EXPLAIN CASES ON THE HOUSE FLOOR: Rep. Graves is a leading voice in the effort to modernize the federal government, and a number of his technology solutions have passed in the House, including his FEMA Modernization, Accountability and Transparency Act, the Innovation in Offshore Leasing Act and a provision in the FAST Act encouraging better application of technologies to improve traffic systems (signed into law). He participated in the president’s American Technology Council, accompanying CEOs from Amazon, Microsoft and other companies at the forefront of tech-innovation. Graves is also a member of Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s innovation working group, which exists to identify legislative opportunities to innovate how the government operates to improve its performance. ###
07.05.2018	$1.4 BILLION IN NEW FUNDINGMore than $600 million for Comite & EBR Flood Projects; Up to $2.0 billion available for Capital Region flood protection; $760 million for West Shore Hurricane Protection Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) announced today one of the largest flood protection investments in Louisiana history -- nearly $3 billion in federal funding for priority flood and hurricane protection projects in south Louisiana. This includes nearly $1.4 billion in new federal funding and approximately $1.5 billion in recently announced flood protection and mitigation funding. The federal funding provides well over half-a-billion dollars to complete the Comite River Diversion Canal and major flood control projects in East Baton Rouge Parish – the culmination of a tireless determination to get Comite done and to enhance flood protection for the entire Capital Region. As Chair of the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, Graves has jurisdiction over the Corps of Engineers and has been working closely with the White House, Army and Corps leadership on appropriations, expediting projects and realigning priorities. “This is not a drill. This is not merely a hope and a prayer. The logjam has been completely broken, and we are getting the best flood protection we’ve ever had. Comite will be completed in three-to-four years, and the flood protection we deserved in 1983 and again in 2016 will soon arrive throughout the Capital Region and the state,” said Graves, the chairman of the Transportation subcommittee on Water Resources and Development (jurisdiction over the Corps of Engineers). A landmark achievement, this funding is a direct result of a 2016 Graves provision in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act that instructed the Corps to “provide priority funding for and expedite the completion of [the Comite River and East Baton Rouge Parish Watershed] projects” (Public Law 114–322; 130 Stat. 1707). These two companion projects are the incomplete legacy of the Great Flood of 1983. Together they are designed to rapidly drain floodwaters from the western rim of the Amite Basin. On April 5th, Cong. Graves and Governor John Bel Edwards announced an additional $1.213 billion in federal flood mitigation funds, which will be applied to additional flood mitigation measures and projects in the Capital Region and throughout Louisiana. Graves has urged investments in the West Shore, Upper Barataria Risk Reduction, Amite River, Lafourche Parish hurricane and flood protection, Morganza to the Gulf projects and others. Graves continued, “After our countless meetings and extensive negotiations with Corps leadership and White House officials, Louisiana will take an historic leap forward to tackle historic flood conditions. This is one of the largest investments in flood protection in Louisiana history. No more studies. We will be turning dirt and protecting our families.” “Since the 2016 flood, we have called for ‘Comite Plus’ – Comite, Amite, Manchac and comprehensive drainage improvements throughout the basin. With nearly $2 billion in federal funding, the Comite Plus strategy provides the best flood protection ever in the Capital Region. We appreciate President Trump, Vice President Pence, Mick Mulvaney and others working with us to help make this happen. Now, let’s get that bridge over the Mississippi River.” New Federal Funding: $343 million (100% federal funding) Comite River Diversion Canal $255 million East Baton Rouge Flood Control $760 million West Shore Hurricane Protection Project (St. John, St. Charles, St. James parishes) $15 million Grand Isle protection and berm reconstruction $15 million to develop coastal restoration and flood protection solutions (Amite River, Lake Pontchartrain and Vicinity, Westbank and Vicinity, South Central Louisiana, Upper Barataria) Recently Announced Federal Funding: $300 million in Fiscal Year 2018 Corps of Engineers funding (Including $14 million for Comite) $300 million FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program $1.2 billion in Community Development Block Grant flood mitigation $50 million in USDA funding specifically for Livingston Parish flood mitigation – made available via the “Graves’ amendment” in the March 2018 federal funding bill. ###
06.29.2018	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) introduced the Creating Opportunity and Sustainability Through Science (COASTS) Act, which will help ensure that our coastal communities are more resilient and sustainable in the face of coastal degradation. Specifically, this legislation: Directs the Secretary of Commerce, through NOAA, to develop and carry out a competitive grant program focused on interdisciplinary coastal resilience and sustainability. Requires that the grant program prioritize scalable, best practices that can be replicated in coastal cities and towns throughout the country. Codifies into law an advisory panel comprised of marine scientists, researchers, and representatives of coastal communities to coordinate federal ocean research and coastal resiliency efforts. “We saw last year just how important coastal protection and resilience efforts are to our coastal communities," said Graves. “Almost annually, the federal government comes in after disasters and spends billions on recovery efforts, and 2017 was no exception: in many coastal areas, communities are still fighting to recover from Hurricanes Irma, Harvey, and Maria. What if we didn’t have to rebuild every time there was a disaster? It’s possible. At a fraction of current disaster costs, we could invest in projects that strengthen the resiliency of our coastal communities and ecosystems before disasters strike – helping avoid the loss of life and property and preventing having to come in on the back-end and spending twice as much to rebuild. The COASTS Act lays out a framework to make these types of investments so that America’s thriving coastal areas are better prepared to withstand disasters, especially major hurricanes and flooding. Natural disasters happen, and our coast is our first line of defense – getting this right should be a top priority.” Over forty percent of the American population lives near the coast, and according to the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), that number is expected to increase by an additional 10 million people, or eight percent, by 2020. Despite the growing number of Americans residing in our coastal communities, these areas are facing unprecedented threats from sea-level rise, coastal ecosystem degradation, and extreme weather events. Without smart investments in coastal resiliency and adaptability, flooding in cities and towns is expected to cause damages totaling billions of dollars annually by the year 2050. “Communities on the North Shore and throughout coastal Massachusetts have come together to recover from this year’s storms. But we shouldn't be leaving these communities to fend for themselves against the rising threat of climate change,” said Moulton. “Investing in coastal resilience saves taxpayer dollars and ensures that our coastal communities are more resilient and sustainable for the future. Congress has an obligation to help America confront the growing challenges of rising oceans and severe weather, and this bipartisan effort does just that.” “On behalf of the Seawall Coalition, I want to commend Congressmen Graves (R-LA) and Moulton (D-MA) for their leadership on issues related to sea level rise, said Melissa Roberts, Director, Seawall Coalition. “The Seawall Coalition believes this bill is an important step to aid resiliency efforts on a national level by hardwiring it into Federal programs. The COASTS Act will help promote a national infrastructure that adequately prepares and supports our communities affected by sea level rise” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Substantial reforms to the Food Stamp Program that Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) introduced last year through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Reform Act of 2017 advanced in the U.S. House of Representatives today as provisions of the 2018 Farm Bill. With more than 100 cosponsors, support for the SNAP Reform Act amounted to a groundswell of Members who advocated alongside Graves to ensure the legislation’s core reform principles to strengthen work requirements for SNAP recipients were represented in this year’s Farm Bill. “Passage of this bill is a win for our farmers and food producers and their ability to continue getting food to the table, and these critical reforms are a win for taxpayers. Moving away from SNAP as a lifestyle and back towards its intended, temporary hand-up by requiring a more proactive approach to work is going to help more people get back on their feet more quickly while getting spending on the program under control,” said Graves. “It’s just wrong that hardworking Americans are having to continue spending a trillion dollars a year through countless poverty programs without much to show for it: we have more people in poverty across the country today than when many of those same programs first started. We have further to go on strengthening these reforms but today is a critical first step.” The Farm Bill provides certainty for farmers, crop insurers and food manufacturers, authorizing various agriculture and nutrition program for five years. Graves added: “No one on either side of the SNAP trap is honestly happy with the current system. Many able-bodied people who are on the program end up frustrated and stuck on its built-in cycle of poverty with no exit ramps. And taxpayers are frustrated about being on the hook for program costs that have basically tripled since the year 2000. We can do more for people; this bill does – by helping connect the unemployed with job opportunities or job skills to reintegrate them into the workforce.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) released the following statement in support of the White House’s release of Delivering Government Solutions in the 21st Century Reform Plan and Reorganization Recommendations today, which recommends moving the US Army Corps of Engineers out of the Department of Defense: “We need our Department of Defense focusing on national security threats like Russia, China, Iran, North Korea and terrorists – not on wetlands permits. The current organizational structure of the Corps of Engineers and our nation’s critical water resources mission – hurricane protection, coastal restoration, flood control, ports and waterways – needs to be compatible with the agency’s mission and a priority of the cabinet secretary. The current structure is neither and the decades of delays and skyrocketing project costs have resulted. We have been discussing this with senior Trump Administration officials, military leaders and many others across the country. White House support for this initiative is a major boost to the groundwork we have laid in the recently-passed Water Resources Development Act.” Among other recommendations, the White House proposal: Consolidates DOI hazardous cleanup into EPA superfund program. Moves the Corps CW out of DOD splitting navigation to DOT and everything else to DOI. Sells TVA power transmission assets Spins-off the St Lawrence Seaway from DOT. Moves NMFS to USFW Transitions Federal Government to electronic platform – consistent with Graves’ CASES legislation As the House Water Resource Subcommittee Chairman, Graves successfully included provisions in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018 to build on efforts focused on making the Army Corps of Engineers work for the American people, including a provision to begin the process of moving the Corps of Engineers out of the Department of Defense and into a more compatible federal agency. This reorganization will ensure that departments are better able to solve the problems they were created to address, and ensures that the American people, not bureaucratic process, is at the heart of our government. ###
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) made the following remarks today after meeting with President Trump, Vice President Pence and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen at the White House, and following the president’s signing of the executive order, Affording Congress an Opportunity to Address Family Separation: “I had a good meeting today with President Trump, the Vice President and Secretary Nielsen where we expressed our concerns regarding current immigration practices and shared our ideas on solutions. We welcome this executive order. No one wants to see kids separated from their families, and ending that is the right move; but let’s be completely clear about what we’re dealing with here: the majority of these cases were self-inflicted consequences of choosing to carry out the criminal act by foreigners illegally entering the United States, and virtually every instance was preventable had the perpetrators not broken the law. This “crisis” is preventable, but we are not doing enough to prevent it. We are a nation of immigrants; we are a nation of law – it is irrational to believe that you can have one without the other. It’s time to be clear about what our laws are and how they will be enforced. It’s time to put an end to the confusion. It’s time to be proactive: proactive in our securing of the border; proactive in our messaging through our embassies, especially in countries that export high numbers of illegal immigrants – making clear the risks associated with coming here illegally, the likelihood of being caught and what the consequences are, and; proactive in educating those seeking asylum on the legal process to do so. It is wrong for the United States to entirely close our borders, and it is wrong to have totally open borders where the world’s 7.3 billion foreigners can come here as they wish. The answer is somewhere in between. That means we need to have secure borders and a reformed immigration process. We will continue working with the White House and with the Congress to ensure our border is secure, our laws are enforced and the legal immigration process is fixed in a way that makes coming here legally a better option than coming here illegally.” ###
06.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) initiated a meeting today with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Ben Carson, reiterating the urgent need for solutions to fix ongoing deficiencies plaguing implementation of Restore Louisiana – the state-run program that has been slow to disburse the 1.7 billion federal disaster recovery dollars appropriated by Congress after the Great Flood of August 2016. The Governor of Louisiana was represented by Chief of Staff Mark Cooper and Office of Community Development Director Pat Forbes, who attended the meeting at the invitation of Rep. Graves. Secretary Carson and HUD officials indicated a renewed commitment to get better recovery results in three primary ways: HUD agreed to work with Graves and the State of Louisiana to put together a strike team to identify and fix state, federal and contractor delays to Restore Program implementation, and like programs in 2017 hurricane-affected states. HUD acknowledged the possibility of relief for certain homeowners caught in the Duplication of Benefits trap and committed to work with Graves and the State to identify a path forward under the current HUD regulations. HUD acknowledged that the Graves’ Duplication of Benefits legislation that passed today in the US Senate Homeland Security Committee is necessary for a comprehensive Duplication of Benefits fix. Graves and the Governor’s office pointed to the 1.2 billion flood mitigation dollars that were approved by Congress in February and urged HUD to quickly issue the federal guidance necessary for states to begin using these dollars for flood protection and other projects in affected states. HUD indicated that the state may be able to proceed with flood protection work using state funds that could then be reimbursed with the HUD dollars in coming months. “The slow process of getting recovery money to flood victims is inexcusable. We secured the first federal appropriation 20 months ago, yet only a fraction of the dollars are in the hands of flood victims. I am not interested in casting blame, but we need to work together to fix this for Louisiana’s flood victims and for the 2017 hurricane victims. At the meeting today, we secured a commitment to work together to get this fixed. We appreciate Mark Cooper and Pat Forbes joining us today. It was a very productive meeting,” said Graves. ###
06.11.2018	House Water Resources Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) announced today that the US Army Corps of Engineers FY 2018 Construction Work Plan will provide $14 million of federal funding toward the Comite River Diversion Canal project, along with $1.5 million for East Baton Rouge, $1 million for Ascension Parish and $750,000 for Livingston Parish Environmental Infrastructure projects. An additional $1.15 million will be allocated for water resource projects in Iberia Parish and along the Red River. These investment announcements come as Graves continues to negotiate with the Corps, the White House and through legislative efforts in the House of Representatives to fully fund Comite and other flood protection projects in the Capital Region and South Louisiana. “Since 2015, we’ve continued to push the Corps on Comite – resulting in $37 million of dedicated Work Plan funding for the project over the last 3-and-a-half years,” said Graves. “This $14 million is an important installment, but it’s not enough. We are working right now to get this project fully funded and completed, and it will happen – mark my words.” ###
06.06.2018	Washington, DC – Water Resource Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) bolstered tonight’s House passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, comprehensive legislation that authorizes the nation’s water resources infrastructure projects and programs. WRDA 2018 builds on efforts focused on making the Army Corps of Engineers work for the American people so our communities are more resilient against hurricanes, storms and floods while ensuring the long-term viability of our nation’s water infrastructure. The bill includes numerous Graves-authored policies that positively affect Louisiana’s flood defense, rivers and ports, coastal restoration, hurricane protection, environmental and other water resources-related priorities. The bill now awaits action in the US Senate. “If we continue doing things the same way we’ve always done them, the flood, hurricane and coastal protection improvements our country so desperately needs will never come to fruition,” said Graves. “Right now, the Army Corps of Engineers has a $100 billion backlog of projects. If all we do is continue to incrementally invest two billion dollars on construction annually, we will finish these projects approximately never. We have to fix what’s broken about the process – and this bill moves us in that direction.” Graves successfully earned bipartisan support for additional provisions and policy revisions following the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee’s approval of the bill in late May, and the final WRDA product that passed tonight makes substantial headway toward transforming the effectiveness, speed and efficiency of completing water infrastructure investments in America. Some of the accomplishments of Graves’ provisions include: Begins the process of moving the Corps of Engineers out of the Department of Defense and into a more compatible federal agency. This will help to make the Corp’s mission an agency priority and break the bureaucratic log jam that has plagued projects for decades. Establishes a new dredging pilot program that mirrors how the private sector handles ongoing operations and maintenance needs. Under the pilot, the Corps can execute contracts for up to five years for dredging maintenance of our waterways, which will mean better reliability in river conditions for commercial and recreational users of our ports and waterways. The current contracting process is inefficient, results in repeatedly paying for mobilization and demobilization of dredges and leads to restrictions on our waterways. Directs the Corps to develop a new operations plan for the Old River control structure. The current strict requirement that 70 percent of the flow go down the Mississippi River while 30 percent go down the Atchafalaya River is antiquated and misses opportunities to advance flood protection, coastal restoration, our ports, fisheries and crawfish production, hydroelectric production and other benefits. Current law has the Corps operating such structures based on 70-year-old conditions. Allows for state and local governments to build Corps projects following the using the federal government’s permitting and environmental streamlining processes. This will save millions of dollars and years of delays. Preventing the Corps from forcing expensive land acquisitions for water resource related projects and actions when temporary easements or donations of property are available. This helps to reduce the cost of projects and improves project cooperation. WRDA lays the foundation for the president’s broader infrastructure package as it focuses on our ports, inland waterways, locks, dams, flood protection and other water infrastructure that underpin the nation’s ability to generate economic growth, move goods throughout the country and beyond our borders, and better protect our communities and environment. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Several policies authored by Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) earned approval in the U.S. House with the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2018 (NDAA). The defense bill provides funding authorization and policies to ensure America’s warfighters have the resources and support needed to ensure a strong national defense. “The overwhelming and bipartisan passage of the NDAA demonstrates the critical importance of restoring our nation’s military readiness and making sure our warfighters have the edge as they serve us all,” said Graves. “We have to ensure that our military men and women have the resources, equipment, technology and support needed to maintain a defense posture that safeguards the American people against the dynamic tactics, threats and capabilities of her enemies.” Five Graves amendments are included in the NDAA: National Guard Emergency Response Under this Graves amendment, states would be federally reimbursed in a timely manner when their National Guard members or units are deployed to other states to assist with response and recovery operations in the wake of disasters. The ability for disaster-stricken areas to benefit from National Guard capabilities in other states is invaluable, and states should be reimbursed for costs incurred because of their service. The current lack of clarity around reimbursements makes states apprehensive about deploying their National Guard in these cases. Graves’ amendment provides clarity so that response capabilities can be maximized more quickly to save more lives when disasters strike. This provision does not change the way states respond to emergencies within their own borders. It simply assures that state National Guard members receive the same pay, benefits, and protections as their federal counterparts when responding to major national disasters that require a Presidential declaration like our 2016 flood, and Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. Cutting Waste and Reinvesting Savings to Benefit Our Warfighters Previously, the Department of Defense agreed with a report that estimated $2 billion in administrative savings could be realized over the next 5 years if military commissaries and exchanges adopted more cost-effective operations and management practices. Graves authored an amendment requiring DoD to pursue these cost-saving changes without raising prices on our service members so that the $2 billion saved can be reinvested into the core mission of our nation’s military instead of being wasted on inefficient administrative functions. Awarding the Vietnam Service Medal to Operation End Sweep Veterans Under this Graves provision, the Secretary of the respective branch of the military would be given necessary flexibility to award the Vietnam Service Medal to participants of Operation End Sweep – a mission where American military members removed mines from inland waterways and other coastal areas near Haiphong, Vietnam following the Vietnam War. Because of procedural limitations, many Vietnam Veterans in Louisiana and across the nation who served valiantly in Operation End Sweep have been excluded from Vietnam Service Medal Recognition. Giving Louisiana More Control Over Sediment Resources to Enhance Coastal Efforts NDAA includes Graves language from a Natural Resources bill that would designate certain sediments, like those used for Louisiana’s coastal restoration and similar projects, as a strategic resource and critical to that nation’s infrastructure and national security. The provision would make Louisiana eligible for expedited permitting for sand resources and allow the state to manage those resources in way that complements restoration efforts. Streamlining Buildings Procurement and Saving Taxpayer Dollars This Graves amendment streamlines the process and cuts costs associated with federal building leases by removing unnecessary burdens for federal commercial leasing in certain cases.The amendment requires the Government Accountability Office to audit the application process for building procurement on a biennial basis to protect against fraud and abuse. ###
05.18.2018	Transportation and Infrastructure Committee leaders today introduced the bipartisan Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, legislation that provides for improvements to the Nation’s ports, inland waterways, locks, dams, flood protection, ecosystem restoration, and other water resources infrastructure. WRDA 2018 (H.R. 8) was introduced by Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves (R-LA), and Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Grace Napolitano (D-CA). The legislation follows the transparent process approved by Congress in the 2014 water resources law for considering proposed U.S. Army Corps of Engineers civil works activities. Consideration of WRDA legislation in 2014, 2016, and now 2018 ensures that Congress upholds its responsibility to authorize nationally important water infrastructure improvements that are more locally driven. The Committee will hold a markup of H.R. 8 at 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday, May 23, 2018. “WRDA positively impacts every single state and district in the country,” said Shuster. “This infrastructure is vital to moving goods throughout the country, from the products we all use in our daily lives, to the crops, resources, and goods we produce locally and send overseas in foreign commerce. WRDA works because it improves critical water resources infrastructure, strengthens the economy, and protects our communities. We have maintained regular order by moving this critical infrastructure legislation in each of the last two congresses, and I appreciate the bipartisan collaboration of my colleagues, Ranking Member DeFazio, Chairman Graves, and Ranking Member Napolitano, on this bill. I look forward to seeing WRDA 2018 signed into law.” “Nearly every aspect of American life – our economy, safety and our ability to endure the unexpected – hinges on the quality and performance of our ports, navigation channels, flood protection structures and other water infrastructure investments,” said Graves. “We have to make sure we’re building these projects in a way that reflects the urgency of the needs, using the right solutions in the right places at the right times. Instead of wasting decades caught up in process, we have to focus on outcomes: completed projects, more resilient communities, modern ports and a healthy environment. This legislation is a step toward the federal government being a partner instead of an obstacle, allowing for efficient planning and construction of projects alongside state and local counterparts.” Video of WRDA Works for Louisiana “It is fitting that during Infrastructure Week we are introducing the Water Resources Development Act, a critical piece of legislation to help address the needs of our Nation’s ports, harbors, and waterways,” said DeFazio. “This legislation will authorize water infrastructure projects developed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that will strengthen our coastal communities and our environment, and create and sustain jobs. But more importantly, H.R. 8 includes my provision to ensure the funds collected in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund will be used for their intended purpose—harbor maintenance. This proposal, which was approved by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the last Congress, is just commonsense. Unlocking the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is key to ensuring we’re not just adding to the $100 billion dollar backlog of projects at the Corps of Engineers, but are actually using existing funds to make real investments in our Nation’s ports, harbors and waterways. I applaud Chairmen Shuster and Graves, and Ranking Member Napolitano for their bipartisan work, and I look forward to getting this bill passed and signed into law.” “Strengthening our water resources infrastructure is critical to our Nation’s economy and security, and we are glad to have again reached bipartisan agreement in this area,” said Napolitano. “Our water agencies have been very supportive, and their continued input will be needed to ensure local needs are met. I thank Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio, and Chairman Graves for their partnership, and we look forward to swift passage of WRDA.” Click here for additional information about the Water Resources Development Act of 2018.
05.04.2018	Graves Congratulates 2018 Congressional Art Competition Winners Baton Rouge, LA – U.S. Congressman Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge) congratulated the winners of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition during an awards ceremony at the Arts Council of Greater Baton Rouge last night. Lauren Diaz, a junior at The Church Academy, was announced as the winner for the 6th Congressional District for her graphite drawing entitled “The Forgotten Hero,” a portrait of a homeless veteran. Her artwork will be showcased in the corridor leading to the U.S. Capitol building for the next year. Diaz is also invited to join other national winners in Washington, DC for the Congressional High School Art Competition award ceremony in June. “Lauren is an incredibly talented young artist and I am honored that her artwork will represent the 6th Congressional District in D.C.,” said Graves. “We have a great group of students that participated this year and I amazed at the talent. Seeing not just the different styles of art, but the different ways they express themselves, the different materials and techniques- it is absolutely amazing.” Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and more specifically in each congressional district. This year’s competition included 51 entries from students representing five different schools. A local panel of judges determined the winners. Renee Chatelain, President/CEO of Arts council of Greater Baton Rouge added, “Congressman Graves’ support of this initiative brings important attention to the great artistic talent of our young adults and celebrates all that is great about Louisiana through the eyes of these artists. His involvement encourages art teachers in the region, as well as students and their families, creating community connection and pride of place. The Arts Council of Greater Baton Rouge is grateful for his interest and passion about arts education While Diaz's first place portrait will hang in the halls of the Capitol, the other winners will be displayed in Congressman Graves' other offices. The following winners from the 6th Congressional District were also announced last night: Second Place Winner J. Dornier of Lee High School. Third Place Winner Pratima Pinnepalli of Lee High School Fourth Place Winner Dilia Reyes-Hill of Lee High School Fifth Place Winner Miracle Bell of Lee High School Facebook Favorite Julia Aaron of Central High School
04.27.2018	Washington - U.S. Congressman Garret Graves's legislation to fix the flawed ‘duplication of benefits’ policy passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today, along with a number of other top priorities for Louisianans addressed in HR. 4, “The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018.” The bipartisan package to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration includes the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA), legislation that provides extensive improvements to FEMA’s disaster response and recovery programs to help communities better prepare for, respond to, recover from and mitigate against disasters of all kinds. Video of Graves Duplication of Benefits Fix Passes House a Second Time “This bill truly captures and takes action on the frontline feedback and lessons learned from our 2016 flood, recent hurricanes and other disasters across the country,” said Graves. “Making changes to policies that don’t work so that the nation is better positioned before the next disaster strikes is the way Congress is supposed to work.” HR. 4 has substantial momentum as it heads to the Senate after overwhelming passage in the House – there were only 13 “no” votes today. Its advancement marks the second time that Graves’s language to fix duplications of benefits passed in the House of Representatives, demonstrating the strong support for that and other policies contained in the bill. The legislation also contains a handful of new Graves policies specifically designed to address recovery impediments in South Louisiana and for which he has long advocated, including: A Graves-Richmond arbitration amendment to create a fair and unbiased process for entities to settle claim disputes with FEMA through an independent board experienced with settling such disagreements. FEMA should not be able to determine whether its own denials are justified. A Graves-Richmond housing amendment allows state and local governments to provide post-disaster, temporary housing at a cost-savings compared to FEMA housing. Graves: “We’re all aware of the out-of-control costs associated with MHUs and have heard story after story of people having to wait months on FEMA to deliver and install them. It just doesn’t make any sense when in many cases you can go to an RV lot in town and get the same or a better trailer for less money.” Current law prohibits FEMA from reimbursing local governments for the cost of providing a housing solution for those who are displaced after a disaster, which caused significant headache for the Livingston Parish Sheriff’s Department and others after the 2016 flood. A Graves-Richmond amendment to fix a flawed interpretation of current law that has resulted in tens of millions in additional costs to flooded schools, delaying their ability to come back online, teach our students and perform their fundamental role in communities. The Graves amendment imposed a one-penalty-per-facility limit as Congress intended. HR. 4 maintains other Graves provisions already in DRRA: a solution to fix and prevent future situations like the “I-12 Wall,” allowing FEMA assistance for houses of worship, providing for localized management of temporary housing and MHUs and others. Click below a short video of Graves talking about the bill: The five-year FAA reauthorization provides long-term stability for the Nation’s aviation community, continues investment in airports across the country, improves America’s competitiveness in the global aviation sector, strengthens passenger protections, and ensures the safety of the system for the traveling public. ###
04.18.2018	Graves’ Statement on the Passing of First Lady Barbara Bush Washington, DC —Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) issued the following statement regarding the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush tonight: “Like countless Americans across the country tonight, we join the Bush family in mourning the loss of a loving wife, a loyal mother and one of the great former First Ladies of our nation, Barbara Bush. We pray for peace for both Presidents Bush, the family and those closest to her as we celebrate her life and legacy.” ###
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Louisiana Congressmen Garret Graves and Steve Scalise issued the following statements today as the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) approved Louisiana’s Gulf Exempted Fishing Permits, which signals significant commitment from the federal government to recognize the economic benefits and vitality of the recreational fishing sector in the Gulf of Mexico. The permit allows Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida to set recreational seasons in each state for the taking of red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico. “This is great news for the countless number of normal, everyday people across Louisiana and the Gulf Coast who have seen their fishing opportunities decline year after year through abbreviated federal red snapper seasons. Last year, we successfully avoided the threat of a three-day season, but found ourselves back on a trajectory to have less than a week this year. But by working with fisheries managers back home , NOAA and others, we were able to get to a consensus solution with the 5 Gulf States that ensures recreational fishers will have a fair opportunity to go out and enjoy the bounty of the Gulf this season,” said Graves. “Louisiana continues to pave the way for state-based fisheries management through its LA Creel data collection method. LA Creel is the only NMFS-certified survey in the region and is a proven method for providing the accurate science necessary for fair, responsible and sustainable recreational fishing. We hope to continue that trend this year with another successful and responsible snapper season.” "After the threat of only a three-day season last year, I am pleased to see an expanded Red Snapper fishing season for private anglers this time around, strengthening Louisiana’s rightful position as the ‘Sportsman’s Paradise,’” said Congressman Scalise. “It is my hope that today’s action scaling back federal control of the Red Snapper season marks the beginning of restoring power back to Gulf States who understand their states’ needs best." ###
04.13.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Garret Graves announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded a grant in the amount of $23.5 million to the Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development to help Louisiana communities repair highways and roads that have suffered serious damage from the 2016 flood. “This tranche of money will allow our state to repair and rebuild portions of roads, bridges and other infrastructure assets that were damaged by the 2016 flood," said Graves. "As we put these resources to work, it's critical to do so in a way that makes our communities stronger and less vulnerable to future rain, storm or other disaster events." Emergency Relief (ER) funds from the Federal Highway Administration are granted to repair federal highways and roads after states of emergency caused by natural disasters. Eligible repair work includes emergency repairs needed to restore essential traffic, minimize the extent of damage, or protect the remaining facilities as well as permanent repairs necessary to restore the highway to its pre-disaster condition. This grant will fund repair work that includes stabilizing and repairing impacted roadway embankments, rebuilding damaged roadways, and the repair and replacement of damaged structures like bridges. ###
04.05.2018	BATON ROUGE – Today, Gov. John Bel Edwards and U.S. Rep. Garret Graves announced that the federal government will allocate an additional $1.213 billion in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding for hazard mitigation projects in parishes that were impacted by the 2016 floods. “This new investment from HUD is critically important to our rebuilding efforts. It will allow us to make investments in flood risk reduction and infrastructure projects in areas of our state that were devastated by the 2016 floods, including partnering with the Army Corps of Engineers to make investments in large-scale projects such as the Comite River Diversion Canal. Once we have the full details from the federal government regarding how these funds can be spent, we will work with stakeholders and local governments to determine what projects to fund and outline our plan to HUD. I appreciate the congressional delegation’s continued efforts on our flood recovery, and I am confident these resources will be used to strengthen our communities against future disasters,” said Governor Edwards. “This is one of the largest flood protection, mitigation and resiliency disaster appropriations made to the state of Louisiana in history and brings the sum of federal recovery dollars for Louisiana’s 2016 floods to more than 10 billion, enabling us to advance critical projects that have been stagnant for far too long – projects like Comite, West Shore, Upper Barataria Risk Reduction and Morganza to the Gulf. These resources will be used as part of an overall solution for Comite – a solution that will include Army Corps of Engineers funding – but will also give Louisiana flexibility to directly take the lead on implementing and completing projects instead of being held hostage by the bureaucracy of the Corps,” said Graves. “Additionally, this funding can be used to clear the debris in bayous, ditches and other drainage waterways in East Baton Rouge, Livingston, Ascension and other vulnerable areas to further protect families and businesses. It’s time to stop expecting people to just rebuild every time there’s a flood and raise their insurance rates – we have to make our communities stronger." This tranche of federal dollars was appropriated through the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which became law on February 9, 2018 Graves added, “We’re going to continue working with HUD and are urging them to move as quickly as possible to make this money available so that the state can begin using it to deliver better flood protection to the people of South Louisiana. We are also working with the Corps to expedite their prioritization of critical projects like Comite and West Shore.” ###
02.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) advanced bipartisan legislation this week that would simplify an important – but archaic – process Americans endure to authorize their elected representatives to step in when FEMA, the Social Security Administration, the IRS, Medicare, the VA and other agencies of the federal bureaucracy aren’t providing the level of customer service citizens deserve. Graves’ H.R. 3076, the Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Services (CASES) Act, passed unanimously out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on Tuesday and is one step closer to becoming law. Because of a provision in the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. § 552a), Members of Congress or their staff obtain written authorization from constituents before beginning work to resolve individuals’ issues with federal agencies. This authorization is an important security measure, but in practice, it often causes unnecessary delays since people have to first access a printer, print a privacy release form, sign the release form then hand deliver or mail the form back to their representative(s). The CASES Act modernizes this core function of congressional offices by giving people the option to electronically authorize their Members of Congress to engage an agency on their behalf. “It’s amazing that – in a world where nearly all adult Americans use the internet, 75% of households have broadband access in their homes and more than 80% carry a smartphone – Washington is largely doing its business the same way it did more than a quarter of a century ago,” said Graves. Casework is a core function of congressional offices, and most of the time when people contact their elected representatives with casework, their problem is urgent – like, “my home flooded, along with all my possession and legal documents; I don’t know where to go or what to do and FEMA is telling me it will be 4 weeks before they can deliver a trailer to my property” kind of urgent. “After our flood in 2016, our office was available to field the thousands of calls from flood victims in need of help. How do you tell someone who literally just lost everything – including their printers and internet – that the law requires them to print and fax, scan, or mail in a sheet of paper authorizing us to speak to FEMA or any other agency before we could do anything? It was absurd.” Graves continued, “This bill is an example of how Congress is supposed to work: we saw firsthand how a streamlined process would improve service for our constituents, so we introduced CASES to improve government performance.” CASES integrates modern technology to enhance a necessary process and improve customer service, while maintaining the option of paper submission for those who prefer it. The bill would direct the Office of Management and Budget to develop a streamlined and consistent process across all agencies while ensuring the necessary privacy protections stay intact. Bottom line, the bill will make life easier for flood victims and all those who need help with various federal agencies. With the bill’s passage through the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, its next step is consideration on the House floor. Congressman Joe Kennedy (D-MA) joined Graves as an original co-sponsor of the Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Services (CASES) for Constituents Act of 2017. ###
01.31.2018	Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) shared his reaction to President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address tonight in a video recorded following the speech. “The President did a great job shedding light on some of the accomplishments during the first year of this new Congress and the new Administration – accomplishments that have largely been flying under the radar,” said Graves. “This is a new direction for our country compared to the last 8 years – economic growth, rising wages, record low unemployment, tax cuts benefiting Americans across the board – and the facts are crystal clear: it’s working.” said Graves. Watch the full video here: https://www.facebook.com/CongressmanGarretGraves/videos/867628626750554/
01.29.2018	U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), and U.S. Representative Garret Graves (R-LA-06) today applauded President Trump’s decision to invite Cajun Navy founder Jon Bridgers to attend this year’s State of the Union address on Tuesday. “Louisiana’s Cajun Navy shows us what’s possible when people from varied backgrounds come together, pool their talents and resources and work as one to serve their neighbors, friends and families in need. Their efforts and ongoing commitment to hurting communities in Louisiana and Texas represent the best of all us, and I’m hopeful this recognition will help remind us all that our bond as Americans first is stronger than any of the differences that often separate,” said Rep. Graves. “The Cajun Navy honored the biblical command to ‘do unto others as you would have them do unto you,’” said Dr. Cassidy. “When floodwaters overwhelmed Louisiana in 2016 and Texas after Hurricane Harvey, the Cajun Navy, using their own boats and supplies, rescued fellow Americans in danger. I thank President Trump for recognizing these heroes.” The Louisiana-based Cajun Navy is an unofficial, volunteer network of civilian boat owners who assist in search and rescue efforts following severe flood events, including in 2016 in Louisiana. The group formed during the recovery efforts of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and also played a major part in rescue efforts in Texas after Hurricane Harvey in 2017. They continue to help collect resources and donations for those who lost their homes during these storms.
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to continue funding the federal government, maintain critical military operations and provide a long-term reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) that covers nearly 9 million children across the country and over 161,000 in Louisiana. Reps. Ralph Abraham, M.D. (La.-05), Garret Graves (La.-06), Clay Higgins (La.-03), Mike Johnson (La.-04) and Majority Whip Steve Scalise (La.-01) released the following statement after voting in support of this legislation: “The House did its job yesterday and voted to fund our government, providing critical funding for our military and ensuring the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) has long-term funding so our most vulnerable children can continue to receive the health care they need. Now, the only thing standing in the way of funding for our troops and our children are Senate Democrats playing dangerous political games. The time has come for Senate Democrats to decide if they are going to put shutting down the government to force immediate amnesty for illegal immigrants over providing health care for nearly 9 million American children, including over 161,000 kids in Louisiana. Our families and troops deserve to be put first, and Senate Democrats must stop their hostage tactics and do the right thing by voting to keep our government open.” Rep. Graves also took to Facebook to further explain the facts here.
01.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) sent a letter today to Department of the Interior (DOI) Secretary Ryan Zinke blasting the agency’s recent capitulation on energy exploration in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico (EGOM). The agency’s National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program (National OCS Program) for 2019-2024 proposal released on January 4, 2018 initially included exploration and production activities in the EGOM but excluded the EGOM just days later – prior to the public having an opportunity to participate in a public comment period. Graves contends that DOI’s actions are a double standard, granting preferential treatment to some states over others. “DOI explicitly states in its Fiscal Year 2018 Budget in Brief document that “the sale of public resources from Federal water owned by all Americans [should] benefit all Americans”. That statement is irreconcilable with the recent EGOM announcement. How can DOI call offshore energy a federal resource that should yield a national benefit and turnaround to grant full deference to the adjacent “local and state voice” in deciding whether to pursue development of a resource which belongs to all Americans? The potentially tens of billions of dollars in energy resources in the EGOM – that, according to the Department, belong to all Americans for the benefit of all Americans – are now off limits at the behest of a single state… If it is now the Department of the Interior’s position that adjacent states and local governments dictate what happens in federal waters and how federal resources in those waters are to be managed – regardless of the tens of billions of dollars in potential implications to the federal treasury or dependence on foreign energy – Louisiana’s voice deserves to be heard as well,” Graves stated in the letter. Click here to read the letter. ###
01.04.2018	Baton Rouge, LA - Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) issued the following statement today after the U.S. Department of the Interior released its five-year Draft Proposed Program (DPP) for Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) oil and gas leasing: “Let’s be clear – preventing energy production in the United States makes us reliant upon foreign energy sources, sends hundreds of billions of American dollars overseas and exports jobs to other countries. This energy plan is different. It starts to reverse our reliance upon foreign energy and aims to maximize our domestic resources, including in the Gulf of Mexico. Our energy workforce and families have suffered through a historic offshore energy slump that was compounded by previous federal policies – this plan will create jobs, not kill them. The United States has one of the safest, most environmentally-sensitive conventional energy production programs in the world – and nobody does it better than Louisiana. Eliminating barriers to domestic energy production as envisioned in this plan is a step in the right direction.” ###
12.21.2017	Done Before Christmas: Eliminate “Duplication of Benefits” prohibition on grant funds for flood victims Provide several hundred million dollars for Louisiana to build back stronger Tax relief for flood victims Path to COMPLETE the Comite flood prevention project Washington, DC — Congressman Garret Graves (South Louisiana) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to provide important relief to Louisiana disaster victims. The emergency appropriations bill (H.R. 4667) passed this evening includes a number of top priorities for Louisianans. H.R. 4667 and the tax relief bill (H.R.1) include the following: Permanently eliminates “Duplication of Benefits” policy that considers disaster loans duplicative of grants – and prevents disaster victims from participating in Restore Louisiana program grants; Provides an estimated $600,000,000 in additional disaster recovery dollars so our communities can recover and build back stronger; Eliminates IRS tax penalties on early retirement withdrawals for flood recovery and makes flood losses tax deductible (H.R. 1); Clears legal and funding obstacles to complete the Comite Diversion project with billions of dollars in federal Community Development Block Grant and Hazard Mitigation funding. “This is a huge win and early Christmas present for Louisiana. We have been working on these problems for months and now have duplication of benefits fixed, additional federal recovery funding, tax relief and a clear path to complete the Comite Diversion project,” commented Graves following the House vote. Duplication of Benefits: On November 17th, Graves introduced H.R. 4438 which addressed the duplication of benefits issue many have encountered after the August 2016 flooding. This bill explicitly provides that a loan is not duplicative of a grant – making flood victims eligible for both disaster recovery loans and grants through the Restore Louisiana program. Graves’ bill was included in the final version of the appropriations bill passed this evening. “Only the federal government could think that a loan duplicates a grant. This absurd concept is over and our flood victims will be eligible for Restore Louisiana grants.” Additional Recovery Funding: Louisiana will receive at least an estimated $600,000,000 in additional Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery funds for the 2016 floods. Total federal recovery and flood prevention funds provided to Louisiana will now exceed $2,600,000,000. Total federal funding to Louisiana for the 2016 floods, including flood insurance payments, approach $8,000,000,000. “We continue to push for additional federal flood recovery funding to build back smarter and stronger.” Disaster Tax Relief: In June, Graves introduced a measure to provide tax relief (H.R. 2849), along with Congressmen Richmond, Abraham, and Higgins. Two of the provisions penalizing recovery include a 10% penalty for individuals withdrawing from their retirement accounts and having to meet a 10% threshold in claiming losses for the significant devastation caused by the 2016 floods. With passage of these provisions in the tax reform bill passed earlier this week, individuals are given the ability to file amended returns for the losses incurred. These provisions are necessary tools for individuals who did not wait on government assistance and would like to rebuild using their own hard earned savings, without incurring penalties. Along with lower tax rates and larger standard deductions, the recovery process will be aided. “Flood victims should be rewarded for being proactive and using their own resources to rebuild – not penalized by the IRS. This injustice is now fixed.” Completion of Comite Diversion Project: Graves’ legislation (H.R. 4438) also provides the State of Louisiana the clear ability to use federal funds provided to the state to complete the Comite Diversion project. “The Comite Diversion project dates back to the early 1980s and we finally have a clear path to finish this project once and for all. Our citizens have been paying taxes to fund this project for decades and they have seen little progress for their money. With the vote tonight and the enactment of our legislation, taxpayers can witness completion of the Comite Diversion project.” H.R. 4467 passed the House by a vote of 251-169 this evening. It now goes to the Senate for passage. “With the strong bi-partisan vote in the House tonight, we have provided the Senate momentum and great common sense solutions to send to the President before Christmas. We urge quick action.” ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R- South Louisiana) released the following statement after voting today in the US House of Representatives to pass the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act – a bill that reforms the nation’s tax code for the first time in 31 years: “This is a game-changing rewrite of our tax system that finally puts what’s best for people – not government – first. Lowering taxes across every income tax bracket, nearly doubling the standard deduction, giving people back their freedom to make healthcare decisions without having to pay a government-imposed penalty and lifting some of the tax burden on our small businesses means that Washington takes less while individuals, families and job creators keep more. That’s a good thing. Finally, this tax reform bill helps to eliminate the strategic advantage that foreign companies hold over America’s small businesses by providing competitive tax rates. This provides opportunities for all Americans by creating jobs here in our country not overseas and helps to increase pay for our families. And Louisiana wins: our flood and other disaster victims get the tax breaks we’ve fought for all year long, we preserved tax incentives uniquely critical for community development, historic preservation, economic reinvestment and higher education, and the bill includes a change that may result in a small increase in coastal restoration and hurricane protection funding for Louisiana by amending offshore energy revenue sharing law.” Flood Tax Relief: Individuals affected by the 2016 flooding in Louisiana will now have much needed tax relief with the passage of this bill. The conference report contains two provisions adopted in the Senate passed version, which will remove the 10% penalty many incurred when withdrawing from their retirement plans in the wake of this disaster. The other provision provides that casualty losses are deductible without exceeding ten percent of the taxpayer’s adjusted gross income. The conference report embodies the legislation first proposed by Reps. Charles Boustany and Graves in the wake of the Louisiana 2016 floods. H.R. 2849, the “Louisiana Flood and Storm Devastation Tax Relief Act of 2017” was introduced June 8, 2017, and cosponsored by Reps. Cedric Richmond, Ralph Abraham and Clay Higgins. Increased Revenue for Coastal Restoration: The march to restore our coast continues. The conference report includes a provision that expands upon the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act that Graves helped to write and negotiate in 2006. H.R. 1 may result in an additional $70 million to $80 million to Louisiana’s restoration efforts. Combined with the law changes Graves made (HR 3462, which was included in the FAST Act) to the Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration Act (CWPPRA) in 2015, which adds $80 million to $100 million a year in coastal protection efforts, the delegation’s efforts to ramp up coastal protection spending has expanded dramatically. Grad School Tax Credit: Currently, employees, as well as their spouse or any dependents, of higher education institutions are able to exclude tuition reductions from gross income. The conference report preserves this protection. Graves stated last month when passing the House version of H.R. 1 that he would work to fix the unintended impact of H.R. 1 on the Grad School Tax Credit. Historic Tax Credit: Louisiana’s unique cultural and architectural heritage means our state has consistently been at the top of the list of states that utilize the rehabilitation credit. Graves worked with House leaders to urge protection of the credit in the Senate version of the bill, which does modify the credit but retains a 20-percent credit for qualifying rehabilitation expenditures. The preservation of this credit helps to protect many historic buildings and economic revitalization projects in our state. New Markets Tax Credit: Louisiana has also utilized the New Markets Tax Credit to bring development, job creation and economic growth to areas of our community in need. Graves vocalized support for continuing access to the credit, based on the return of investment on federal tax dollars. As a result, the House and Senate Conference Committee Report maintains intact current availability to this credit, enabling necessary investments to continue to be made in our community. Graves will continue to work with the Ways and Means Committee to help improve this program’s guidelines to ensure only meritorious projects that advance the public’s best interest are advanced. Graves continued: “We are operating under a 31-year old tax code. It is outdated, broken and punishes hardworking Americans. As other countries have modernized their tax codes to reflect today’s economy, we continue to challenge future growth and put the future of our children and grandchildren in jeopardy. When you look at this bill collectively, we’re talking about a fundamentally different environment for our country – one that allows for higher wages, lets people keep more of their hard-earned money, encourages broad economic growth, supports the kind of investments needed to own a home, have or adopt children and to build safer communities with stronger families and more opportunity for everyone.” Under the bill that now awaits Senate approval before being sent to the president, a family of four with income of around $73,000 (median family income) will see a tax cut of more than $2,000. Their tax bill will fall from what they would pay next year, around $3,557.50, to paying $1,499 instead—a reduction of $2,059. This represents a reduction in their tax bill of nearly 58 percent.* A single parent with one child earning $41,000 will see a tax cut of more than $1,300. Their tax bill will fall from what they would pay next year, around $1,792.50, to paying $488 instead—a reduction of $1,304.50. This represents a reduction in their tax bill of nearly 73 percent, meaning that their tax bill next year will be about one quarter of what it would be under current law.* Married small business owners with income of $100,000 per year: a couple earning $100,000, with $60,000 from wages, $25,000 in compensation from their noncorporate business, and $15,000 of business income, will see a tax cut of more than $2,600. Their tax bill will fall from what they would pay next year, around $10,982.50, to paying around $8,379 instead—a reduction of $2,603.50. This represents a reduction in their tax bill of nearly 24 percent.* Highlights of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual taxes and sets the rates at 0%, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37% so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,500 and $13,000 under current law to $12,000 and $24,000 for individuals and married couples, respectively. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes – up to $10,000. Gives individuals and families the ability to deduct property taxes and income – or sales – taxes to best fit their unique circumstances. Takes action to support more American families by: Expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. The tax credit is fully refundable up to $1,400 and begins to phase-out for families making over $400,000. Parents must provide a child’s valid Social Security Number in order to receive this credit. This will save honest Americans money by eliminating fraud and abuse of this credit. Preserving the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserving the Adoption Tax Credit so parents can continue to receive additional tax relief as they open their hearts and homes to an adopted child. Preserves the mortgage interest deduction – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. For all homeowners with existing mortgages that were taken out to buy a home, there will be no change to the current mortgage interest deduction. For homeowners with new mortgages on a first or second home, the home mortgage interest deduction will be available up to $750,000. Provides relief for Americans with expensive medical bills by expanding the medical expense deduction for 2017 and 2018 for medical expenses exceeding 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income, and rising to 10 percent beginning in 2019. Continues and expands the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax – providing families with much-needed relief and flexibility to buy the health care that’s right for them if they choose. Maintains the Earned Income Tax Credit to provide important tax relief for low-income Americans working to build better lives for themselves. Improves savings vehicles for education by allowing families to use 529 accounts to save for elementary, secondary and higher education. Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) so Americans can continue to save for their future. Increases the exemption amount from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) to reduce the complexity and tax burden for millions of Americans. Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the amount of the current exemption to reduce uncertainty and costs for many family-owned farms and businesses when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. For job creators of all sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21% (beginning Jan. 1, 2018) – down from 35%, which today is the highest in the industrialized world – the largest reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate in our nation’s history. Delivers significant tax relief to Main Street job creators by: Offering a first-ever 20% tax deduction that applies to the first $315,000 of joint income earned by all businesses organized as S corporations, partnerships, LLCs, and sole proprietorships. For Main Street job creators with income above this level, the bill generally provides a deduction for up to 20% on business profits – reducing their effective marginal tax rate to no more than 29.6%. Establishing strong safeguards so that wage income does not receive the lower marginal effective tax rates on business income – helping to ensure that Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off interest on loans, helping these Main Street entrepreneurs start or expand a business, hire workers, and increase paychecks. Preserves important elements of the existing business tax system, including: Retaining the low-income housing tax credit that encourages businesses to invest in affordable housing so families, individuals, and seniors can find a safe and comfortable place to call home. Preserving the Research & Development Tax Credit that encourages our businesses and workers to develop cutting-edge “Made in America” products and services. Retaining the tax-preferred status of private-activity bonds that are used to finance valuable infrastructure projects. Eliminates the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax, thereby lowering taxes and eliminating confusion and uncertainty so American job creators can focus on growing their business and hiring more workers, rather than on burdensome paperwork. Modernizes our international tax system so America’s global businesses will no longer be held back by an outdated “worldwide” tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation’s job creators. Makes it easier for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. For greater American energy security and economic growth, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Significantly boosts American energy production. Responsible development in the 1002 Area will raise tens of billions of dollars for deficit reduction in the decades to come, while creating thousands of new jobs, reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and helping to keep energy affordable for American families and businesses. *Source.
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) advanced legislation through the House Natural Resources Committee yesterday that will give normal, everyday Americans who like to fish better and more sustainable access to saltwater fishing compared to the current, highly restrictive and outdated federal fisheries management model. His bipartisan bill – the “Regionally Empowered Decision-making for Snapper, Noting the Angling Public and the Preservation of an Exceptional Resource Act”, the “RED SNAPPER Act of 2017” - is a conservation-based approach that will allow states to work with federal fisheries managers to expand access for recreational fishing to 25 miles or to a depth of 150 feet into the Gulf of Mexico. Graves and Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-LA) introduced the bill earlier this year to provide a long term solution to management of red snapper for private recreational anglers in the Gulf. “Changing the management of red snapper allows Gulf states more autonomy in managing this fishery. Fishing pressures are different in the varying regions of our country, and management strategies should be tailored by region For comparison, the West Coast of the United States sees about 5.5 million fishing trips a year, versus 20 million in the gulf coast. And just like there are different management strategy rules for Dungeness Crab or Atlantic Salmon, so should there be for Red Snapper,” said Graves. By preserving existing commercial and charter fishing protections under current law, the RED SNAPPER Act further protects the average angler’s ability to enjoy freshly caught red snapper on a plate at home or in a favorite restaurant. Graves’s Modern Fish Act and two more common-sense amendments were also approved Wednesday as part of broader committee action to reauthorize and modernize the Magnuson-Stevens Act, the fishing law of the land. Passage of these landmark policy changes represent major movement toward regional flexibility, tailored management strategies that favor local over federal control, better data collection and enhanced responsiveness to the needs of recreational anglers and mixed use fisheries. Watch a video of yesterday’s action, which includes a Graves explanation of and fix for a bewildering policy obstacle to Louisiana’s coastal crisis: some areas where there used to be land are now considered “essential fish habitats” and are protected from restoration activity. Graves illustrated the absurdity: “When we come in and restore wetlands in areas where there has been incredible land loss, federal regulators are telling us we have to pay for the impact to fisheries – fisheries that used to be land. But they’re not making the fish pay for the impacts to humans or to our wetlands.” Learn more about the Red Snapper Act of 2017: one pager and FAQ. ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Louisiana Congressmen Garret Graves (R-Capital Region) and Ralph Abraham, M.D. (R-Alto) sent a letter today urging Senator Orrin Hatch, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, and Congressman Kevin Brady, Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means to retain disaster tax relief language in the final product of negotiations currently underway in Washington to resolve differences between House and Senate versions of major tax reform legislation. The disaster tax relief, which was included by Senators Bill Cassidy and John Kennedy in the Senate’s version of the bill, accomplishes the goals of separate legislation Graves introduced earlier this year - H.R. 2849, the Louisiana Flood and Storm Devastation Act of 2017, which would grant homeowners and individuals emergency tax relief, the ability to withdraw from retirement accounts without incurring penalties, casualty loss provisions, work opportunity tax credits for employers, and relief for certain charitable giving. The bipartisan bill was cosponsored by Congressmen Richmond (D-LA), Abraham and Higgins. “We aren’t asking for special treatment,” reiterated Graves. “We’re asking for our flood victims to be given the same, common sense relief that disaster victims in Texas, Florida and Puerto Rico were granted after disaster struck those communities. Too often after disasters, government ends up getting in the way of recovery – this is a chance to actually help recovery and remove nonsensical penalties currently imposed on victims for wanting to take care of themselves.” Dr. Abraham added, “Louisiana flood victims deserve equal access to disaster tax benefits that have been afforded to other states. Our people are still recovering from two historic floods we suffered last year, and this tax relief will go a long way toward facilitating that recovery.” Louisiana Congressmen Clay Higgins and Mike Johnson also signed the letter, which can be read here. You can read more about H.R. 2849 here. ###
12.05.2017	Baton Rouge, La — Congressman Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge) is pleased to announce that Evan Goldsmith, a senior at Catholic High School in Baton Rouge, is the 2017 winner of the Congressional App Challenge from the Sixth Congressional District. Goldsmith’s app, “The Schedule Tracker” was created to scan student ID’s and provide an interactive map of their campuses and their class schedules. It also allows students to scan a friend’s ID to compare schedules and class location. “Due to the size of many campuses, a majority of young students often find themselves struggling to make it to class on time and I hope this app will help them succeed as students,” Goldsmith said. The Congressional App Challenge is a national competition aimed at encouraging U.S. students to learn how to code by creating their own application. The challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. “We were blown away by the creative ideas and programming used to create these apps. These students are the future leaders of Louisiana and I would like to thank everyone who submitted apps and encourage them to continue to generate new ideas on how to improve the lives of people across the globe, said Graves. Rep. Graves surprised Goldsmith at his school today to announce that he won this year’s competition. This was the first year for students in the 6th District to participate and Graves’ office had over 30 apps submitted. A panel of five judges helped select the winners: Dr. Judy Wornat, LSU Dean of Engineering, Nathan Cotton, Interim President of Louisiana Science Teacher Association, Charlie D’Agastino, Executive Director of LSU Innovation Park, Beth O’Quinn, Talent Manager, Louisiana Client Innovation Center at IBM Corporation and Chris Kimmel, Director of Application Development at Sparkhound. Rep. Graves also stopped by Lee Magnet High School to congratulate the second and third place winners. There was a tie for second place and those apps are “Stay Alive” by Fikir Gebremedhin, an app designed to help teens deal with mental disorders and “Seizure Alert” by Scott Butler and Blake Swan, which was created to help those with seizures alert others during a seizure attack. Three apps also tied for third place: “Brella” an app created by Alan Thurman, Max Morris and Saugat Ghimire focusing on helping those find homes or a place to stay after a natural disaster, “Little Library Tracker” by Margaret Stewart that enables others to find and share books, and "Keys to My Health ” by Raven Dickenson that allows those with diabetes to enter and track their numbers and plan a healthy meal plan based on those results. Goldsmith, as first place winner from Congressman Graves’ district will receive a $250 credit in Amazon Web Services, his app displayed in the U.S. Capitol and on the house.gov website (10 million visitors a year). He will also receive an invitation to the House of Code, a reception in Spring 2018 at the U.S. House of Representatives in Washington, DC. Congressman Graves remains committed to generating new resources and initiatives for students to get involved with the STEM industry. Added Graves, “We must invest in a well-educated STEM workforce. Technology continues to evolve and we need to encourage our students to venture into the computer sciences to help further economic growth and innovation in our region and to remain competitive.”
12.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressmen Garret Graves (R-LA) and Tim Walz (D-MN) recently introduced legislation to prevent Army Pvt. Bowe Bergdahl from being awarded any back pay or allowances from the United States Army. Last month, Bergdahl pled guilty to desertion and misbehavior rather than face trial for leaving his post while deployed to Afghanistan in 2009. He will not serve any jail time, and the Army is currently reviewing the issue of awarding Bergdahl back pay. Under current Army regulation, Bergdahl’s status was “absent from his post without authority” for the one day he abandoned his post. After being captured by the Taliban, his detainment is classified as “missing-captured,” a time period for which the Army may decide to award him with back pay and allowances. President Obama made the decision to exchange five Guantanamo Bay detainees for Bergdahl in 2014. “Bergdahl’s actions put the lives of countless service members in jeopardy and directly caused serious injuries that many will live with for the rest of their lives. The idea of Bergdahl receiving any back pay is absurd – those funds should go to the service members and families affected by the search that followed his desertion. Putting others in harm’s way is something the Army should take very seriously, which is why I recently joined many colleagues in requesting the Army not award Bergdahl any back pay. Additionally, we introduced this legislation to prohibit funds from being awarded to Bergdahl for his time detained. Under our legislation, those funds would instead be redirected to the service members who bravely searched for Bergdahl,” says Graves. The bill has bipartisan support including co-sponsor Congressman Tim Walz of Minnesota, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs. "To succeed and return home safely, our men and women in uniform count on each other to do their jobs and entrust in each other their lives," Walz said. “This legislation is the least we can do to honor the brave service members who risked their lives in search of Mr. Bergdahl." The term “absent from his post without authority” doesn’t properly convey the seriousness of this offense. Graves added, “The U.S. military represents the very best of our country. Bergdahl’s decision to abandon his post is an insult to his fellow service members and should not be rewarded in any manner.” ###
12.01.2017	Washington, DC – A series of bipartisan federal disaster policy changes authored by Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) – including a fix to the duplication of benefits problem plaguing many Louisiana flood and other disaster victims – were approved yesterday by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in sweeping FEMA reform legislation. H.R. 4460, “The Disaster Recovery Reform Act” (DRRA), which was unanimously approved by the committee, makes critical reforms to FEMA’s disaster response and recovery programs to provide on-the-ground help and to cut through bureaucracies when disaster strikes so that families, individuals, civic organizations, small businesses, state and local governments, and others in our communities can better prepare for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against floods, hurricanes and disasters of all kinds. The DRRA represents an important move toward the federal government taking a more proactive approach to disaster preparation, relief and recovery – a policy shift that Graves has long advocated. The bill is expected to be voted on by the full U.S. House of Representatives in December. “This is one of the most significant disaster recovery and preparedness bills in decades,” said Graves. “The legislation truly captures and takes action on the frontline feedback and lessons learned from our August flood, recent hurricanes and other events. This is the way Congress is supposed to work.” “It is critical we as a Nation do everything in our power to help communities struggling to recover from disasters, but in doing so we must ensure we are building more resilient communities that are better prepared for when the next disaster strikes,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR). Below are a handful of Graves’s policies included in the bill: Graves-Richmond “duplication of benefits” legislation – DRRA includes the text of H.R. 4438, introduced by Congressmen Graves and Richmond, which eliminates the flawed “duplication of benefits” policy that prevents Louisiana flood survivors from gaining access to Restore Louisiana grants. As many as 10,000 Louisiana flood victims will be able to access the federally-funded Restore Louisiana grants administered by the state. The policy will also benefit hard hit areas like Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. Graves-Richmond streamlines flood mitigation – The Graves/Richmond amendment also clarifies the flexibility to states and local governments to complete much needed flood mitigation projects, like the Comite River Diversion Canal. Under the provision, FEMA hazard mitigation funds are clearly authorized to complete Army Corps of Engineers flood, drainage, coastal and hurricane projects. The congressional delegation has appropriated nearly $300,000,000 in federal funds to the state for hazard mitigation projects such as the Comite project. Building Back Faster and Smarter – H.R. 4460 establishes a new program where rebuilding and recovery efforts can include resilient construction to help prevent repetitive losses and to prepare for future disasters – ultimately saving taxpayer dollars. The bill also funds a “surge” of building inspectors to help address permitting and assessment activities that typically delay rebuilding and recovery. Proactive Resilience – Rather than waiting for disaster to strike, the bill creates a new fund to address resilience projects (i.e. flood control, hurricane protection, elevating structures, etc.) before floods and hurricanes strike. This proactive shift will help to complete stalled Corps of Engineers projects and advance federal-state-local partnerships in preventing disaster losses and the loss of life. The legislation also provides financial incentives for states and local governments that make resilience investments to prevent flooding and other losses. Food banks and Long-term Recovery Groups – The committee unanimously adopted the Graves amendment requiring FEMA to more closely collaborate with food banks like the Greater Baton Rouge Area Food Bank, St. Vincent de Paul, and Long-term Recovery Groups like Rebuild Louisiana, Samaritan’s Purse, and others. The amendment also makes food banks eligible for FEMA repair assistance. Arbitration for Local Governments – Another Graves amendment was unanimously adopted that restores the arbitration process at FEMA that will help facilitate more rapid reimbursement to local governments that are delayed and denied due to FEMA resistance or inconsistent policies. Arbitration creates an independent, quasi-judicial, balanced, objective process to resolve lingering, costly disputes that stymie recovery. In many cases, our local governments cannot afford the legal costs of fighting FEMA. This amendment provides a quick and fair resolution process to resolve disagreements that delay disaster recovery. Submerged Roads – FEMA Public Assistance for inundated and submerged roads is highly inconsistent and frequently arbitrary, which leads to confused efforts to repair or replace much needed roads damaged by floodwaters, like the significant number of damaged roads in Livingston, Ascension, East Feliciana, East Baton Rouge and Iberville Parishes. This amendment requires FEMA to work with the Federal Highway Administration to develop a consistent, reliable, reasonable policy to cover damages to our roadways. Proof of Insurance – Katrina survivors receiving federal assistance are required to obtain and maintain flood insurance. FEMA requires Louisiana to act as the flood insurance police for those receiving this assistance – a job clearly outside the bounds of state responsibility – or FEMA will penalize the state for failing to enforce. The Graves "proof of insurance" maintains a reasonable insurance requirement while removing the bureaucratic, legacy Katrina mandate. Added at the state’s request, the amendment could save the state nearly $100 million in FEMA reimbursements. The Disaster Recovery Reform Act also includes these critical Graves-supported provisions: Pets and Service Animals – the bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to engage veterinary schools, like the LSU School of Veterinary Medicine, to develop emergency teams to launch with first responders during disasters. These specialized teams will help to train emergency managers and work to take care of service animals and others affected by disasters. In many cases, we saw animals abandoned in the 2016 floods. Eliminate Duplicative Applications – DRRA requires FEMA and other agencies work to implement a streamlined process whereby disaster victims can provide information one time to a federal agency rather than having to apply multiple times to multiple agencies for disaster assistance. FEMA Transparency – FEMA is required to establish an online system that discloses disaster costs, contracts and other activities to help improve accountability and prevent fraud. I-12 “Wall” – H.R. 4460 requires FEMA to collaborate with the Federal Highway Administration to develop policy on the design, construction and repair of evacuations routes like I-12 in Baton Rouge and Livingston Parish. The agencies must factor risks to flood vulnerability and the ability to effectively manage contraflow operations, among other criteria. This policy will help to make the necessary changes to the interstate barrier and drainage to facilitate evacuations and road usage during floods. FEMA assistance for Houses of Worship – Without fail, some of the most reliable, generous agents of recovery are the many churches in the Capital Region. Graves pushed hard for the H.R. 4460 provision that qualifies houses of worship and faith-based non-profits for FEMA assistance to repair, restore or replace when they are damaged. Assistance to Survivors with Disabilities – Current law allows individuals up to $33,300 in FEMA assistance. H.R. 4460 includes a Graves-supported provision that will extend FEMA assistance above this amount to repair or replace damaged accessibility features for individuals with disabilities. During the August 2016 flood, Congressman Graves’ office worked closely with the autistic community and Trach Mommas of Louisiana to address their specific disaster needs. This provision addresses a number of problems identified in those efforts. Localized Management of MHUs and Temporary Housing – H.R. 4460 authorizes states to develop regional, customized recovery housing options. This departure from FEMA’s one-size-fits-all policy will allow states to decide the best options for temporary housing solutions and will position local communities for a greater role in developing the right recovery options for South Louisiana. This provision addresses the flaws in future Shelter-at-Home type programs to provide housing to disaster victims and will help save taxpayer dollars by preventing the excessive funding spent on out of state mobile homes. The march toward FEMA reform and improved disaster recovery continues. H.R. 4460 follows these important reforms: H.R. 1679, the “FEMA Accountability, Modernization and Transparency Act” – This Rep. Garret Graves bill became law on November 13, 2017. It creates an online portal for applicants to access their FEMA accounts for timely updates on and greater efficiency in disaster assistance funding. The law also facilitates important communication among federal, state and local jurisdictions to speed disaster recovery. H.R. 1678 – Rep. Lois Frankel’s bill requires FEMA to more quickly close out lingering public assistance projects. The delay adds cost to public assistance applicants like schools and libraries that are anxious to conclude recovery. H.R. 1117 – Rep. Vicky Hartzler’s bill became law in October. It calls on FEMA to reverse their illogical disaster management procedure of deploying and redeploying disaster personnel every few weeks, which results in disruption, confusion, frustration, misunderstanding, mistakes and delay in recovery efforts. The law also requires FEMA to maintain continuity of record keeping, which currently creates an environment of disruption, confusion, frustration, misunderstanding, mistakes and delay in recovery efforts. H.R. 3179, the “Disaster Assistance Fairness and Accountability Act” – this Rep. Thomas MacArthur bill passed in committee and awaits full consideration by the House of Representatives. The bill prohibits FEMA from taking any action to recoup disaster assistance from an individual after more than three years since receiving the assistance. The bill would force FEMA to conduct their due diligence more responsibly and efficiently and leave survivors to their rebuilding efforts. Click the image below to watch a T&I Committee-produced video of Rep Graves talking more about the bill. Read more about the DRRA here.
11.27.2017	Washington, DC – A bill authored by Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) to directly address the frustrations disaster victims experience regarding the status of federal assistance administered through FEMA, was signed into law by President Trump last week. Graves worked with local flood victims and parish and state officials to address these challenges through legislation. “It’s just wrong that disaster victims are often re-victimized by FEMA inefficiencies,” said Graves. “Here we are in the 21st Century, living private lives that revolve around technology – yet interacting with the government is like going back in time. Flood victims still have to dial an 800 number, sit on hold and wait for one of the hundreds of FEMA call center employees to search a database to get an update on a claim’s status. The process is filled with uncertainty, is expensive and leaves taxpayers feeling extraordinarily frustrated.” Graves’ H.R. 1679, the FEMA Accountability, Modernization and Transparency Act of 2017 requires the agency to modernize its grant management system and provide secure online access to applicants. It would ensure FEMA’s improvement efforts include robust applicant accessibility and transparency measures. Graves continued, “This bill would also bridge the current information gap between state and local government efforts that undermines their ability to complement federal recovery programs. This does not pass even the most basic common sense test. Gathering and sharing information on response and recovery work is a basic management principle and serves only to improve efficient execution of overall efforts.” Rep. Graves is a leading voice in the effort to modernize the federal government and a number of his technology solutions have made significant progress, including his FEMA Modernization, Accountability and Transparency Act, the Innovation in Offshore Leasing Act and a provision in the FAST Act that encouraged better application of technologies to improve traffic systems – which was signed into law. This year he was invited to the White House to participate in the president’s American Technology Council, accompanying CEOs from Amazon, Microsoft and other companies at the forefront of tech-innovation. Graves is also a member of Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s innovation working group, which exists to identify legislative opportunities to innovate how the government operates to improve its performance.
11.20.2017	Graves Applauds White House Concurrence on Disaster Funding for Flood Control and Schools “One lesson we are sharing is ‘never give up’, whether that means the struggle to recover or the fight for resources. We will fight for these resources" (Washington, DC) —Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) issued the following statement on the White House’s request for supplemental disaster appropriations: “After countless meetings with White House, HUD, FEMA and Congressional leaders since August 2016, I am encouraged by the Trump Administration’s proposal to use CDBG funds for flood mitigation and other funds for school rebuilding costs. And I will work with other Members of Congress to ensure that our state is best positioned to secure these funds to advance our recovery.” On November 17, the White House Office of Management and Budget submitted a request for disaster supplemental appropriations that includes, among other items, a request for $12 billion for flood mitigation projects and $1.235 billion in school repairs not covered by FEMA. The funds are proposed to be administered through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program and the Hurricane Education Account respectively. “We have been saying from the beginning that Louisiana’s two billion recovery dollars should be made available to fund the Comite River Diversion Canal and the shortfall in school repairs. It is gratifying that the administration agrees with this strategy, but now is the time for sharp elbows to get the dollars we need to complete our recovery,” Graves said. Flood mitigation (p. 45). The Comite River Diversion Canal is estimated to cost $212 million to complete. Any combination of funds from federal CDBG, federal Hazard Mitigation, state capital outlay, Corps of Engineers and Amite River Basin Commission funds are enough to substantially complete, if not totally complete, the project. The White House proposal offers an obvious choice for Louisiana to compete for all necessary resources to ensure total funding and timely completion. School repair (p.28). Potentially a major step to help Capital Region school systems that are struggling to rebuild from the August 2016 floods because of FEMA’s draconian reimbursement policies. If enacted, this policy will result in more funding for school damages, quicker and complete recovery, and returning our students to a safe learning environment. Many Capital Area public school districts are denied necessary public assistance funding due to FEMA’s strict implementation of federal flood insurance reimbursement rules. School campuses that flood are penalized $500,000 per building, instead of $500,000 per campus. This means a maintenance shed and t-building is treated the same as classroom space and athletic facilities. The impact is real. For example, the penalty costs Livingston Parish Schools in Denham Springs is $31.6 million of their estimated $104 million in damages. The cost to Ascension Parish Schools is $11.4 million of their estimated $90 million in damages. Duplication of benefits. The White House proposal is consistent with the recovery efforts proposed in H.R. 4438, the Graves-Richmond bill to waive duplication of benefits prohibitions that prevent disaster survivors from accessing all available recovery resources and communities from accessing all available resiliency resources. Joining Graves and Richmond are members and delegates from Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. “Louisiana rushed to aid Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and to share with them our expertise in flood recovery. I’ve traveled there personally to see the devastation in each of these locations and to work with their congressional delegations. One lesson we are sharing is ‘never give up’, whether that means the struggle to recover or the fight for resources. We will fight for these resources,” Graves said.
11.16.2017	Graves–Richmond File Bill to Solve Onerous “Duplication of Benefits” Penalty “The government is alleging that a loan duplicates a grant. There is absolutely nothing duplicative about a loan and a grant, and they should not be treated the same.” Washington, DC – On Thursday, Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) and Congressman Cedric Richmond (D-South Louisiana) along with other bipartisan co-sponsors, introduced legislation that would authorize the waiver of the "duplication of benefits" policy that has stymied disaster recovery in Louisiana and threatens the same in disaster areas like Texas, Florida, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. Federal disaster policy - the Stafford Act - prohibits the duplication of federal funds for the same purpose. Agencies like Housing and Urban Development will deny recovery grants to survivors who qualified for Small Business Administration disaster loans because the agency wrongly treats a loan as a duplicative benefit - even if the survivor does not accept the loan. The Graves-Richmond bill provides for the waiver of this policy upon the request of a state government. The bill also allows flexibility to states and local governments to complete much needed flood mitigation projects by clarifying the use of federal funds to complete Army Corps of Engineers flood, drainage, coastal and hurricane projects. “The real disaster in federal disaster policy is the allegation that a loan is a grant. Survivors are constantly urged by FEMA and SBA officials to apply for loans immediately after the event -- maybe the most stressful moments in their lives -- without any expectation of possible grants. Then when grants are available, these survivors are denied. It is inappropriate to bait and switch like this. It is also ridiculously inefficient to delay resources that could otherwise be used for disaster recovery,” said Graves. "We have got to get people back on their feet, businesses reopened, and our community fully restored. We do that by giving states flexibility to take charge of their own disaster recovery. Our bill also looks at ways to further improve upon the federal dollars we have provided - several billion dollars for the August flood - and to ensure that the money is invested in true recovery priorities, flood protection and control projects, and drainage projects. We need to get the best return on these federal dollars.” The bill was introduced today and cosponsored by: Cong. McCaul (TX), Plaskett (USVI), Gonzales-Colon (PR), Culberson (TX), Webster (FL), Babin (TX) Higgins (LA), Carter (TX), Crist (FL), and Weber (TX). ###
11.16.2017	Congressman Garret Graves, (R-South Louisiana) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (H.R. 1). “Today's historic vote to modernize our tax code will help hardworking Louisianans keep more of their paychecks. The bill also strips loopholes, bailouts and handouts while improving the global competitiveness of U.S. small businesses and employers. This will improve the health of the economy, increase wages and create more employment opportunities in Louisiana and other states. All income brackets are reduced by the legislation and the standard deduction is nearly doubled. To put this in perspective, the average American family of four making $55,000 will pay no taxes. This is a huge win and I look forward to working together to continue to address priorities and help to perfect the bill through the legislative process. Specifically, we need to ensure students and retirees are treated fairly and that the value of a reformed historic and new market credit program is considered. After 31 years, we are finally on track to have fair, simple and lower taxes.”
10.10.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) offered legislation during a House Natural Resources Committee markup that would designate Cajuns as an endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA), a federal law that provides for the conservation of species that are endangered or threatened throughout all or a significant portion of their range, and the conservation of the ecosystems on which they depend. Graves explained: “Right now the federal government is managing the Mississippi River system in a way that is causing the greatest coastal wetlands loss on the North American continent. We’ve lost approximately 2,000 square miles of our coast. It is the federal government’s actions causing this land loss, and it’s been happening over the past eighty years. These are coastal wetlands and some of the most productive habitat in the North American continent, and it happens to be where Cajuns primarily live in South Louisiana. We have been trying to aggressively move out a multi-billion restoration and protection plan and now we have the federal government obstructing our efforts. For example, the Corps of Engineers and the National Marine Fisheries Service are telling us that it is going to take five years to get an environmental restoration project approved, while we have nearly a billion dollars just sitting in the bank. If being an endangered species actually affords you additional protection and allows your habitat to be restored then that is what we want. Our habitat is disappearing and I don’t understand why animals get better treatment than people. Our amendment designates Cajuns as an endangered species so we can be afforded those same protections and has the federal government working with us and not against us.” ####
08.08.2017	Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) issued the following statement today after the Housing and Urban Development Department (HUD) provided the state of Louisiana some flexibility with respect to how federal disaster relief funding can be spent in response to the Great Flood of 2016, as requested by Graves and other Louisiana officials: “No two disasters are alike, and each recovery has its own unique challenges and needs. Mother Nature didn’t refer to the manual or use a formula to determine who would get how much flood damage last August – this historic flood disaster treated all its victims the same. It doesn’t make sense to apply a static formula to try to recover from dynamic disasters. That’s why went to work immediately in the days following the flood asking the former HUD Secretary to grant the LMI waiver,” he said. In 2016 Graves urged the Secretary of HUD to exercise the department's discretion to waive the federal requirement to apply 70 percent of CDBG-DR to low-to-moderate income (LMI) households. Secretary Carson's announcement honors this request by applying the LMI requirement to 50 percent of households, thereby allowing the State greater latitude to administer Restore Louisiana benefits. Graves continued, “We are pleased that Secretary Carson and his team have granted these waivers to give additional flexibility to the RESTORE Task Force, which should ultimately mean greater relief for our community by expanding help to as many people who flooded as possible. The flood didn't discriminate against flood victims. Neither should the government. The countless meetings, letters, phone calls and conversations we’ve undertaken to secure the more than $2 billion in federal funding and to provide the state of Louisiana the flexibility it needs to best use those resources have been effective – and we won’t stop now. We’ll keep fighting for our flooded friends, neighbors and families across Louisiana until our recovery is complete.” ###
08.01.2017	LIVINGSTON, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (LA-06) today announced he will host a “Conversation with Congressman Graves” town hall meeting on Thursday, August 3, beginning at 6:30 p.m. in the Livingston Parish Library, Albany-Springfield branch. “My job is to represent the people of South Louisiana, which works best when we are communicating. It is important that folks come out to the Albany/Springfield Library this Thursday to share ideas, ask questions, express frustrations, and discuss important topics,” said Graves. Congressman Graves will take questions on the important issues facing the people of South Louisiana and provide updates on activities in Congress. Additionally, members of Graves’ staff will be available to assist residents who are experiencing difficulties with government agencies such as the IRS, FEMA, Social Security Administration, Veterans Affairs, the State Department, Restore Louisiana or any other government agency. WHAT: Conversation with Congressman Garret Graves WHEN: Thursday, August 3, 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. WHERE: Livingston Parish Library, Albany-Springfield branch 26941 LA-43, Hammond, La. (Just south of I-12) For questions, please contact Representative Graves’ Baton Rouge district office at (225) 442-1731 or his Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-3901.
07.31.2017	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (LA-06) has introduced bi-partisan legislation with Congressmen Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Randy Weber (R-TX), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Lacy Clay (D-MO), Clay Higgins (R-LA), Steve Palazzo (R-MS), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Bradley Byrne (R-AL) in the U.S. House of Representatives addressing a long term solution to management of red snapper for private recreational anglers in the Gulf of Mexico. The bill titled, “Regionally Empowered Decision-making for Snapper, Noting the Angling Public and the Preservation of an Exceptional Resource Act” or the “RED SNAPPER Act of 2017” is a conservation-based approach that will allow states to work with federal fisheries managers to expand access to as much as 25 miles into the Gulf for recreational fishing. “While NOAA has granted 39 additional days this year for red snapper fishing in federal waters, the issue of a long term solution remains. As the stock has rebuilt, recreational anglers have unfairly seen fewer and fewer fishing days. Something has to change. It is time to replace the status quo with a management system that more accurately reflects today’s red snapper private recreational fishery,” said Graves. This legislation is based on depth- and-distance based management informed by additional, more-accurate science and data from Gulf States. The bill allows states to continue to set seasons within their territorial waters of 9 nautical miles while also empowering the states to set seasons within a new area from 9 miles to 25 fathoms in depth (150 feet) or 25 miles, whichever is the greater distance. Concentrating effort in areas within 25 miles of shore or less than 25 fathoms will preserve the fishery since the bulk of the red snapper stock lives in waters deeper than 150 feet. It will also allow for improved catch and release survival rates since research indicates snapper caught in less than 150 feet of water have a much better chance of living when released than those caught from deeper waters. The bill builds in additional layers of conservation by requiring NOAA Fisheries work with the states to expand the use of devices that can help increase catch and release survival rates. It also requires NOAA Fisheries to work with states to approve state-based data collection and management programs, such as Louisiana’s La Creel Survey, which are providing much more accurate information than NOAA’s existing recreational management approach. “Without legislation, private recreational anglers are likely facing an extremely limited, if not obsolete, federal season next year. Most importantly, it begins to bring stability to the private recreational fishery by incorporating much more accurate data from Gulf-state fisheries agencies. The best managed commercial and recreational fisheries in the country are managed by Gulf States. It’s long past time for them to have much more say in how red snapper are managed for recreational anglers.” The Red Snapper Act of 2017 one pager The Red Snapper Act of 2017 FAQ
07.26.2017	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (LA-06) announced today that the Sixth District will participate in the third Congressional App Challenge (CAC), a high school app competition designed to engage student’s creativity and encourage their participation in computer science. Students, individually or in teams, are tasked with creating, coding, and implementing a new and innovative computer application. “I want to encourage students across south Louisiana who have any interest in coding, computer science and technology to jump into this opportunity to practice and hone their skills. We’re excited to see the talent across our District on display and look forward to engaging with – and learning a thing or two – from some our brightest young constituents. The Challenge will run from July 26th through November 1, 2017. The competition is open to all students who meet the eligibility requirements, regardless of coding experience. We strongly encourage students of all skill levels to participate and to learn how to create their own apps. Winners will be selected by a panel of judges and be given Congressional recognition for their achievements in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) and Computer Science. Their apps will be featured on a display in the US Capitol in Washington D.C., on house.gov, and on the Congressional App Challenge website. The CAC was created because Congress recognized that STEM and computer-based skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. By some estimates, the US may be short by many as a million programmers by 2020. These are high-paying, high-demand jobs. To maintain American competitiveness, it’s crucial that the United States invests in our youth now, and helps them acquire these valuable skills. The CAC encourages students to pursue those skills and recognizes them for their efforts. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit https://garretgraves.house.gov/congressional-app-challenge ###
07.20.2017	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) today announced a grant of $1,330,000 in federal funding from The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to provide ongoing funding through the National Coastal Zone Management Program to the State of Louisiana to help administer the state's federally approved coastal management program. “With the encroachment of the Gulf of Mexico on the coast of Louisiana, we have seen the exacerbated flooding that comes inland from hurricanes such as Katrina, Rita, Ike and Gustav. We can see that there is a direct relationship between our coastal loss and our increased vulnerability. So we have to aggressively move forward and make sure we continue to fund these programs.” The National Coastal Zone Management Program comprehensively addresses the nation’s coastal issues through a voluntary partnership between the federal government and coastal and Great Lakes states and territories that protects, restores, and responsibly develops our nation's coastal communities and resources by balancing economic development, coastal uses, and natural resource protection. NOAA's investment of more than $5.3M over the last two years is leveraging over $4.3M in state funds which will in turn support jobs and provide continued assistance to the Louisiana coastal management program to address many important coastal issues in the state including coastal hazards, habitat protection and restoration, and water quality. ####
06.30.2017	Washington DC - Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) introduced bi-partisan legislation in the US House of Representatives this week to modernize a core function of congressional office operations and streamline customer service for constituents – H.R. 3076, the Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Services (CASES) for Constituents Act of 2017. The CASES Act would give constituents the option to electronically authorize their Members of Congress to engage a federal agency on their behalf – a federally-required privacy protection process currently done on paper. Rep. Graves introduced CASES as part of his ongoing initiative to advance solutions to government inefficiencies through technology and innovation. Graves continued: “After Louisiana’s historic flooding last fall, we were all-hands-on-deck to field the thousands of calls from flood victims in need of help. It was embarrassing to have to tell people who literally just lost everything – including their printers and internet – that the law requires them to print and fax, scan, or mail in a sheet of paper authorizing us to speak to FEMA or any other agency before we could do anything. So, we immediately started efforts to identify the problem and how to fix it.” The Privacy Act of 1974 requires that Members of Congress or their staff have written authorization before they can obtain information about an individual's case. Currently, constituents in need of assistance to resolve issues with a the VA, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid or other federal agencies must physically print, sign and fax, mail or hand deliver a “privacy release form” to their congressional office before the office can take action. This process is archaic, an inconvenience to constituents and can cause unnecessarily delayed issue resolution. “It’s amazing that – in a world where nearly all adult Americans use the internet, 75% of households have broadband access in their homes and more than 80% carry a smartphone – Washington is largely doing its business the same way it did more than a quarter of a century ago,” said Graves. “Compare your experience with FEMA or the VA with what you get from private businesses, and it’s no wonder the federal government’s approval rating is currently lower than any other sector in the United States.” CASES integrates modern technology into a necessary process by allowing people to grant congressional offices electronic authorization, while retaining the option of a paper submission. It would direct the Trump Administration to develop a streamlined and consistent process across all agencies while ensuring the necessary privacy protections stay intact. Rep. Graves is a leading voice in the effort to modernize the federal government and a number of his technology solutions have passed in the House, including his FEMA Modernization, Accountability and Transparency Act, the Innovation in Offshore Leasing Act and a provision in the FAST Act that encouraged better application of technologies to improve traffic systems – which was signed into law. He was recently invited to the White House to participate in the president’s American Technology Council, accompanying CEOs from Amazon, Microsoft and other companies at the forefront of tech-innovation. Graves is also a member of Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s innovation working group, which exists to identify legislative opportunities to innovate how the government operates to improve its performance. Congressman Joe Kennedy (D-MA) joined Graves as an original co-sponsor of the Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Services (CASES) for Constituents Act of 2017. ###
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. - Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves (R-LA) released the following statements regarding today’s proposal by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to rescind the Obama Administration’s flawed Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, and to commence a new rulemaking to better clarify the definition of “waters of the United States”: Shuster: “I commend President Trump and the agencies for moving forward with a repeal of an extremely flawed WOTUS rule. The Obama Administration’s overreaching and ambiguous WOTUS rule is simply an expansion of federal power that threatens to add unnecessary burdens on states and local governments, America’s farmers, manufacturers, businesses, and communities, and property owners across the entire country. We look forward to the EPA and the Corps working in a more collaborative and practical manner to develop a rule that ensures clean water for the Nation, provides needed clarity, takes into account the input of states and local governments, and doesn’t trample the rights of the American people.” Graves: “The Obama Administration’s Waters of the U.S. rule is an egregious jurisdictional overstep that wrongly infringes upon the rights of private property owners, cripples small business owners, and threatens to all but halt economic development projects across the country, particularly in places like South Louisiana. I applaud President Trump for his willingness to bring this rule back to the drawing board and to do it the right way – openly, with input from the most important stakeholder group: the American people.” Last Congress, during the Obama Administration, the House supported bipartisan legislation to require a withdrawal of the WOTUS rule and send the agencies back to engage in outreach to stakeholders, including the states and local governments, and more fully consider all potential impacts before putting forward a new proposed rule. ###
06.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) recently introduced the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Reform Act of 2017 to require the program to do more to connect the unemployed with existing job placement and job training opportunities so that more people who are able to work can. Graves introduced the bill to fight poverty, support families and promote self-sufficiency while helping stem the tide of government dependence. Graves’ legislation builds upon the successful track record of mandatory federal work requirements first established in President Bill Clinton’s 1996 “welfare reform,” taking a similar approach to strengthen the work requirements for “able-bodied adults without dependents” who are food stamp recipients through SNAP. “There are talented people across our country who aren’t pursuing the full potential of their capabilities largely because government incentives make it more profitable in some cases to stay home and collect welfare than to pursue personal growth and responsibility through work,” said Graves. “Government needs to provide a safety net for the vulnerable, but it’s become a lifestyle for some to actively choose government assistance over work – that’s a disservice to those people, the economy and the taxpayer. We have to restructure incentives to achieve the outcomes we want and to get capable people off the sidelines and involved in building America’s future. This bill is a small step toward that goal.” A job is a powerful tool for getting out of poverty and securing long term prosperity. As such, this bill would reinforce the work requirement for certain able bodied adults with no dependents in order to receive SNAP benefits. Specifically, the bill contains the following provisions – · Creates additional opportunities to satisfy the work requirement through a supervised job search. · Reduces the number of SNAP recipients exempt from the work requirement. · Retains state flexibility for exempting certain individuals from the work requirement. In 2015, the U.S. government spent over $1 trillion on means-tested welfare aid, providing cash, food, housing, medical care, and social services to poor and low-income individuals. Graves continued: “Hard times invariably come and when they do, Americans deserve to have peace of mind knowing that there are systems in place to help them get back on their feet – that won’t be the case if the government keeps spending the way it does now. We have to do a better job protecting resources for those truly in need by helping those down on their luck find new opportunities to earn a living.” The food stamp program is the nation’s second largest means-tested welfare program. The number of food stamp recipients has risen dramatically from about 17.2 million in 2000 to 45.8 million in 2015. Costs have risen from $20.7 billion in fiscal year (FY) 2000 to $83.1 billion in FY 2014. A number of states in recent years have instituted similar work requirements, helping more people find jobs and producing dramatic declines in food stamp rolls. Alabama, for example, reinstated SNAP work requirements in 13 counties that were exempted after the economic downturn of 2011-2013. Those counties experienced an 85% drop in food stamp participation and a corresponding decrease in unemployment. In one of those counties, the jobless rate was down 11 points in April 2017 compared to April 2011. If it becomes law, Graves’ Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Reform Act of 2017 would encourage millions of Americans to get back to work, help end the cycle of poverty for millions dependent on government assistance, and save taxpayers billions of dollars over the next decade. ###
06.23.2017	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (LA-06) today announced a grant of $150,000.00, which will be provided through the Department of Transportation to the False River Regional Airport in New Roads, La to be used for runway rehabilitation. According to the Federal Aviation Administration, improvements to the airport will include: This project will fund the design to mill and overlay 5,003 feet of Runway 18/36 to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and to minimize foreign object debris. This project will fund the design to mill and overlay 5,003 feet of the existing parallel taxiway to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and to minimize foreign object debris. “This investment for the False River Regional Airport is great news for the community of New Roads,” said Congressman Graves. “Improving the conditions of the runway is critical to attracting, maintaining, and expanding private investment and economic development in the area.” ###
06.20.2017	Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana)released the following statement today after the U.S. Senate confirmed Brock Long as Administrator for the Federal Emergency Management Agency: “Brock Long brings to this job critical Gulf Coast familiarity and experience, and I look forward to working with him to see Louisiana’s flood recovery through to completion. You simply cannot understand the devastation and unique challenges of Gulf Coast hurricanes, tropical and other storms without having lived it,” said Graves. “Ideally, this confirmation would have happened with enough lead-time to be adequately prepared for the current threat in the Gulf of Mexico, but I am pleased that leadership is now in place so we can continue working to make FEMA more proactive, flexible and responsive to the dynamic needs on the ground after disasters.” Graves and other Louisiana Members in the House sent a letter on June 2 to Senate Minority Leader Schumer urging expeditious confirmation of Long ahead of the 2017 Atlantic Hurricane Season. Read the letter here.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Garret Graves issued the following statement regarding this morning’s shooting of House Majority Whip Steve Scalise and four others in Virginia this morning: “Most importantly, we are thankful that our fellow Louisianian, Steve, is going to recover and remain strong. We will continue to pray for him, his wife Jennifer and kids as he goes through the healing process. We also pray for the staff and others wounded in today's attack. The heroic efforts of the Capitol Police protection detail cannot be overstated – their sacrificial patriotism prevented a massacre. This hero and shero risked their lives to save many others. God Bless them, and we pray for their speedy recovery. Today is sobering and frustrating. It is sobering because it reminds us how quickly these senseless attacks can destroy lives. These can be fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, friends and neighbors. They are not nameless or faceless individuals. The attack is frustrating because I expect that this will ultimately demonstrate that words and rhetoric have consequences. Over the last several months, verbal attacks, divisiveness, and polarization have reached inappropriate and unhealthy levels in our government. Many thoughtlessly lob verbal grenades without considering the consequences. The 435 members of the House represent the great diversity of our amazing nation. We bring these broad perspectives and priorities of our districts together in the House to advance America. It is our job to find common ground and to work together to actually solve problems. We can disagree and have different perspectives without being disagreeable. Sadly, it seems, politics in many cases has devolved into a dehumanized ‎blood sport. Contributing to the problem, many in the media and bloggers have evolved from reporters to editorialists and provokers spreading misinformation and sensationalism. I apologize for any contribution I may have caused. All of us should take a big step back‎ to remember and embrace that above the tags of left, right, liberal, conservative and every title in between – we are FIRST Americans. This bond we share is more important than the politics we don’t. We must work together, from the foundation of our shared love of our country, our heritage and our freedom, to constructively create the America our countrymen and women deserve. Binding up the wounds will take time, but we must start now." ###
06.12.2017	Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) and Congressman Richmond (D-LA) have introduced legislation to help Louisiana flood victims financially recover from the historic flooding events that ravaged the state in 2016. H.R. 2849, the Louisiana Flood and Storm Devastation Act of 2017 is designed to grant homeowners and individuals emergency tax relief, to waive early-withdrawal penalties for flood victims who used retirement savings for their recovery and to create tax incentives that encourage business reinvestment into affected communities. “Too often after disasters, government actually gets in the way of recovery – coming in and compounding the hassle for people struggling to put their lives back together instead of helping them,” said Graves. “This bill is a chance for government to facilitate recovery through relief and financial flexibility so that individuals aren’t penalized for wanting to take care of themselves.” The tax relief provisions in H.R. 2849 would be available to people affected by the 2016 spring and August floods and the tornados in February 2017. Provisions include giving homeowners the ability to withdraw from retirement accounts without incurring penalties, casualty loss provisions, work opportunity tax credits for employers, and relief for certain charitable giving. Louisiana Congressmen Ralph Abraham, M.D. and Clay Higgins were also original co-sponsors of the legislation, whose next step in the legislative process is consideration by the House Ways and Means Committee. You can read the bill here. ###
05.26.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Garret Graves (R - South Louisiana) announced today highlights of the Fiscal Year 2017 “Work Plan” of Corps of Engineers projects in South Louisiana, including $6.7 million for the Comite River Diversion Canal. Using funds made available by the recently enacted Consolidated Appropriations of 2017, the Corps allocated resources to these notable projects: $6.7 million for the Comite River Diversion Canal $500,000 for continued wastewater and environmental improvements in Baton Rouge $500,000 for wastewater improvements in Ascension Parish $450,000 to complete the justification analysis to deepen the Mississippi River to 50 feet, thereby allowing for larger commercial vessels $9 million for continued project construction in the Louisiana Coastal Area (restoration of Coastal Louisiana) “Prior to my first day in Congress, Comite has been a top priority. Since first serving in the House in 2015, Congress has allocated a total of $20.7 million toward the canal. This amount is grossly insufficient to finish the project, but the $20.7 million since 2015 represents the vast majority of funding for the project in the last 10 years, when funding for the project had essentially dried up,” said Graves. “Seeing Comite through to completion is critical to a true, long-term recovery in South Louisiana. Until we address the flood protection problem, lives and property remain at risk.” Graves continued, “With this latest funding stream, the state of Louisiana now has under its control the means by which we can complete the project. Any combination of $20 million in federal appropriations, $87 million capital outlay, $1.7 billion in CDBG-DR, $252 million in hazard mitigation funds, and $14 million in Amite River Basin Commission funds can very easily comprise a financing strategy that could lead to the project’s completion within three-to-four years. The state has the ability to access nearly $2 billion of federal money – it’s time to come together now and finish the job taxpayers have been paying for. It is encouraging that the Corps is finalizing their analysis of deepening the Mississippi River to 50 feet. America's bread basket feeds the world through our ports. The nation is powered by energy that is shipped on our river. Almost every product made in the US is improved by the chemical manufacturing in Louisiana. A deeper river means more product goes to market. More jobs are created. Louisiana's economy improves. America's economy improves. It's that simple. And the rationale to deepen the channel is also just that simple.” He concluded, “I am disappointed there is no funding for the very important West Shore project that would protect our River Parishes. Flood control in Louisiana is incomplete without this very necessary protection.” The USACE FY17 Work Plan and the FY18 Civil Works Budget can be found here: https://www.usace.army.mil/Missions/Civil-Works/Budget/
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Garret Graves (LA-06) and Congressman Cedric Richmond (LA-03) called on U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions to extend for one year the current deadline for the Baton Rouge Area Violence Elimination (“BRAVE”) program to expend the remaining $1.6 million in unused grant dollars set to expire at the end of the summer. The BRAVE project has been credited with reducing crime throughout the Baton Rouge communities by bringing together law enforcement and community and faith organizations. The results of these partnerships and research have resulted in a significant drop in crime. “Because BRAVE has proven success, it’s critical that law enforcement and the community be given additional time to expend these dollars and continue this important work. They have invested a significant amount of time, research, and coordination to ensure these dollars are being wisely and effectively spent. Additionally, law enforcement and the entire community have spent the better part of the last ten months dealing with riots, the shooting of six law enforcement officers in July and the nation’s fourth costliest natural disaster a month later. Throughout this time, the community remains committed to carrying out the mission of the BRAVE program. We are asking DOJ to acknowledge the need for more time to do so in light of these extraordinary circumstances,” said Graves. “The DOJ has to recognize that Baton Rouge has achieved so much while enduring such historic tragedy, and that the year 2017 is when BRAVE follows through, not folds up. Stopping now would also be an historic tragedy.” Read the letter here.
05.17.2017	Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) released the following statement about reports of a memo written by former F.B.I. Director James Comey alleging the president asked him to end the federal investigation into the president's former national security advisor, Michael Flynn: Any situation that gives the appearance of a president putting political pressure, or any pressure, on the Department of Justice to do something or not do something to influence the outcome of a legitimate investigation is very unsettling – which is the exact reason why we raised concerns over the private tarmac meeting between President Clinton and then-Attorney General Lynch while Mrs. Clinton was under federal investigation in 2016. I believe now – as I did then – that learning more about the various claims in circulation is something we certainly need to do. Substantial efforts are currently underway to gather facts and determine the merit of the Flynn, Comey, Russia and other allegations out there – the Senate Intelligence Committee is conducting a bi-partisan investigation, the House Intelligence Committee is conducting a bi-partisan investigation and now the House Committee on Government Oversight and Reform is conducting a third congressional investigation in addition to the FBI’s separate investigation – so there is an appropriate level of attention being put to this. It’s critical to ensure the integrity of these efforts and to limit speculation; a thorough understanding of the facts and findings of these investigations should inform next steps. In the meantime, we have work to do. We still have fundamental problems within the federal government, we still have flood issues in Louisiana to respond to, we still have a coast to restore, we still have roads we need to build, we still have fundamental problems in healthcare, and we still have jobless Louisianans who want to get back to work and who deserve better employment opportunities. We can walk and chew gum and allow for the investigators on these committees and at the FBI do their work while continuing to make progress on the true priorities and challenges in our country, delivering the transformational change in Washington that the American people asked for last November. ###
05.05.2017	Baton Rouge, LA - Congressman Garret Graves (R-Capital Region) announced today that FEMA has issued an additional waiver of the 60-day proof of loss requirement in response to a deadline extension request he sent to FEMA’s Acting Administrator on May 1, 2017. Louisiana victims of the August 2016 flood event now have until September 1, 2017 to provide evidence of losses and to request payment for all covered losses. "This is a small, but important victory for flood survivors who continue to struggle with the painfully frustrating flood insurance process," said Graves. Graves’ office was notified of the additional waiver by the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration. Congressman Graves’ May 1 request can be read here. Today’s notification can be read here. ###
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – Baton Rouge) released the following statement today regarding the Department of Justice’s Alton Sterling decision: We cannot allow the tragic shootings of 2016 or the fallout to define us or our community, but we can learn from those experiences. All loss of life is tragic. We’ve already lost Deputy Brad Garafola, Officer Matthew Gerald, Officer Montrell Jackson and Alton Sterling. Deputy Nick Tullier is an amazing warrior overcoming all obstacles, but his life is forever changed and Deputy Bruce Simmons continues to recover from being shot. Nothing good has resulted from these shootings. Right or wrong, each loss represents a loved one, a friend, a confident, a husband, a community member – a life or part of life suddenly, prematurely, and in many cases, senselessly taken. The abundant evidence in this case –video footage, eyewitness accounts and other sources – faced the extensive scrutiny of both President Obama’s Department of Justice and the current Administration’s. Due to the prolific evidence, this decision should have been issued sooner; however, we trust that this decision is the product of a meticulous and fair investigation. The Capital Region has endured tremendous hardship – this tragedy, an ambush attack on law enforcement, historical flooding and the recent fatal shooting of a Baton Rouge Deputy. We now have two choices: 1) We can come together as a community, be neighbors and lift one another up as we did in the August flood, or 2) We can, once again, go down the path of violence, death and loss. Only one makes sense. I was born and raised in the Baton Rouge area. What I experienced on July 17 when our officers were shot was unrecognizable. It was like we were in a foreign country – not home. An outsider spread his evil and hatred here. Someone from out of state hijacked our community. While Baton Rouge has its share of imperfections, we are better than that. From here, let’s work with our new mayor to convert the city we have into the city we want. I urge our community to continue to pray for the victims and their families and to pray for peace and understanding. ###
05.02.2017	Today Congressman Garret Graves (LA-06) commended the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) vote to unanimously keep the shrimping anti-dumping trade enforcement orders in place for five more years against China, India, Thailand and Vietnam. The orders on Brazil were revoked, but imports from Brazil are minimal. "The ITC made the right decision in ensuring our commercial fishers can continue to compete fairly and put fresh, wild Gulf seafood on America's table. We have watched for years as foreign countries have increasingly tried to run our fishers out of business by illegally subsidizing and dumping foreign, farmed shrimp on American markets. We were proud to testify before the ITC to advocate for Louisiana's fishermen and women and commend the commission's action,” said Graves. ####
04.07.2017	Congressman Garret Graves (R-Louisiana) made the following statement regarding the United States' launching of 59 Tomahaw missles targeting an airbase in Syria believed to be associated with this week's chemical weapons attack on civilains by Bashar al-Assad's regime: "While military action must be reserved for last resort and other extraordinary conditions, it is encouraging to finally see America's words, once again, mean something. To be taken seriously in the global community, we must enforce red lines. Our words must be followed with action. Years of empty threats and passive behavior have only emboldened the Assad regime, Russia and others to push boundaries and carry out senseless violence without penalty. The repeated atrocities of the Assad regime using supposedly-destroyed chemical weapons has resulted in tragic loss of life. The missile strikes in Syria have weakened Assad's capabilities and made it clear that there is a price to pay for poisoning innocent civilians. It also sends a clear signal to both our allies and rogue regimes that America is back." ###
03.31.2017	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (R – Capital Region) announced today that the state of Louisiana will receive word this afternoon that HUD is releasing $1.65 billion for flood recovery. This amount is the sum of the $438 million and $1.22 billion approved by Congress in September and December 2016. Per the state's request, HUD held $438 million until the agency could approve the state's spending plan for $1.22 billion – delaying financial assistance to flood victims. Reacting to the news that the state requested HUD to hold the $438 million, Congressman Graves stated: “This is a blatant violation of the honor code.” ###
03.29.2017	Washington, DC – A bill offered by Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) to directly address the frustrations disaster victims experience regarding the status of federal assistance administered through FEMA earned approval today by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, moving it one step closer to passage in the House of Representatives. Graves worked with local flood victims and parish and state officials to address challenges through legislation, and his bill was one of three that passed through the committee this morning – all of which are designed to improve FEMA’s performance. “It’s just wrong that disaster victims are often re-victimized by FEMA inefficiencies,” said Graves. “Here we are in the 21st Century, living private lives that revolve around technology – yet interacting with the government is like going back in time. Flood victims still have to dial an 800 number, sit on hold and wait for one of the hundreds of FEMA employees to search a database to get an update on a claim’s status. The process is filled with uncertainty, is expensive and leaves taxpayers feeling extraordinarily frustrated.” Graves’ H.R. 1679, the FEMA Accountability, Modernization and Transparency Act of 2017 would require the agency to modernize its grant management system and provide secure online access to applicants. It would ensure FEMA’s improvement efforts include robust applicant accessibility and transparency measures. Graves continued, “This bill would also bridge the current information gap between state and local government efforts that undermines their ability to complement federal recovery programs. This does not pass even the most basic common sense test. Gathering and sharing information on response and recovery work is a basic management principle and serves only to improve efficient execution of overall efforts.” The committee further approved a Graves amendment to another FEMA bill, H.R. 1665, which is also making its way to the House floor. His amendment would ensure that FEMA considers the cumulative regional impact of recent disasters when making a recommendation to the president for a current major declaration and would address situations faced by states when back-to-back disasters occur. Louisiana recently experienced this challenge when a string of tornadoes tore through multiple communities, including some that were impacted by the historic flood in 2016. “In states like Louisiana where in the last 11 years we’ve endured Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav, Ike and Isaac, record high water on the Mississippi River and other natural disasters – a lot can happen in a short amount of time. Sometimes FEMA needs to look at these disasters cumulatively,” said Graves. The committee additionally approved H.R. 1678, which is co-sponsored by Graves and puts a 3-year limit on FEMA’s ability to approach disaster victims with attempts to recover disaster assistance payments. ###
03.24.2017	Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) issued the following statement after legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act was pulled from the House floor on Friday: "This is disappointing. Instead of progressing real healthcare reform, much of the last several weeks devolved into fact-less, partisan noise. We are all now left with a broken system that interferes with personal choice, forces people to buy unaffordable insurance, makes us pay these surging insurance premiums and higher deductibles and that puts government at the center of healthcare instead of patients and doctors. Numbers don’t lie, and the numbers show that the current system is financially unsustainable. So even if you like your Obamacare, you can’t keep it. We have to find ways to fix what’s broken. I remain committed to that and will keep working to make insurance more affordable, care more accessible and the government less involved with our doctor-patient relationships." ### Get the latest from Rep. Graves by liking his Facebook page.
03.17.2017	Graves Statement Regarding the State of Louisiana's Announcement That They Are Restarting Flood Relief Contract Solicitation Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – Capital Region) released the following statement about the State of Louisiana's announcement that they are restarting flood relief contract solicitation: This is very disappointing news. This will further delay the allocation of badly-needed flood relief funds that we appropriated in September. It is impossible to explain to flood victims why $1.6 billion in recovery dollars are stuck in the bureaucracy while homes remain gutted, moldy and un-insulated. This also further challenges our efforts in Congress to provide additional flood relief dollars when not a penny of September funding has been allocated to flood victims. On August 19th, I urged that a contractor be hired to administer this program. Taking away $250 million or more from flood victims and giving it contractors to administer this program and to take seven months or more to get the money out the door further victimizes our flood survivors. This has nothing to do with politics; it is just frustrating and sloppy. Finally, anyone that attempts to blame these delays on the federal systems lacks a fundamental understanding of the process and opportunities to expedite flood relief.
03.03.2017	US Congressman Graves (R – South Louisiana) released the following statement regarding the decision by the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals to affirm a 2015 ruling dismissing the Southeast Louisiana Flood Protection Authority-East suit: "The appeals court's decision to dismiss the suit -- just like the district court did -- was the right decision under the law. This has been nothing more than a distraction to flood protection and coastal restoration efforts. Anyone that takes the time to read the legal contract between the flood board and the trial lawyers will quickly recognize this is one of the worst contracts for taxpayers in Louisiana history. It never should have been approved. While liability may exist, this is neither the way to solve the problem nor the people to solve it. It is far-time to end this ill-informed treasure hunt and spend time on more constructive efforts protecting our community from floods and restoring Louisiana's eroding coast."
01.23.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Garret Graves (R – Baton Rouge) today was named Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which oversees water resources development and regulatory programs administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), along with other agencies and water-related programs. As Chairman, Graves will play an expanded role in shaping legislation to limit the scope and economic damages of agency regulations, shorten the time it takes for projects to be completed and bring efficiency to how the government works. The Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment will translate the Trump Administration’s proposed Infrastructure Package into legislation in the coming years, particularly with respect to bridges, flood protection, ports, waterways and coastal restoration. “We are all-in with the new Administration’s focus on modernizing our country’s infrastructure – but until you reform the current regulatory climate, you can’t do infrastructure,” said Graves. “Untangling the decades of bureaucracy and the culture of delay within the Corps, EPA and other agencies will take time, but we’re committed to helping lead the transformative change that has to occur to fix what’s broken in government operations. We’re going to work toward making Louisiana’s coast and the state’s need for hurricane and flood protection a case study on how it should be done – instead of another story of government failure.” Graves, who recently finished his second year serving in the House of Representatives, has more than 20 years of experience working on water resources issues. In addition to his policy expertise and years of private sector work, Graves served as Louisiana’s Chairman of the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority (CPRA) where he managed for the state one of America’s largest civil works programs in history and successfully streamlined government while boosting its productivity. Under Graves’ tenure, Louisiana constructed more flood protection infrastructure and restored more miles of coastline than at any other period of time in the State’s history. “The stupidity of spending billions of dollars after disasters instead of millions on prevention beforehand has to end,” Graves continued. “In the decades it takes the Corps to study projects, homes and businesses flood, vulnerable coastal communities disappear and taxpayers’ dollars are completely wasted. It’s time to partner with the private sector and turn dirt instead of talking and ‘studying.’” "Garret is a dedicated and knowledgeable member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and I'm excited about his addition to Committee's excellent leadership team. I look forward to getting to work on our agenda to help build an American infrastructure that is prepared for the challenges of the 21st century, and Garret's work as the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman will be instrumental to our efforts," said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA). Issues and agencies under the jurisdiction of the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee include: Water resources programs of the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) Clean Water Act Superfund (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act) Water infrastructure and watershed protection programs Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Brownfields program Ocean dumping Oil pollution of navigable waters of the United States Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation Small watershed program of the Natural Resources Conservation Service Deepwater ports Invasive/aquatic nuisance species Coastal pollution and coastal zone management National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Natural resource damages provisions in Superfund and the Oil Pollution Act Groundwater protection Water resources policy Read more here.
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the PROVE IT Act – a bi-partisan regulatory reform bill Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) introduced in 2016 and that was included in the Regulatory Accountability Act – earned passage in the U.S. House of Representatives. Under PROVE IT, federal regulators will finally be held accountable for the cost of complying with federal regulations. For years, federal agencies could just fabricate the estimated cost to American families of complying with the countless federal regulations they issue each year. PROVE IT requires these agencies to collect the actual cost of compliance of federal regulations from affected families and businesses to better understand the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the thousands of regulations that impact our lives on a daily basis. “We are tired of bureaucrats sitting in cubicles writing pages and pages of federal regulations on topics they know little about. In approximately the last eight years, the federal agencies have imposed ‘hidden taxes’, otherwise known as regulations totaling nearly $1,000,000,000,000 in a regulatory environment that has led to the first net loss in small businesses since records have been kept,” said Graves. “Bad regulations create jobs – in the federal government and in other countries.” Federal agencies can be prone to underestimate real-world compliance costs. The Graves bill establishes provisions to make regulators “prove it”: Requires agencies to perform regular lookbacks at 5-year intervals for all major rulemakings Requires a report to Congress on whether the rule is still meeting its regulatory objective and whether modifications to the rule could achieve better results while imposing a smaller burden/lower cost Reopens public dockets for stakeholder feedback Requires Agency to consider feedback Encourages a culture within agencies where costs are not taken for granted and benefits are more carefully considered Encourages agencies to better incorporate comments from stakeholders during the rulemaking process Increases transparency Facilitates stakeholder dialogue throughout life of rule “Our bill is about bringing fairness and transparency to the federal regulatory system,” Graves continued. “When an agency tells the American people how much a regulation will cost, they will be held accountable to that.” Since 2009, more than 600 major rules have been finalized, costing every American household approximately $15,000 each year and carrying a total estimated compliance cost in the trillions of dollars.* Today, agencies are not required to track or otherwise provide retrospective review of a major rulemaking’s benefits or economic impacts, despite the fact that the actual costs to regulated industries often far exceed agency estimates. And in Louisiana, the impact of federal regulation on our industries is 74 percent higher than the impact on the nation overall – making it the most regulated state in the country.** Graves explained the merits of PROVE IT on the House Floor tonight prior the Regulatory Accountability Act’s final passage. His remarks can be seen by clicking below. Video of Rep. Garret Graves Tells Federal Regulators to &amp;quot;Prove It&amp;quot; *Competitive Enterprise Institute: “Federal Regulation Cost Reaches $1.885 Trillion” ** Mercatus Center: “The Impact of Federal Regulation on the 50 States” ###
12.14.2016	Baton Rouge, LA – Louisiana Congressman Garret Graves (R – Capital Region) released the following statement regarding the resignation of Charlie Melancon as secretary of the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries: “We appreciate Charlie’s years of public service and wish him well in future endeavors. We also look forward to working with the new secretary to ensure Louisiana remains the Sportsman’s Paradise. The State of Louisiana has a remarkable record of sustainable wildlife and fisheries leadership. We can build upon these successes by delegating management authority over larger areas of Gulf of Mexico fisheries.” ###
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) boosted House passage of S.612 - the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act, which included Graves’ provisions to reverse the US Corps of Engineers’ culture of delay, expedite completion of critical flood protection projects in areas like Livingston, Ascension and East Baton Rouge Parishes, and accelerate funding toward the completion of the Comite and Amite River flood protection projects. S. 612 is the legislative vehicle for the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA 2016). “The Corps of Engineers’ is one of the most ineffective government agencies out there,” said Graves. “Flood protection projects dating back decades - some of which would have lessened the severity of the devastating, flood event that ravaged Louisiana in August – don’t look much different today than they did decades ago. It’s inexcusable.” Graves’ amendments included in the legislation direct the Corps to accelerate $150 million in flood protection projects in Livingston, East Baton Rouge, Ascension and other parishes. “Putting the burden of the Corps’ failure on residents in these areas is unacceptable – which is essentially the case as home and business owners are stuck with the bill trying to rebuild their lives after the flooding,” he added. “Instead, we need to get these projects finished to lower the base flood elevation of these communities. Our amendment helps accomplish that and will provide a path forward for homeowners to get back in their homes and on the road to full recovery.” Graves worked to hold the Corps accountable resulting in strict deadlines and reporting requirements for projects designed to mitigate coastal land loss and make our communities safer and more resilient. “In the state of Louisiana, we’ve lost 1900 square miles of our coast,” Graves continued. “We’ve been waiting decades for the Corps to build projects designed to fix it, but all we get is lip service about how it’s ‘still being considered.’ Meanwhile, the coast continues to disappear and our communities become increasingly vulnerable. The Corps should not take years upon years to make decisions so vital to our state.” Graves, a leader on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, played a significant role in shaping WRDA 2016 dating back to the start of the 114th Congress and successfully fought for multiple improvements to policies impacting how the Corps delivers water resources projects. Highlights of Graves’ impacts on WRDA 2016 include: Expediting the process for flood protection and coastal restoration projects. Improving local input and control of projects. Directing the Corps to accelerate $150 million in flood protection projects across south Louisiana. Expediting wetlands mitigation. Providing the opportunity to jumpstart coastal restoration by creating new Environmental Banks in Louisiana. Reducing state cost share of deepening the Mississippi River to 25%. Allowing ports to be reimbursed for dredging costs. Moving the West Shore Hurricane Protection project forward. Other provisions included in the bill will have significant impact in Louisiana. Things like: Advancing recovery efforts for oyster banks in the Gulf. Expediting Comite and Amite flood control projects. Authorizing the Southwest Coastal Louisiana project. Advancing dredge plans consistent with water quality plans. WRDA 2016 builds on reform efforts and requires a transparent process for congressional review of proposed Corps of Engineers water resources development activities. Following the oversight and review process created in the 2014 law, WRDA 2016 authorizes infrastructure improvements that have been proposed at the local level, reviewed by the Corps according to strict congressionally established criteria, and submitted to Congress for consideration. ###
12.07.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge) made the following statement about the $4.1 billion for Louisiana flood and other disaster recovery efforts that is part of a federal government funding bill expected to pass in the U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday and in the Senate on Friday: “It is clear that the government’s recovery efforts to date are wholly insufficient to allow for a full recovery. Thousands and thousands of flood victims are facing impossible financial decisions in the aftermath of this 1000-year flood, but this funding, combined with the $438 million provided in September will help flood victims get back on their feet,” said Graves. “This money needs to get to flood victims quickly - we cannot allow the slow, bureaucratic processes that have defined the federal response so far continue to re-victimize people.” Graves has been critical of how funding has been disbursed and has worked closely with state and federal officials to reduce administrative and programmatic costs. “These funds must instead be used to provide badly-needed assistance to flood victims – not fund excessive bureaucracy, administrative costs or environmental assessments. These resources must also be used to help provide assistance to all of those in need – not discriminate based upon income, race, neighborhood or other irrelevant criteria. It’s important to remember that the flood waters did not impact people along lines of race, ethnicity or socioeconomics – it inundated all its victims. We have to ensure recovery investments are made objectively, with the full scope of needs in view. We’re looking forward to working with the incoming Trump Administration to ensure that these funds are used in a manner that lifts our entire community of flooded homes and businesses.” The bill provides funding to respond to damages in Louisiana and several other States caused by recent natural disasters, including Hurricane Matthew, floods, drought, and other severe weather events. Funding is divided in the following way. Department of Agriculture Programs (AG) – $103.1 million for the Emergency Watershed Protection Program and $103 million for the Emergency Conservation Program. National Aeronautics and Space Administration Facilities (CJS) – $74.7 million for construction and restoration costs to repair hurricane damaged facilities. Corps of Engineers Construction (EW) – $54.8 million for Construction. Corps of Engineers Mississippi River and Tributaries (EW) – $290.7 million for Mississippi River and Tributaries. Corps of Engineers Operation and Maintenance (EW) – $259.6 million for Operation and Maintenance. Corps of Engineers Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies (EW) – $419.9 million for Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies. Federal Highway Administration Emergency Relief Program (THUD) – $1,004 million for the Emergency Relief Program. Community Development Block Grant Program (THUD) – $1,809 million for the Community Development Block Grant Program. ###
10.12.2016	BATON ROUGE, La. — Louisianans in parishes affected by August flooding now have until Monday, Nov.14, 2016, to register for federal disaster assistance. The State of Louisiana and FEMA advise that the deadline to apply for disaster assistance has been extended, so that all eligible residents have enough time to apply for assistance. Federal officials hope this additional time will ensure that everyone affected by the August severe storms and flooding has an opportunity to register for FEMA assistance. The goal is to reach all flood survivors who still need help. Registration is open to survivors in Acadia, Ascension, Avoyelles, East Baton Rouge, East Feliciana, Evangeline, Iberia, Iberville, Jefferson Davis, Lafayette, Livingston, Pointe Coupee, St. Helena, St. James, St. Landry, St. Martin, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Vermilion, Washington, West Baton Rouge and West Feliciana Parishes. This new deadline also applies to homeowners, renters and businesses submitting applications for low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). You can apply for assistance or track your status online at www.disasterassistance.gov or by using the FEMA app. If you prefer, call 800-621-FEMA (3362). Persons who are deaf, hard of hearing or have a speech disability and use a TTY may call 800-462-7585. Applicants who use 711 or Video Relay Service may also call 800-621-3362. FEMA phone lines are open from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily; multilingual operators are available. Homeowners, renters and businesses affected by the floods, can apply for a low-interest SBA disaster loan after registering with FEMA by going online to SBA’s secure site at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela, calling 800-659-2955 (TTY 800-877-8339). For information on SBA disaster assistance, go to www.sba.gov. SBA is the federal government’s primary source of money for the long-term rebuilding of disaster-damaged private property. SBA provides low-interest disaster loans to homeowners, renters, businesses and private nonprofits for their uncompensated physical disaster losses (homes, personal property and business assets). For small businesses and most private nonprofits, SBA disaster loans are available to cover working capital needs caused by the disaster, whether or not the business suffered physical damage. For more information on the Louisiana recovery, visit the disaster webpage for the flooding at fema.gov/disaster/4277; or visit the website for the Governor’s Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness at gohsep.la.gov. Follow FEMA on Twitter @femaregion6. ###
10.05.2016	(Baton Rouge, LA.) – Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) and the Louisiana congressional delegation today sent a letter to Julian Castro, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), urging him to quickly distribute $500 million in recently appropriated flood recovery funds via the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program and making the case that Louisiana deserves the bulk of the funding, and reminding HUD that the language of the law clearly states that the funding is for storms prior to enactment of the Act. “We cannot allow bureaucratic delays to further victimize the tens of thousands of families whose lives were turned upside down by this historic flood disaster,” said Rep. Graves. “It’s critical that we quickly get this financial assistance into the hands of flood victims.” “After the deadly thousand-year flooding disaster in August, thousands of Louisianians are still displaced from their homes, and we need to do everything we can to help them restore some semblance of normalcy as the recovery efforts continue,” said Sen. Vitter. “One of the quickest ways to do that is for HUD to start distributing the $500 million in federal disaster relief funds so that Louisiana families can move back into their homes.” “We know money has a greater impact if it comes sooner rather than later,” said Dr. Cassidy. “The administration must act quickly in distributing the available flood recovery funds so struggling families can know that help is on the way.” “Folks across my district are still hurting from two floods this year. I’ve been in their homes and seen the devastation first hand. HUD must move as swiftly as possible so we can get them on the road to recovery,” said Dr. Abraham. “We urge you to act swiftly to expedite and disburse the recently appropriated Community Development Block Grant funding to help with flooding disasters, the vast majority of which is clearly meant to help flood victims in Louisiana,” wrote the Louisiana congressional delegation. Last week, the Congress passed a continuing resolution that contained $500 million in federal disaster assistance that is expected to mainly be used for Louisiana flood recovery, following the deadly, historic flooding disaster in South Louisiana in August and the Red River flooding earlier this year. HUD is responsible for distributing the funds to states with disasters in 2016, and Louisiana is expected to receive a major portion of those funds through the CDBP program. Signing today’s letter to Secretary Castro are U.S. Sens. Vitter and Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-La.), and U.S. Reps. Charles Boustany, M.D. (R-La.), Steve Scalise (R-La.), John Fleming, M.D. (R-La.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Ralph Abraham, M.D. (R-La.), and Garret Graves (R-La.). Click here to read today’s letter. ###
09.30.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Garret Graves (R – Baton Rouge) today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is awarding nearly 130 million dollars in federal grants for the State of Louisiana’s Shelter at Home program. “We have been pushing the concept of the Shelter at Home Program because it has the potential to be a more effective alternative to other post-disaster temporary housing programs,” said Graves. “Instead of spending the tens, even hundreds of thousands of dollars on hotels, trailers and other temporary housing setups, Shelter at Home is supposed to invest directly into the rebuilding of damaged homes, which is more complementary of long-term recovery.” This announcement comes a week after Rep. Graves sent a letter urging FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate to address some concerns over the program’s structure that Graves explained. Graves went on, “I continue to have concerns that the program is operating with structural waste and too many layers of bureaucracy. FEMA’s funding announcement today – more than 26% of which is set aside for “Program Management” ($ 34,011,450) – reinforces my concern. Let’s put as much of this money into the hands of folks who can get the work done quickly and efficiently, like our do-it-yourself homeowners, other contractors or licensed recovery organizations still on the ground. We’re going to continue to work with FEMA and state officials to maximize the potential of this program and empower our citizens to jump to start these individual and community-wide recovery efforts.” Details about today’s funding announcement can be found here.
09.22.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – Baton Rouge) introduced a bill in the US House of Representatives today requiring the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to provide a predictable and timely response for flood insurance policyholders after they file a claim. The legislation establishes a deadline for approval of claims made under NFIP and mandates the program to make determinations within 30 days of the initial filing, followed by any payment owed under the claim. “Last month people across south Louisiana were in water from their knees to their necks or higher. The following six weeks have added insult to the injury through confusion and uncertainty in the face of the unprecedented personal financial crisis and life strain,” said Graves. “Thousands of home and business owners are in limbo because they cannot get appropriate information or payment from their federal flood insurance policies. As a result, many are facing foreclosure or bankruptcy. Our bill requires that the National Flood Insurance Program quickly get answers and funding to home and business owners.” The Timely Payments for Flood Victims Act of 2016 ensures that a home or business owner has certainty when it comes to filing a flood insurance claim under the National Flood Insurance Program. It requires that a determination of the claim must be made within 30 days of submission. Payments will be made as soon as possible should a claim be approved. It also provides for a 15 day extension past the 30 day deadline should extraordinary circumstances arise. This bill allows Congress to bring accountability to the NFIP in response to concerns voiced by those policyholders facing catastrophic loss from last month’s flooding. Graves added: “The conflicting, inconsistent or lack of information regarding recovery assistance and agencies adds insult to the injury, prevents people from moving forward toward recovery and compounds frustrations. People are having to make decisions about whether and how to stay and rebuild or move; for many, it’s a false choice and these delays and lack of information make it worse -- It’s inexcusable. Our bill forces the NFIP program to provide the customer service taxpayers deserve.” Congressman Graves’ bill is cosponsored by Congressmen Ralph Abraham, M.D. (R-Alto), Charles Boustany, M.D. (R-LA), and Cedric Richmond (D-LA). The full text of the bill can be found here. "Flood insurance policy holders need timely and accurate information on their claims so that they can begin the recovery process. Disasters are painful events for our families, business owners and the communities in which they live, so the very last thing they need are delays in the process. I am proud to cosponsor this bill on behalf of Louisiana’s flood victims, and I look forward to working alongside Congressman Graves to see that it becomes law,” Dr. Abraham said. Boustany said: “Many Louisianans are still waiting to hear whether or not their insurance claims have been approved from flooding that began over a month ago. That is unacceptable. These claims must be processed in a timely manner to ensure the rebuilding process will begin soon after disaster strikes. I am proud to support this important legislation.”
09.22.2016	Congressman Garret Graves announced today that the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will allocate $13 million of “sanction funds” to aid Baton Rouge and Lafayette recovery efforts after a conversation he had with HUD Secretary Julian Castro. Sanction funds are unexpended dollars recuperated from HUD grantees by the agency. Such funds are pooled and reallocated to communities impacted by a Stafford Act event. “For weeks, we’ve been in constant contact with HUD, FEMA and other federal agencies educating them about the scale of this disaster and working to identify opportunities like this one to redirect resources to the tens of thousands of Louisianans who so badly need help in their fight to recover from the August flood,” said Graves. “Every bit of assistance helps, and we’re urging the state to allocate these resources directly to the impacted parishes to ensure the money goes to where it is needed most. I want to thank Secretary Castro for his ongong support of recovery efforts in Louisiana." Sanction funds can be used for infrastructure needs, small business and economic development needs, and even individual homeowner needs. In the conversation with Graves, Secretary Castro indicated all $13 million of the department's sanction funds are directed to Baton Rouge and Lafayette, which are Entitlement Communities. As Entitlement Communities, these cities receive direct funding from HUD. They are the only two Entitlement Communities in the impact area. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) welcomes Louisiana Mayors Jr. Shelton, Rick Ramsey and Gerard Landry to his office in Washington, DC today as the four men prepare to testify tomorrow in the U.S. House of Representatives at a hearing focused on FEMA’s response to the recent flooding that ravaged South Louisiana. The Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets, which has oversight of FEMA, scheduled the hearing after its chairman, Rep. John Mica (R-FL), joined Graves to survey the damage in the Capital Region last week; the hearing is entitled, “Oversight of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Response to the Baton Rouge Flood Disaster.” "The resiliency of our community is amazing. No one sat around waiting on the federal government to make progress – in fact, Congressman Mica probably thinks we have a Cajun cadre for everything,” said Graves. “But now the real work has begun, and we’re hearing story after story of how FEMA is failing to show the kind of adaptability and common sense we need to jump start this recovery. These mayors represent some of the hardest hit communities. Bringing local voices to these stories is invaluable as we continue to paint the picture for these people in Washington.” More than 139,000 Louisianans have registered with FEMA for disaster assistance so far, with an estimated 150,000 homes damaged or flooded. The historic, 1,000-year flood is projected to be the fourth costliest flood disaster in US history. “We are concerned about the future of our city,” said Denham Springs Mayor Gerard Landry. “I want to be assured that we will remain whole as a community.” “What happened in Central could happen to any city in America,” said City of Central Mayor Jr. Shelton. “We are sharing our story so other municipalities can learn from our experience and avoid this heartache.” “It's crucial our elected leaders are made aware of the magnitude of the flooding and the obstacles we face in rebuilding. Hopefully we will be received with an open mind that will result in positive changes for the present and near future,” added Walker Mayor Rick Ramsey. State Senator Bodi White will also be in Washington, DC as Graves’ office is coordinating meetings with FEMA, the US Department of Transportation and other federal agencies for the local officials. The hearing is scheduled for 8:30 a.m. EST on Friday, September 9, 2016 in 2154 Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, DC. It will also be available via live stream at https://oversight.house.gov/hearing/oversight-federal-emergency-management-agencys-response-baton-rouge-flood-disaster/ ###
08.01.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge) continues to lead efforts to ensure our law enforcement have the resources they need to protect our community and keep themselves safe. The July 17 officer shootings and other events in our city have resulted in millions of dollars in extra costs for our law enforcement community. Graves co-authored a letter with Congressman Cedric Richmond (D-New Orleans) sent to Attorney General Loretta Lynch that highlights the national importance of Baton Rouge’s recovery and urges the US Department of Justice to release additional funding to reimburse local law enforcement agencies, whose recovery expenses are expected to reach the $5 million mark. “This is about maintaining law enforcement’s ability to keep our citizens safe in the long-run,” said Graves. “The tragedy that happened here attracted activists from across the country – this is a national event and our officers have been on high alert since. The increased presence was and is needed to ensure a full recovery and the safety of our community, but the additional manpower and equipment is costly. The additional costs have to come from somewhere – we can’t allow them to compromise the safety, security or capabilities of our law enforcement officers. Diverting funds from police equipment, training, patrols, investigations and preparedness accounts to cover these extra expenses only solves one problem while creating another – putting our community and law enforcement officers at risk. We will continue to work with DOJ to identify discretionary sources of funding they could deploy to make sure our law enforcement community has the resources necessary to serve and protect.” Last week, Graves helped secure an initial $650,000 in U.S. Department of Justice funds to help cover a portion of the early costs of the recovery. Attorney General Lynch pledged the US Department of Justice’s ongoing support for local authorities during her remarks Friday in Baton Rouge at a memorial service for the fallen officers. To read the Graves letter, click here.
07.21.2016	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) announced today $650,000 of federal assistance from the United States Department of Justice to help provide local law enforcement officials with needed resources after Sunday’s deadly, ambush attack on law enforcement officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. “We are grateful for these much needed resources just days into what will be a long recovery and healing process for our community, but this is just a start,” said Graves. “Total cost of responding to these shootings could reach $3-5 million – costs incurred by Baton Rouge City Police, the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff’s office, Louisiana State Police and the many law enforcement agencies that have sent officers from across the state, along with other first responders who have played essential roles. We’ll continue working with the US Department of Justice to ensure that these increased costs are not at the expense of future training, weapons and other capabilities our officers will need to continue to enforce the law, protect our citizens and promote the well-being of all members of our community.” ###
07.18.2016	I am sorry to the families of the officers killed and injured today, and our prayers are with them. The violent attacks on our law enforcement are disgusting and do not represent who we are as a community, city or nation. This is senseless hatred, plain and simple. These types of actions provide no productive path forward. In the immediate days following the Alton Sterling shooting, we saw peaceful protests and expressions of concern. There were virtually no protestor-police interactions. It was not until outsiders came in, attempted to redefine our community and incite violence did conditions change. Again, this is not who we are. South Louisiana has had more than our share of crisis and disasters -- some of the worst hurricanes, floods, plant explosions, ships sinking and the nation's worst oil spill. People would give their shirt off their back to help their neighbors and community. This is not who we are as a community in Baton Rouge or as a people in America. Hostility will not bring healing or progress or move us closer to a solution. Like our military men and women who defend our freedoms abroad, law enforcement underpins the ability to peacefully enjoy our liberties here. Failing to respect that fact erodes the rule of law that holds us together. Our hearts are heavy. The officers and deputies who lost their lives, who are fighting for life and are healing from injuries are our neighbors - they are our friends. They have families. They are Baton Rouge. And, frankly, they were just doing their jobs. We will stand with the law enforcement community to see that swift justice is done.
07.13.2016	Washington, DC – Louisiana Congressmen Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge) and Cedric Richmond (D-New Orleans) introduced legislation today in response to the recent officer-involved shooting in Baton Rouge. The bi-partisan bill offers state and local law enforcement officers voluntary access to new non-lethal technologies to help protect the public. "No one wants death and violence in our communities,” said Graves. “We do not need to wait for the findings of a federal Department of Justice investigation to realize that this tragedy could have turned out very differently. Rather than preparing Alton Sterling’s body for a coffin, he could be preparing his defense. Rather than our law enforcement officers’ security being threatened, they could be given accolades for their bravery and for keeping our community safe”. “This solution will not fix everything, but it’s a step in the right direction,” said Richmond. “The tension between police officers and citizens is complex, and so will be the efforts to address it, but waiting until all of the pieces of the puzzle come together is not an option.” The legislation establishes an Office of Non-Lethal Technologies and Techniques within the Department of Justice and authorizes grant funding designed to develop and refine the use of new non-lethal tactics. The grant program has three components: Prioritizing research and development of improved non-lethal technologies Training on new technologies and de-escalation tactics. Incentivizing the deployment of new, non-lethal technologies for state and local law enforcement through a 75% federal match of local funds “There is a significant difference in the long-term consequences of being ‘tazed’ versus being shot. Providing additional tools and training to officers will help bridge the gap that exists between engaging a citizen and using deadly weapons, and ultimately will help prevent future tragedies and reverse some of the trends we’ve experienced,” said Graves. The bill directs coordination between the Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies to help build upon existing research and development on non-lethal techniques and technologies for adaptation to state and local law enforcement use. Appropriations authorized in the bill are fully offset by savings realized from the sale of unused or underutilized federal properties. ###
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015. Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA), a co-sponsor of the bill, released the following statement: “Many of us in Greater Baton Rouge have seen or felt personally the shortfalls of the mental health system, despite the nearly $130 billion the government spends on mental health programs. This bill is a step toward closing the gaps in the system – gaps that can lead good people down paths of poverty, violence or even suicide. By improving access, focusing on prevention and early intervention and creating additional capacity at healthcare facilities, we can fill the space where people simply need treatment. We’re looking forward to working this bill toward enactment so we can implement these changes and help provide the care people need when they need it.” H.R. 2646 aims to better integrate the various components of the mental health system and prioritizes funding toward programs that have successful diagnostic and treatment outcomes. It also focuses resources to foster evidence-based care, fix the shortage of psychiatric hospital beds, empower caregivers under HIPAA privacy laws to allow for compassionate communication, bring accountability to mental health spending and help patients get treatment before illness spirals into crisis. The bill earned widespread support from healthcare providers, advocates, families and individuals who have experienced the impacts of mental illness, and it passed the House with a bipartisan, nearly unanimous vote of 422-2. Upon House passage of H.R. 2646, U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA) urged the Senate to take immediate action on his bipartisan bill, the Mental Health Reform Act.
07.06.2016	U.S. Congressman Garret Graves (R - Baton Rouge) issued the following statement regarding the shooting of Alton Sterling: "All loss of life is tragic, and our prayers are with Alton’s family, his friends and our community. When something like this happens, I try to imagine how I would respond if a loved-one was the victim, and in this case, the video we’ve all seen is gut wrenching. We urge the law enforcement community to release all the evidence of the preliminary investigation as quickly as possible, and we encourage onlookers to not confuse presumptions for facts in the meantime. No 45-second video changes this fact: black men are not automatically criminals and police officers are not automatically dirty. Harmony between citizens and law enforcement depends just as much on law enforcement’s integrity as it does on our collective respect for the law. Let’s not allow this incident to cast a shadow over the law enforcement community, who with rare exception, are extremely professional, dedicated, courageous and put their lives on the line every day to protect our communities."
07.06.2016	Today, the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources held a legislative hearing on H.R. 5577, introduced by Rep. Garret Graves (R-LA), the “Innovation in Offshore Leasing Act.” H.R. 5577, a bipartisan bill co-sponsored by Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), modernizes the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management’s (BOEM) offshore leasing process through the use of internet-based oil and natural gas lease sales. “Dealing with the government is like going back in time, and workflows the private sector retired decades ago are still alive and well. In the real world, work gets done online – that’s why I introduced this bill,” Rep. Graves stated. “Internet-based oil and gas leasing will open investment opportunities and competition for additional businesses, improve the transparency and efficiency of the process. Giving more companies a chance to work in the offshore will also increase energy revenue sharing to support the resiliency of Louisiana’s coastal ecosystems and communities on which our nation’s economy relies.” “Federal agencies are notoriously slow to adapt, but I believe the Bureau of Ocean Management is up to the task […]. This bipartisan bill will help the Department of the Interior transition into the 21st Century by fostering an offshore internet leasing program,” Subcommittee Chairman Doug Lamborn (R-CO) said. Currently, the Secretary of the Interior conducts sealed-bid lease sales for oil and natural gas leasing, in which bids are opened and read aloud in the Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana. Incorporating internet-based technologies are a cost-effective improvement that will bring greater efficiency and transparency to the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) offshore leasing process. William Britain, co-founder and chairman of EnergyNet, explained the benefits of interactive online lease sales. EnergyNet, an internet platform for oil and gas lease sales, conducts sales for the Bureau of Land Management, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and numerous States including Texas, Colorado, Utah and Wyoming. “[T]he Oil and Gas Industry and State Lease Agencies have migrated their property sales to the internet in increasing numbers in order to reach more bidders, thus increasing competition, and in the process, enhancing transparency and security,” Britain said. Jon Hrobsky, policy director for Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, talked about his experience on Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) issues at the DOI and in the private sector noting that BOEM already conducts wind energy lease sales online. “Even the Department of Motor Vehicles has moved many of its functions to the internet. While the process to move oil and gas lease sales online will not be overnight, it is an endeavor the Bureau can and should do,” Hrobsky said. Of the 1.7 billion offshore acres, only 1.3% or 22 million are currently under lease. Much of the total acreage including the entire Atlantic coastline are currently barred from exploration. The Obama Administration’s restrictive Five-Year Plan, which is currently being finalized, will likely barricade even more acres from responsible development. BOEM Deputy Director Walter Cruickshank gave the agency’s stamp of approval on the “overall intent” of the bill. Click here to view full witness testimony.
07.05.2016	Congressman Garret Graves (R LA) announced today that Louisiana will be awarded a $60 million U.S. Department of Transportation grant under the FASTLANE Program – a program Graves was instrumental in establishing during last year’s passage of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act). Today’s announcement means resources will be committed to close the existing Washington Street exit, establish a new left exit to access Washington Street and to eliminate the only place in the nation where the interstate drops down to one lane -- the source of a major bottleneck in the Capital Region. “We made a commitment to get this bottleneck addressed and are excited that the resources are finally in place to fix this problem. This is a key step to solving some of the worse traffic in the nation,” said Graves. “For too long, the people of South Louisiana have had to settle for talk. Today, we are getting action.” As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Graves authored amendments to help Louisiana to better compete against other states for this funding. His language provided for merit-based project prioritization and helped remove political influences of project selection. In addition to today’s announcement, the FAST Act provides Louisiana with an estimated $500M increase in funds, the ability to compete for billions of dollars in grant opportunities for priority projects in South Louisiana and advance the integration of technologies to employ innovative solutions to help improve transportation efficiency. ###
06.16.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) introduced bipartisan legislation today in the US House of Representatives to bring fairness, transparency and accountability to the federal regulatory system – the PROVE IT Act of 2016. “Regulations are effectively a hidden tax. Billions of dollars that our businesses and manufacturers could be using to boost wages and grow jobs are being diverted to comply with the daily avalanche of new regulations,” said Graves. “The costs of these regulations almost always exceed the self-serving predictions agencies use when the rules are issued, but the overregulated public is still unfairly forced to pay for them. I’m offering this bill to help end the regulatory abuse.” Federal agencies justify rulemakings using impact analysis prior to the rule going into effect, which is when the least amount of information is known about a regulation’s true economic costs and benefits. Under current law, after an agency finalizes a new major rulemaking and mandates compliance, it never has to answer for the actual impact the rule is having on people and the economy. True cost of compliance could be underestimated by tens of billions of dollars and there is no accountability mechanism. Congressman Graves’ bill, “Providing Retrospective Observations Validating the Economics and Increasing Transparency,”(PROVE IT) will force agencies that claimed minimal economic impact to PROVE IT after the rule has been applied in the real world. “A recent study showed that the impact of all of these regulations in our home state of Louisiana is 74% greater than the nation as a whole – we’re the most regulated state in America,” Graves continued. “Take chemical manufacturing, for example. That industry is three-times more important to Louisiana’s economy than the national economy, but it is regulated ten-times more than the average industry. The story is similar with energy. Think about what that means for take home pay, business expansion and opportunities for all of us.” Regulations affecting nearly all sectors of the economy have skyrocketed in the past seven years with over 600 new, major rulemakings since 2009, carrying a minimum estimated economic cost of over two trillion dollars. This regulatory burden stifles economic growth, undermines American competiveness and kills jobs. Also since 2009, the United States has had the first net reduction in the number of small businesses since records have been kept, according to According to the National Federation of Independent Business. The PROVE IT Act gives Congress the authority to require agencies to conduct regular lookbacks and report to Congress when actual cost and benefits vary from agency predictions. It also requires agencies to produce reviews to determine whether a rule is meeting its regulatory objectives and to re-engage with local employers to identify ways to accomplish the objective at a lower cost to regulated entities. “We have to untangle our job creators from the costly burden of excessive regulations so they can prosper. We can achieve real environmental benefits through efforts compatible with economic growth,” Graves concluded. The PROVE IT Act has 16 original cosponsors, including lead Democrat Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX) and Louisiana Congressmen Abraham (R) and Boustany (R). ###
06.15.2016	The House Committee on Natural Resources today approved Congressman Garret Graves’ (R-LA) legislation to transfer management of the Gulf red snapper fishery away from the federal government to the five Gulf States. H.R. 3094, the Gulf States Red Snapper Management Authority Act (GSRSMA), passed on a bi-partisan vote of 24-14, with one Member voting “present” (Rep. John Fleming (R-Louisiana)). “The bottom line is this: the federal government is using flawed science and a self-preserving process to obstruct recreational and commercial access to Sportsman’s Paradise,” said Graves. “States can do it better, which is why I’ll continue working with my bi-partisan colleagues until this bill is passed in full House of Representatives.” Under GSRSMA, the fish and wildlife agencies of the five Gulf States would use public input to develop and implement a coordinated, science-based fishery management plan. HR 3094 currently has the bipartisan support of 42 cosponsors in the House of Representatives including Louisiana Members Abraham (R), Boustany (R) and Richmond (D). The bill is endorsed by:
05.25.2016	An amendment by Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) banning the use of taxpayer dollars to pay down Puerto Rico's debt passed today as the House Natural Resources Committee advanced legislation (H.R. 5278) to address the territory's financial crisis ahead of a potential default on July 1. "Diverting Louisiana tax dollars to bailout Puerto Rico’s financial mismanagement is unfair to our state and would not solve the long-term problems in Puerto Rico," said Graves. "Our amendment makes it clear that the bill is not a bailout." Watch the video below: Video of No Taxpayer Bailout ###
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves released the following statement today after the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement released the Final Well Control Rule: “The Deepwater Horizon disaster resulted in the senseless loss of life, and we need to do everything we can to prevent this from ever happening again. It is also important to remember the company pled guilty to 11 counts of felony manslaughter and the court found that the operators were “grossly negligent” and “exercised willful misconduct.” The court did not find a lack of rules and regulations at the time. The draft well control rule released last summer was the product of novices who clearly lacked even a basic understanding of offshore energy technology and conditions, and this entire process has exposed the dangerous combination of bureaucratic arrogance and bureaucratic ignorance. The draft rule would have resulted in up to a 35% reduction in offshore energy production, a $50-80 million annual reduction in offshore energy revenues available for coastal restoration and hurricane protection in Louisiana, further bleeding of energy jobs in our state and increased reliance on imported foreign oil – none of which is good for America. The premise of this rule completely ignores the progress in safety technology and processes made since the 2010 disaster. The Department of the Interior wrote the initial rule behind closed doors for four years, but gave stakeholders only a few months to provide expert comments. Now, they are trying the same thing by providing only 90-days to begin enforcement of this new 500-page rule. This is why it is dangerous to appoint bureaucrats that have never spent a minute working in the real world in charge of programs like this. We all support the safety of our workers and the environment, but this is no more than a thinly-veiled attempt by the Obama Administration to kill our domestic energy industry. The sad irony is that the technical errors in this regulation will likely put our offshore workers at greater risk. This is why America hates our federal government. This won’t stop our efforts to reform and reverse the fundamentally flawed components of this regulation. January 2017 can’t come quickly enough.” ###
03.22.2016	Washington, DC – Congressmen Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge) and Charles Boustany, Jr., MD, (R-Lafayette) led a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting that language be included in the Interior, Environment and Related Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 prohibiting the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) from using any funds for the implementation of the agency’s proposed well control rule. In response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, the federal government and industry has made a continuous effort to improve offshore safety regulation. The well control rule has come under criticism from oil & gas industry stakeholders who say the rule imposes an impossible mandate on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, requiring technology that has not been developed and will not have a demonstrable benefit to safety. These stakeholders argue the rule could amount to a de facto drilling moratorium in the Gulf until new technology to meet the rule’s requirements is developed over the coming years. Experts at Wood Mackenzie concluded that if this rule went into effect, as many as 190,000 direct jobs would be lost due to a decrease in exploration and production. The well control rule is currently under review at the Office of Information and Regulatory affairs within the Office of Management and Budget. Graves said: “We lost 11 lives during the Deepwater Horizon disaster and have lost 25% of the oil and gas jobs in the state of Louisiana over the last 14 months. Misguided regulations like this only add to these tragedies. This is a perfect example of uninformed bureaucrats attempting to write highly-technical rules and entirely missing the mark. The Department of the Interior estimates compliance with the rule would cost approximately $880 million while a private study found it could cost nearly $95 billion. There is a fundamental disconnect there that needs to be resolved. If finalized, this rule would result in less safe offshore conditions and a further bleeding of energy jobs in Louisiana. I am all for innovation and improving safety, but this rule needs to go back to the drawing board. Experts in the field need to be brought in to help write it. This is why people hate government -- you simply cannot do things like this in a vacuum or ivory tower like the Department of Interior has done.” Boustany said, “The well control rule is a solution in search of a problem. While we all agree on the goal of a safe work environment in the Gulf of Mexico, the Obama Administration is approaching this problem from a punitive - not practical - standpoint. Not only does the oil & gas industry continue to warn this rule as implemented would have no demonstrable safety benefit, it would cost thousands of jobs precisely while the industry is struggling. Congressman Graves and I are asking Congress to join us, support our hard working oil & gas industry, and stand up against the Obama Administration's latest over-the-top attack on energy.” The text of the letter can be found below. Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: We write to urge you to include language in the upcoming Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 which would prohibit the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) from using appropriated funds to implement the proposed rule "Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf - Blowout Preventer Systems and Well Control," or any substantially similar rule or guidance. Since the horrific accident on the Deepwater Horizon rig in 2010, the federal government and the industry have made a continuous effort to improve safety offshore - enhancing regulations and standards on safety and environmental management systems as well as offshore equipment and operations, including well design and well control, to protect workers and the environment. While BSEE contends that this rule has been proposed in order to improve safety in the offshore energy industry, experts and engineers agree that this proposed rule could instead result in decreased safety and increased risks in drilling operations because of the highly prescriptive, one-size-fits-all nature of the rule. Although the rule is currently under review at the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs within the Office of Management and Budget, we believe it is imperative Congress act now to prevent further implementation of this devastating rule and prohibit BSEE from using appropriated funds for this or any substantially similar rule. Accordingly, we ask that you include language similar to the following in the respective Appropriations Acts: “SEC. __. None of the funds made available by this or any other Act may be expended by the Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) to implement or enforce any regulations issued after March 1, 2016, that address any subject of the proposed rule entitled “Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf – Blowout Preventer Systems and Well Control” (80 Fed. Reg. 21504 (April 17, 2015)) (referred to in this section as the “Well Control Rule”) unless and until the Secretary— (a) writes a revised version of the Well Control Rule that incorporates the information learned from additional technical workshops with industry experts; (b) provides notice and an opportunity for public comment, for at least 180 days, on the revised version of the Well Control Rule; and (c) issues a revised final version of the Well Control Rule” We ask that you to consider the effects that this rule would have on important sectors of our economy, and we urge you to include prohibiting language in the upcoming Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017. We thank you for your thoughtful consideration of this request. We appreciate your attention to this important matter. ### A copy of the letter can be viewed here.
03.03.2016	US Representative Garret Graves is taking advantage of technology to enhance communication with his constituents. Yesterday, he used Facebook's video streaming capabilities to host a live question and answer (Q&A) session with people across his South Louisiana district. Nearly one thousand Facebook users viewed and participated as the Congressman fielded questions and responded to comments submitted during the twenty-five minute event, which took place during the lunch hour. Graves plans to continue incorporating Facebook video streaming into his portfolio of constituent engagement tools. "My job is to represent you, and that works best when we're talking," said Graves, who has made accessibility and responsiveness a top priority throughout his first term in office. The Facebook Q&A is the latest in a series of initiatives the Congressman has launched to ensure he has ongoing dialogue with the people he represents. Graves frequently hosts town hall meetings, telephone town halls, regular open office hours, "Grubs with Garret" and other opportunities designed to give people opportunties to share their opinions and concerns related to the many issues under consideration in Congress. "Like" Congressman Garret Graves on Facebook for be a part of the next Facebook Q&A and to learn more about other opportunites to stay engaged. You can also sign up for his newsletter to stay informed about Rep. Graves' work in Congress.
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON— Today, U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy, Sen. David Vitter, Rep. Ralph Abraham, Rep. Charles Boustany, Rep. John Fleming, Rep. Garret Graves and Rep. Steve Scalise sent a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Jindal’s request for a federal emergency declaration for the State of Louisiana after unprecedented rainfall and flooding. “As of today, reports from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) indicate that river stations reaching from Vicksburg, Mississippi to New Orleans, Louisiana are expected to exceed flood stage,” wrote the Members. “An effective federal response and assistance is necessary to ensure the safety of our citizens, mitigate property damage and lessen the threat of a disaster.” Ongoing rainfall has caused flooding along the Red, Atchafalaya and Mississippi Rivers, threatening homes and businesses in Louisiana. This dangerous rise in water levels is similar to Louisiana’s flooding events in 2011, which received a Presidential Emergency Declaration. In today’s letter, the Members request federal resources to protect Louisiana citizens from the flooding and implement preventative measures. The State of Missouri, who has also been affected by the Mississippi River flooding, was approved for an emergency declaration on December 22, 2015. Read the below: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, We are writing to express our support for Governor Jindal's request for a federal emergency declaration for the State of Louisiana effective December 28, 2015. The State of Missouri has been approved for an emergency declaration effective December 22, 2015, in part because of flooding in the Mississippi River Basin which began to impact Louisiana on January 2, 2016. This request comes as a result of the ongoing and imminent record flooding along the Red, Atchafalaya and Mississippi Rivers. Over the last 30 days, several states have experienced an unprecedented amount of rainfall, which threatens to raise water levels for the Atchafalaya, Red and Mississippi River to dangerous levels. There is justifiable concern that these increased water levels could lead to flooding which would result in significant damages and disruptions for families, homes, and businesses across Louisiana. As of today, reports from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) indicate that river stations reaching from Vicksburg, Mississippi to New Orleans, Louisiana are expected to exceed flood stage. The flooding that we are currently experiencing is very similar to the levels experienced in 2011, which Louisiana received a Presidential Emergency Declaration. The USACE opened the Bonnet Cane on January 10, 2016 in order to help lower the levels of the Mississippi River. During the 2011 emergency, the surrounding areas experienced significant damage, and similar damage is expected due to the current flood incident. The opening of the spillway threatens to displace thousands of Louisianans in towns in the lower St. Martin, St. Landry, St. Mary and Assumption Parishes. Parish officials in Assumption, Avoyelles, Concordia, East Carrol, Iberia, Iberville, Lafourche, Madison, Plaquemines, Point Coupee, St. John the Bapist, St. Landry, St. Martin, St. Mary, Tensas, Terrebone, West Baton Rouge and West Feliciana, which border the Mississippi River, have made emergency declarations and begun taking measures to protect their communities. Other parishes are also considering to do the same. It is expected that the emergency response capacity will exceed the capability of state resources. As a result, we request that vital federal resources be pre-positioned and released to assist state and local government to appropriately monitor risks, preserve property and implement preventive measures for residents, including potential sheltering operations. An effective federal response and assistance is necessary to ensure the safety of our citizens, mitigate property damage and lessen the threat of a disaster. We look forward to working with you to help the residents of the threatened areas in their time of need, and eagerly await your response. ###
01.11.2016	Washington, DC – Congressmen Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge), Charles W. Boustany, Jr., MD, (R-Lafayette) and Ralph Abraham, MD, (R-Alto) joined their colleagues in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) urging him to hold a vote on the House-passed American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. The SAFE Act requires the Director of the FBI to certify thorough background checks have been administered for every refugee entering the United States from high-risk countries like Iraq or Syria, and requires that the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Attorney General must affirm every refugee being admitted to the United States is not a security threat. The House passed the SAFE Act on November 19, 2015, but the Senate has not acted on the bill. On Friday, January 8, authorities arrested two refugees – one in Sacremento, CA, and one in Houston – on terrorism-related charges. According to a report by CNN: “Both men were Palestinians born in Iraq and living as refugees in the United States, according to the U.S. Justice Department… Omar Faraj Saeed Al Hardan, 24, of Houston, is charged with attempting to provide material support to ISIS. Aws Mohammed Younis Al-Jayab, 23, of Sacramento is charged with making a false statement involving international terrorism.” Graves said: “I commend law enforcement for identifying these individuals’ affiliations, apprehending them and preventing their ability to carry out any acts of terror on our soil, but Friday’s events further expose the shortcomings of the current system being used to vet these refugees coming across our borders. We must be proactive with our efforts to know who these people are, which is why we have called on the Senate to take steps to keep Americans safe by certifying that thorough background checks have been conducted for refuges entering America from high-risk terror countries.” Boustany said: “We must do everything within our power to ensure no one is ever admitted to this country who wishes us harm. The hard truth is, there are bad actors who are willing to do anything – including exploiting America’s generosity through the refugee program – to attack the United States. If the Administration will not pause the admission of refugees from Iraq and Syria, they should at least be willing to conduct thorough background checks to ensure no one with terrorist ties is brought to this country.” Abraham said: “The recent terrorism arrests show that the President’s process for vetting refugees is not working. Since he refuses to stop admitting these refugees, we must strengthen the process to make sure no terrorists enter our country. I urge the Senate to pass the American SAFE Act so that we can send this bill to the President. I believe in helping people when we can, but the security of our families and our communities is simply too important to risk on these refugees and the current failed vetting process.” ### A signed copy of the letter Boustany, Abraham, Graves, and their colleagues sent to Majority Leader McConnell can be viewed here.
12.16.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-LA) announced today the inclusion of an important red snapper management provision in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill that Congress will vote on later this week. The provision marks substantive progress on the Graves-led effort in the House to improve management and increase recreational access to the Gulf red snapper fishery. “The federal government’s management of red snapper is a complete failure,” said Graves. “For too long, incomplete science has informed federal policies that have restricted access to the enormous recreational fishing community in South Louisiana and across the Gulf Coast, eroding the region’s fishing heritage and hurting local economies.” Graves led a House Natural Resources Committee hearing earlier this year to examine his bill, H.R. 3094 – the Gulf States Red Snapper Management Authority Act (GSRSMA), which would transfer management of the fishery from the federal government to the five Gulf States. He also drafted a House-passed amendment to the appropriations bill giving recreational fishers up to 70-days to fish for red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico – up from 10-days. Graves’ advocacy for state management has bolstered a bipartisan effort to reform the federal management regime. “NOAA’s stock assessments exclude red snapper that live on reefs and around energy infrastructure in the Gulf, which is known habitat that anyone who goes out for red snapper targets to get on the fish. The government’s flawed circular reasoning – excluding critical habitat, underestimating the population, limiting recreational access – is absurd,” Graves added. Language in the omnibus addresses state jurisdiction, assessments and allowable catch. Specifically: Fishery Boundaries: Bill language extends Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi state seaward fishery boundaries from three miles out to nine miles for these states to regulate red snapper and other reef fish. Red Snapper Tagging Study: Provides up to $5 million for NOAA’s National Sea Grant College program to support external research and development through its network of academic institutions for a red snapper tagging study in the Gulf of Mexico. Red Snapper Stock Assessment: Provides $5 million for independent, stock assessments (outside of NOAA) for Gulf reef fish including red snapper. Directs NOAA to count fish on artificial reefs and offshore energy exploration infrastructure, incorporate those counts into future stock assessments and management decisions for reef fish in the Gulf of Mexico. Red Snapper Allowable Catch: Urges NOAA to provide an increased allocation of Gulf red snapper to private recreational anglers. Red Snapper and the Marine Recreational Information Program (MRIP): Provides no funding for the full transition to the new MRIP implementation plan until NOAA fixes the stock assessment process as directed under the bill’s red snapper section. “This language is a step in the right direction, but I remain committed to working with stakeholders toward a broader sustainable solution by transferring red snapper management authority to the five Gulf States in 2016,” concluded Graves. Graves worked with Senator Richard Shelby from Alabama and Senators Vitter and Cassidy on this issue. ###
12.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – Louisiana) helped to finalize negotiations on a five-year highway funding bill – including many provisions designed to address Louisiana’s traffic problems. The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act contains substantial increases in federal highway funding for Louisiana, along with important Graves provisions that will help to address short, mid and long-term traffic solutions in the entire capitol region. The bill strategically positions projects like the Washington Street exit area, I-10 and I-12 widening, LA-1 and LA-30 improvements, connecting Walker to Gonzales and a new Mississippi River bridge. As a conferee to the exclusive House-Senate conference, Graves worked closely with committee leaders from both chambers to reach a bicameral, bipartisan agreement on the landmark transportation bill. “Drivers across South Louisiana are tired of seeing and hearing about how bad traffic is,” said Graves. “Our work will result in Louisiana getting a guaranteed increase of up to $100 million annually with additional grant opportunities funded at $800 million to $1 billion each year. We need to see action. When signed into law, this bill will give state and local authorities real opportunity to jump start high impact projects to get our roads moving again.” Other provisions preserved in the final version of the bill could have additional direct impacts on South Louisiana. These include: • The creation of the National Significant Freight and Highway Projects program, which will provide transportation funding for major national or regional projects. This includes $4.5 billion over 5 years of competitive grants for projects costing at least $100 million. • A Graves amendment to prioritize projects to increase capacity of highway segments to improve mobility under the Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects program (i.e., I-10 at Washington St. Exit and other locations). • A Graves amendment to allow consideration for projects to improve energy security under the Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects program (i.e., I-49, LA-1, I-10). • A technology initiative pushed by Graves to better leverage innovation to make more efficient use of existing roads (i.e. intelligent traffic management). • Expediting bureaucratic and time-consuming federal environmental and other reviews.“Traffic lights were invented nearly 100 years ago, yet we are still largely using the same technology today. This is crazy,” Graves continued. “We have the ability to interface traffic management with cell phones, Google and Waze maps and newer technologies to help improve traffic flow on our existing roadways. These are solutions we can implement in months not years.As I’ve said before, our roadways are decades behind where they need to be. Traffic delays are strangling our economy, taking time away from our families and are a daily reminder that taxpayers aren’t getting a return on investment. Louisiana’s share of additional funding and the new competitive grant program present tremendous opportunity to noticeable improvement.” When asked about the competitive grant program, Graves responded: “Few projects rival the importance of clearing up the chokepoint along I-10. The Washington Street exit is one of the only places in the country where an interstate drops to one lane, and it occurs at a high volume point along a national corridor heavily used by cross-country freight, regional and local traffic. Louisiana will ultimately compete for funding under the program, but I am confident that I-10 is well positioned.” The full House is expected to consider the FAST Act tomorrow. Funding for current highway programs expire December 4th. ###
12.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) released the following statement after the House of Representatives adopted two joint resolutions yesterday expressing congressional disapproval of key components of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s controversial Clean Power Plan: “From the gas pump to our living rooms, the EPA appears to be resolute in its calculated commitment to undermining American energy and our economy. While I think EPA’s ethanol fuel blend decision this week was a small step in the right direction, the agency largely continues to impose its will through relentless regulatory policies at the expense of the American people. If these rules are implemented as proposed, many power plants across the country will be forced to ramp down production or close, reducing supply and increasing the cost of electricity for our businesses and families. I am an advocate for a healthy environment and stewardship, but unilateral mandates discourage cooperation by pitting economic interests against the environment. The two are not mutually exclusive. These efforts symbolize the blatant disconnect between the direction this Administration wants to go and the will of the American majority. From unaffordable insurance rates to higher utility bills to an out of control debt, the next presidential election could not come fast enough” Louisiana is one of 23 states that have filed legal challenges to the performance standards rule for new power plants and is one of 27 states challenging the Clean Power Plan for existing plants. ###
11.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Louisiana Congressmen Garret Graves, Charles W. Boustany, Jr., M.D., John Fleming, M.D. and Ralph Abraham, M.D. have introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to suspend the domestic influx of refugees from Syria until proper mechanisms are in place to verify that each refugee arriving does not pose a threat to the national security of the United States. Senator David Vitter introduced yesterday the Senate companion to the House bill. Louisiana's House delegation will collectively push this critical bill to help expedite its approval and enactment. “This legislation is about protecting the American people. The fact that we don’t have systems in place to properly vet these victims as they come across our border is an absolute failure of the Departments of State and Homeland Security and a disservice to the refugees of Syria,” said Graves. “I want to be clear – America has a role to play in aiding these victims of war, but we should not be choosing the safety and security of Syrian refugees over the safety and security of the American people. With proper vetting, we can have both. Until we can demonstrate the ability to verify each refugee’s background and intention, there should not be one more admission into the United States.” Congressional pressure calling on President Obama to halt his plan to admit as many as 10,000 refugees has increased after it was confirmed that at least one of the terrorists involved in last Friday’s Paris attacks entered France posing as a Syrian refugee. “While the United States is a kind and charitable nation, we are not naïve. President Obama has not demonstrated that he has a thorough and fail-proof system of background checks to prevent terrorists from reaching our shores through the refugee program. Until then, I will advocate shutting down the admission of refugees from this region until we can look the American people in the eye and promise them they will be safe,” said Boustany. "Even as we desire to show compassion to Syrians who have been displaced by civil war and ISIS, we must not allow terrorists to exploit refugee resettlement programs, especially after the Obama Administration recently announced he would bring in 10,000 refugees by next year. Until Congress can certify the backgrounds of all these refugees, we need to put a pause on the admission of any new refugees from the area. The federal government must protect its citizens first,” said Fleming. "Not a single Syrian refugee should be allowed in this country and into Louisiana without us knowing the full extent of his or her background and associations. Without a more stringent vetting process of these refugees, we open ourselves to a potential terrorist attack, and I will not gamble with American lives. I commend Sen. David Vitter and Rep. Garret Graves for introducing this legislation, and I look forward to helping them pass this bill that is critical to our national security,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
11.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) issued the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline: “Once again, we see the Obama Administration placing politics above sound policy. The Keystone Pipeline would have created thousands of good paying jobs and increased U.S. energy security. For a state like Louisiana, a leader in energy production, this news is the latest in a string of decisions out of the White House that seem to target our economy. It's increasingly clear that this Administration does not care about the hard working men and women in the energy industry. This decision will produce two outcomes: a rise in the volume of oil being transported by rail, which is more susceptible to spills than pipelines, and the continued energy dependence on Iran and other nations that do not share US values." ###
10.27.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R –South Louisiana) released the following statement today as a U.S. budget deal heads toward quick action in Congress: “While some of the provisions in this proposal are positive, like entitlement reform and a reduction in domestic spending, I’ve got strong concerns about the process of putting this deal together and the proposed mechanisms to pay for it, especially related to energy policy. This increasing trend of attempting to sell America’s oil in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) absent an updated energy security strategy is idiotic. This was done on the 21st Century Cures Act, highway bill and now proposed as part of the two-year budget deal with the White House. OPEC’s efforts to flood global oil markets have contributed to an America that is bleeding energy jobs as depressed energy prices are forcing companies to slow production. Now we are going to compound the problem by dumping 58,000,000 barrels of SPR oil into flooded markets? Finally, only an entity as stupid as the federal government would buy oil at $75 a barrel, sell it at $45 then cook the books like you sold it at $90. If anything, we should be purchasing oil right now while prices are low. We are in fundamentally different times today and our SPR and national energy security policies need a full update. We need to determine the right target for our national energy reserves and need to update the strategy based upon conditions today – including the role alternative energy sources can play in improving our energy security and resilience. We are actively reviewing the bill on its merits, but the American people are tired of gimmicks and have been crystal clear about our need to get our budget in order.” ###
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) responded today to President Obama’s decision to veto H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), the bipartisan defense policy bill that provides improved pay, retirement, health coverage, housing and other benefits to our troops and their families. “This veto is a threat to our national, homeland and personal security and absolutely sends the wrong message to the brave men and women who risk their lives every day to defend this nation,” said Rep. Graves. “At a time when America faces national security challenges on multiple fronts, we cannot afford to let politics jeopardize our ability to protect ourselves from foreign and domestic enemies. The president’s decision to withhold critical resources that would provide our military the support it needs to successfully carry out its mission is just the latest in a string of bad decisions characteristic of this Administration’s failed security policies.” The legislation provides resources for a strong national defense and supports our troops in the following ways: Reinforces the mission to defeat ISIL Addresses Russian aggression through increased funding for U.S. intelligence and warning capabilities Enhances the Retirement System by providing additional options to service members Improves pay and other benefits for our troops and their families, including a 1.3% pay raise Streamlines DOD’s broken acquisition system through improved accountability Empowers Commanders to permit members of the Armed forces to carry firearms at DOD installations, reserve centers and recruiting centers by 12/31/15 ###
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana Louisiana) released the following statement after the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) decided by a 6-0 unanimous decision that Mexico’s sugar industry harmed American producers by dumping subsidized sugar onto the U.S. market: “This decision by the ITC confirms what we all knew and will help to level the playing field for our farmers. It is unfortunate that many countries continue to use illegal tactics to distort competition in the agriculture, seafood and other industries” Graves continued: “Sugarcane production is major economic driver in Louisiana, employing thousands of people across the State. Illegal dumping and illegal subsidies by foreign countries is a direct threat to our economy, and I’m encouraged that yesterday’s vote recognizes that fact. To be clear, I am a proponent of free trade but I believe that free trade must be fair trade. Louisiana can compete and win on a level playing field. The existing trade framework among Canada, Mexico and the United States was specifically designed to prevent subsidies and dumping to ensure fairness – a feature absolutely critical to free and fair trade.” ###
10.21.2015	Washington, DC - The Office of Gulf Coast Restoration in the Department of the Treasury this week announced plans to award over $4 million to the Water Institute of the Gulf through the Louisiana Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana (CPRA). These funds are part of the Center of Excellence program established by the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act (RESTORE Act). “The Water Institute is a game changer in Louisiana’s battle against coastal erosion. The Center of Excellence designation and initial $4 million in research and development funding will provide key resources to help guide our oil spill and other investments to advance the Louisiana Coastal Master Plan and resilience of our communities and ecosystem. We established the Water Institute to help pull together all of the extensive expertise and lessons learned across South Louisiana. The Institute’s concentration of expertise across public, private, not for profit and academic coastal sectors will help accelerate our progress through the development of innovative solutions for the dynamic challenges along the coast. It will help ensure decisions are based upon the best science rather than politics,” said U.S. Rep. Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana). The center of excellence will focus its work on science, technology, and monitoring relating to four of the five eligible RESTORE Act disciplines that include: - Coastal and deltaic sustainability, restoration, and protection - Coastal fisheries and wildlife ecosystem research and monitoring in the Gulf Coast Region - Sustainable, resilient growth and economic development in the Gulf Coast Region - Comprehensive observation, monitoring, and mapping of the Gulf of Mexico Louisiana’s Centers of Excellence Research Grant of $4,036,238 totals its currently available allocation of the proceeds received from the settlement between Transocean and the Department of Justice arising from Deepwater Horizon oil spill civil penalties paid after July 6, 2012 under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund interest earnings. Significantly more funding are expected for the Water Institute as a result of the recent settlement announcement associated with BP’s role in the Deepwater Horizon disaster. ###
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – The House Natural Resources Committee announced that it will hold a hearing later this month on H.R. 3094 – the Gulf States Red Snapper Management Authority Act (GSRSMA), legislation that Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) introduced earlier this year to transfer management of the Gulf red snapper fishery from the federal government to the five Gulf States. Under GSRSMA, fish and wildlife agencies of the five Gulf States would use public input to develop and implement a coordinated, science-based fishery management plan. “The current management regime is a complete failure and the federal government’s science is not providing an accurate picture of the health of the fishery,” said Graves. “This is an opportunity to harness the Gulf State agencies’ expertise to improve access for the enormous recreational fishing community in South Louisiana and the Gulf South while sustainably managing our fisheries. I’m looking forward to this hearing and to adopting a species management model that is sustainable and fair.” Congressman Graves’s bi-partisan legislation currently has 26 cosponsors in the House of Representatives. The Full Committee hearing will take place on October 22, 2015 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. ###
10.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) released the following statement today after the Justice Department announced a final settlement with BP of $20.8 billion for its role in the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Graves said: “Months ago, an historic agreement in principle was announced between BP and state and federal agencies. The consent decree released today puts meat on the bones of that agreement and provides a court-enforced contract to hold BP accountable. This is an important step forward toward closure. I'd urge everyone with a stake in South Louisiana to take advantage of the 60-day comment period to help perfect this consent decree. In the meantime, we will continue working to compress the time frame of the payments and look at improvements to the law that would incorporate lessons learned from this disaster and the careless loss of life.”
09.25.2015	Washington - Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) today released the following statement after House Speaker John Boehner announced he would retire at the end of October. “Speaker of the House is an incredibly challenging job, particularly in today's environment of diverse political ideologies,” said Graves. “I want to thank John Boehner for his service and wish him the best of luck as he moves to the next chapter of his life. The voters were loud and clear in the 2014 elections and that message remains clear today. Our country is headed in the wrong direction, and they won't settle for anything short of change. We have the opportunity to get the right leadership team in place to achieve the change voters demand and deserve. Now is the time to move forward - toward the America we want for our children and grandchildren.”
07.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – Louisiana) released the following statement today upon passage of H.R. 427, the Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act of 2015 in the US House of Representatives: “The growth of power in the executive branch we’ve seen the past several years through unilateral regulations has been astounding. These regulations are backdoor taxes that disproportionately hurt Louisiana by strangling businesses, hurting families and stifling growth in our economy. It’s estimated that the cost of complying with federal regulations is approaching $1.75 trillion; new regulations issued last year alone came with a price tag of $181 billion. This is good legislation that will ensure our system of checks and balances is in place with respect to these major regulations and will prohibit the president’s ability to circumvent the Congress.”
07.16.2015	Washington DC – Congressmen Garret Graves (R-South Louisiana) today introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that would transfer management of the red snapper fishery from the federal government to the five Gulf States. Under the Gulf States Red Snapper Management Authority (GSRSMA) Act fish and wildlife agencies of the five Gulf States would use public input to develop and implement a coordinated, science-based fishery management plan. “For years, the federal government has restricted our anglers’ access to a public resource, limiting the ability of private citizens in South Louisiana and across the Gulf Coast to enjoy red snapper,” said Graves. “When I was growing up, we could fish snapper year round; this year’s recreational season was just 10 days. Our state-based approach will eliminate failed federal fish management that saw only one weekend of red snapper fishing in federal waters, while preventing overfishing.” To ensure the continued protection of access for the commercial fishing industry, the Act includes provisions to protect current individual quota shares for the commercial sector, maintains federal control over existing commercial fish harvests for a minimum of three years and requires that any significant reduction in access to the commercial sector would require approval by the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council. “Fishing for red snapper is a part of the cultural heritage of our Sportsman’s Paradise, a heritage that is shared between private anglers and commercial fishermen who supply Louisiana’s exceptional seafood to restaurants across the country,” Graves added. “It’s our responsibility to ensure current and future generations can benefit from a healthy and sustainable stock.” The move to state-based management will result in more frequent stock assessments and improved regional collaboration in the collection and use of timely fishery data. Taken as a whole, the GSRSMA Act would codify the five Gulf States regional management strategy, resulting in improved management of Gulf Red Snapper for the betterment of the commercial and recreational sectors and the entire regional economy. State-based management of federal fisheries has been successfully implemented on the East Coast as well as in Alaska over the past decades. The Graves proposal is widely supported by industry stakeholders. “As original cosponsors of the Gulf States Red Snapper Management Authority Act, all four House leaders of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, along with sixteen other CSC Members, recognize the need for a different approach to management of Gulf Red Snapper,” noted Congressional Sportsmen's Foundation President Jeff Crane. “They, like the states, are frustrated with seeing public access to a healthy Gulf red snapper fishery continually eroded under federal management.” “For too long, the federal government has relied on outdated and inaccurate information to unfairly limit recreational Gulf red snapper fishing to just a single weekend a year,” said Jeff Angers, president of the Center for Coastal Conservation. “Representative Graves’ bill will improve recreational fishing opportunities and safeguard the thousands of Gulf jobs that depend on recreational Red Snapper fishing.” “As we all know, management of red snapper has been a significant problem over the past several years, effectively placing recreational anglers on the sidelines. CCA believes that state management will be better for the species and for all stakeholders, including recreational anglers,” said David Cresson, CEO of Coastal Conservation Association Louisiana. “Our sincere gratitude goes out to Reps. Graves and Miller for their vision and leadership on this critical issue.” "The sportfishing industry and anglers across the nation strongly appreciate the leadership demonstrated by Congressman Graves and the sponsors of this bipartisan bill. The current Federal fishery management system for Red Snapper just does not work for the public. It needs to be changed," said Scott Gudes, Vice President of the American Sportfishing Association. “As a state fisheries management agency, we are dedicated to managing our public resources for the benefit of fish, fishermen, and our coastal communities and economies and have been effectively doing so for years. Louisiana and the other Gulf states are ready and able to take on management of this valuable resource—we can provide the precise, real-time data and flexible measures needed to responsibly manage this valuable fishery,” said Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Secretary, Robert Barham. The legislation is co-sponsored by Representatives Jeff Miller (R-FL), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Austin Scott (R-GA), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Charles W. Boustany Jr. MD (R-LA), Ralph Abraham MD (R-LA), Steven Palazzo (R-MS), Rob Wittman (R-VA), Pete Olson (R-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Dan Benishek (R-MI), Jody Hice (R-SC), Billy Long (R-MO), Brian Babin (R-TX), Paul Cook (R-CA), Tim Walz (D-MN), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Robert Latta (R-OH) and Buddy Carter (R-GA) . The bill is endorsed by: ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C — Congressman Garret Graves (R- South Louisiana) issued the following statement after President Obama’s announced that it had reached a final agreement in nuclear negotiations with Iran: "Iran has a well-documented track record of working against American interests. From kidnapping Americans, funding terrorism in Syria, Iraq and Yemen to vowing to wipe Israel – our strongest ally in the region – off the map, Iran has been a catalyst of instability in the Middle East region. Despite the president’s claim that this deal is ‘not built on trust, but on verification,’ it’s hard to view Iran as a cooperative negotiating partner. Congress now has the opportunity to read the agreement and make an informed decision, but I will not support any deal that gives Iran a smoother path to a nuclear weapon, which will exacerbate regional instability and jeopardize American national security interests."
07.08.2015	Washington DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed an amendment to the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act offered by Rep. Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) that will require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to comply with the same wetlands protection standards that are imposed on private property owners by the agency. “Americans are tired of two standards – a standard whereby our private property owners are faced with one set of costly and burdensome regulations while the federal government simply ignores the law,” said Graves. “Nowhere is this more evident than with the Corps of Engineers. Let’s be clear, actions of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are the single largest cause of wetlands loss in this country and their continued mismanagement of the Mississippi River system makes our coastal communities more vulnerable every day. Hurricane Katrina was clear evidence of this. Further, the loss of wetlands adversely affects the fisheries, birds and health of the Gulf of Mexico. This double standard has got to stop”. Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) is the law establishing the federal government’s authority to protect wetlands. In most cases, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for administering the law, but the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has primary jurisdiction on enforcement of wetlands laws and can veto decisions of the Corps. When private property owners take action on their land that impacts wetlands – building a house, expanding a driveway, constructing a fence - they are required to mitigate and pay for that impact. This process is very expensive, particularly in South Louisiana. In recent years, the Corps has increased these wetlands mitigation requirements on private property owners while repeatedly granting different compliance guidelines for their own projects and activities. Further, the federal government recently finalized a definition of “Waters of the United States” that will result in a significant expansion of federal government authority over private property as it relates to rivers, streams, drainage and wetlands. At a time when the federal government seeks to expand wetlands jurisdiction, Cong. Graves offered his amendment to highlight the hypocrisy of the Corps management practices and to put an end to the double standard. “To watch the federal government continue to purport to be good stewards of our environment and heap costly regulations upon our citizens and businesses then continue to destroy hundreds of square miles of our Sportsman’s Paradise is an extraordinary case of hypocrisy. If the protection of wetlands is so important to the Corps of Engineers, we are going to help them comply with their own rules. The reality is, there on the hook for billions of dollars of damages.” added Graves. “They made their bed, now they are going to lie in it.” A majority of the 1,900 square miles of coastal wetlands loss in Louisiana can be attributed to Corps of Engineers’ management of the Lower Mississippi River System through the construction of levees and other structures. Louisiana used to grow by three quarters of a square mile a year through the process of accretion. Since the Corps assumed management of the river, Louisiana now loses on average 26 square miles a year. Graves concluded, “ Any citizen or business carrying out similar actions would be in jail right now.”
07.02.2015	Baton Rouge, LA – The five Gulf States, local governments and federal agencies reached a global “agreement in principle” for nearly $19 billion to address outstanding claims against BP associated with the Deepwater Horizon disaster and oil spill. Total restoration and recovery funds associated with Louisiana’s natural resources, loss of taxes, and associated civil fines are estimated to reach $10 billion (including previously announced settlements).* “Louisiana’s Gulf is one of the largest energy producing areas in the nation and one of the most productive commercial fishing areas in the country. We literally power this nation’s economy and put food on America’s table. There could not have been a worse place to have a record-setting oil spill,” said Graves. “With today’s settlement agreement, we’re finally seeing the light at the end of the tunnel of this five-year disaster.” The April 20, 2010 oil spill resulted in up to five million barrels of oil being released into the Gulf of Mexico for months. Additional oil releases and oil mats resulting from the Macondo well were reported in subsequent years (as recent as March 2015 in Louisiana). “It is far time that we put this disaster behind us and start the recovery process. I commend the Department of Justice and the State of Louisiana for sticking to their guns here. Our economy, our culture and our future are all tied to the health of the Gulf. There is no room for compromise,” added Graves. “The 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster was one of the worst environmental disasters in our nation’s history. It resulted in the loss of 11 lives and has caused significant damages to our state. It is only fitting that the largest settlement in U.S. history result from this disaster. Now, it is time to move on.” Graves urged compressed payment terms saying, “We had to wait months to stop the unconstrained flow of oil, three years to begin picking up oil mats, five years for a settlement agreement and now a 15-year payment term. I strongly urge BP to expedite payments. Let’s put this behind us.” Payments to the State of Louisiana are estimated to top $500 million a year over a 15-year period – largely committed to the state’s coastal master plan. Prior to being elected to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives in December of 2014, Graves served as Louisiana’s lead trustee representing the state before BP, the Natural Resources Damage Assessment Council and the RESTORE Council from 2010-2014. He played a key role in negotiations during that time and continued to play an advisory role in the judicial and settlement processes. This agreement only affects public claims, fines and penalties resulting from damages to natural resources, violations of various federal and state laws. It also includes economic damages affecting numerous towns, cities, counties and parishes across the Gulf of Mexico. Today’s announcement does not affect any private or individual claims against BP or other parties resulting from the Deepwater Horizon disaster. The agreement includes the following payments by BP: $5.5 Billion for Clean Water Act civil penalties (RESTORE Act applies to these funds) Louisiana is expected to receive approximately $800 million in addition to a portion of funds to be allocated by the RESTORE Council $8.1 Billion for Natural Resource Damages (includes $1 billion in previously-negotiated “early restoration”) Texas: $238 Million Louisiana: $5 Billion Mississippi: $295 Million Alabama: $295 Million Florida: $680 Million Gulf Regionwide Projects: $350 Million Open Ocean Projects: $1.24 Billion $4.9 Billion in Economic Claims Texas: $150 Million Louisiana: $1 Billion Mississippi: $750 Million Alabama: $1 Billion Florida: $2 Billion $1 Billion for local government economic claims in the five Gulf States $350 Million in Natural Resource Damage Assessment Costs $250 Million in other Federal Claims The payments will be made over a 15-year period and additional interest payments are due in the 16th year. Negotiators will take the next few months to translate the agreement into a consent decree to be submitted to the court. *Previous settlement agreements related to the Deepwater Horizon disaster include: April 21, 2011, an unprecedented $1 billion early restoration agreement was announced that resulted in BP funding numerous restoration projects across the Gulf of Mexico. February 17, 2012, MOEX agreed to a $90 million settlement to address some of the company’s civil liabilities. November 14, 2012, a $4.5 billion criminal settlement was reached with BP. January 3, 2013, a $1.4 billion criminal and civil fine settlement was reached with Transocean, the well operator. ###
06.04.2015	Washington, DC – The House of Representatives approved legislation today by Cong. Garret Graves (R- South Louisiana) and Cong. Austin Scott (R-GA) that would dramatically improve conditions for recreational fishing of Red Snapper in the Gulf of Mexico. Included in H.R. 2578, the FY16 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act the legislation is an amendment written by Rep. Graves in collaboration with Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) that prohibits the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration from using any funds to enforce Amendment 40 to the Fishery Management Plan for the Reef Fish Resources of the Gulf of Mexico, a controversial rule that divides the recreational Red Snapper fishing sector into private boat anglers and charter/for-hire, effectively creating three distinct sectors: commercial, charter/for-hire and private angler. In addition to defunding sector separation, the amendment also prohibits funds to be used to enact any Red Snapper Management Measure that would allow an annual catch limit for Red Snapper resulting in the commercial Red Snapper fishing season to last longer than five times the number of days allowed for recreational fishing. This comes two days after Graves secured assurances from House leadership to take action on his pending legislation to transfer Red Snapper management to the five Gulf States. “For the first time in many, many years, this is a win for recreational fishermen. Our amendment will ensure that our recreational fishers have the opportunity to enjoy Red Snapper,” said Graves. “Earlier this week, we passed the Magnuson-Stevens fisheries bill to improve the science used to sustainably manage our Gulf resources. Together, these bills will prevent the federal government from limiting recreational fishing to 10 days while continuing to protect our commercial and charter fishing industries.” The underlying bill funds the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and other related agencies. The legislation contains $51.4 billion for effective, proven programs within the Departments of Justice and Commerce, as well as NASA and the National Science Foundation. While targeting funding at programs that are vital to for economic development, public safety and national security, H.R. 2578 makes reductions to several lower-priority programs for a savings of over $400 million compared to fiscal year 2015, and it rescinds $375 million in unused prior year funds. ###
05.07.2015	Baton Rouge, LA – Congressman Charles W. Boustany, Jr., M.D., (R-South Louisiana) and Congressman Garret Graves (R- South Louisiana) will host a Roundtable Discussion on the Health Insurance Tax (HIT) Repeal Act, in Baton Rouge on Friday, May 8. WHO: Congressman Charles W. Boustany, Jr., MD, Congressman Garret Graves, Dawn Starns (NFIB Louisiana), Ted Firnsburg (School Aids), Clay Pinson (Massengale), Pat Felder (Felder Collision Parts), John Overton (Turnkey Solutions), Renee Amar (LA Association of Business and Industry), Michelle Shirley (LA Homebuilders Association), John Walters (Association of Builders and Contractors), Todd Waguespack (Level Homes) WHAT:Stop the HIT Roundtable Discussion WHEN: Friday, May 8, 2015, 10:00 – 11:00 am WHERE:Level Construction Board Room, 450 Main St., Baton Rouge, LA 70801 Additional Information: The HIT is a provision included within ObamaCare that is a direct tax on health insurance providers for the services they provide to individuals, families, and other beneficiaries. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), this tax is passed on to consumers in the form of higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs. The Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) estimates that eliminating this tax by 2016 could save families $350 to $400 in premium costs. Conversely, a study by economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin shows that over 10 years, the HIT could increase the average family premium by $5,000. According to the National Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation, the HIT will cost between 152,000 and 286,000 lost jobs by 2023, with 57% of those lost jobs represented in small businesses, and between $20 billion and $33 billion in lost economic activity. The cost of the tax in 2014, the first year of its implementation, was $8 billion – but that number will climb to $14.3 billion by 2018. JCT estimates that the cost of the tax will reach $100 billion over the next decade.
05.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – South Louisiana) voted to prohibit the implementation of the controversial Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE) proposed rule that defines “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) today as part of the House’s passage of H.R. 2028, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016. The EPA’s proposed WOTUS rule redefines the meaning of waters of the United States, resulting in a significant expansion of federal regulatory powers that will directly affect the private property of millions of American. In South Louisiana, it would give the federal government unilateral authority to require expensive wetlands mitigation resulting from activities such as building a home or small business. This could add hundreds of thousands of dollars per acre to the cost of construction or other development projects on private property. “This Administration continues to demonstrate an insatiable appetite for expanding regulations to broaden the jurisdictional footprints of its agencies. The proposed “Waters of the US” rule would infringe upon the rights of private property owners and have a devastating impact on small businesses and economic development projects in South Louisiana,” commented Graves. “Today, we once again send a strong message to the White House that Congress will not stand for policies that expand the reach of the federal government, diminish the liberties of hardworking Americans and stifle economic activity in this country.” ###
05.01.2015	Thibodaux, La. - Congressman Garret Graves (R- South Louisiana) officially opened his Thibodaux District Office this week. The office is located on the campus of Nicholls State University in Candies Hall. The physical address is 908 East 1st Street, Candies Hall, Suite 405. “Constituent service and access are a top priority. The Bayou Region is critically important to Louisiana’s economy and cultural heritage, and it is important that members of this community have a convenient channel to get in touch with their Congressman,” said Graves. Nicholls State University President, Bruce Murphy joined other parish officials and constituents to welcome the Congressman and his staff to campus. "Having a Congressional district office at Nicholls will provide Bayou Region residents with convenient access to their U.S. representative and provide Nicholls students with opportunities to learn about more the legislative process,” commented Dr. Murphy. Congressman Graves’s District Director, David Cavell, will be headquartered at the Thibodaux office. David, a native of Thibodaux, previously served as a district representative for former Congressman Bill Cassidy. Congressman Graves has district offices in Baton Rouge, Livingston and Thibodaux. The addresses and contact information for each can be found here. ###
02.17.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Garret Graves (R – La) offered the following comments today after United States District Judge Andrew S. Hanen issued a preliminary injunction blocking President Obama's unilateral actions on immigration late Monday evening: “Judge Hanen’s ruling to halt the deportation amnesty program is an important first step to rein in this president’s latest attempt to trample the Constitution via abuse of executive action, and it’s proof that our government’s system of checks and balances works. The president’s unilateral action on immigration is a blatant overreach of executive power and out of step with the will of the majority of people across our country. I am hopeful that this ruling will encourage the Senate to take seriously the opportunity before them to fund DHS and permanently thwart the Administration’s unconstitutional scheme.” ### Contact: Kevin Roig, 202-225-3901
01.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Garret Graves (LA-06) was named Vice Chair for the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee this week. The appointment comes as a nod to Representative Graves’s significant maritime and coastal policy experience, and in the role, Graves will have jurisdiction over the US Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agencies – both of which oversee programs of concern to the Subcommittee. Graves’s other T&I subcommittee assignments include the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation and Highways and Transit Subcommittees. Graves will also serve on the Energy and Mineral Resources and Public Lands subcommittees, which both fall under the House Committee on Natural Resources. Representative Graves’ subcommittee assignments are of particular importance because of their role in coastal restoration, flood control, hurricane protection, energy production, wetlands regulation, ports and water navigation channels development, and surface transit – all issues uniquely important to South Louisiana. “Being vice chairman puts us in the room for key bills, helps us shape the subcommittees’ agenda and gives me the opportunity to engage witnesses right after the chairman,” Graves remarked. “Combined with my other assignments, I am best positioned to address local issues like our traffic concerns and promoting our energy and maritime economy.” House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster added, “Representative Graves’s subcommittee assignments are a great fit for him, the subcommittees and for Louisiana. His congressional and legislative experience in the areas of transportation and coastal policy coupled with the years of experience he has as a military liaison will enable him to immediately bring a valuable perspective to the process. Considering the unique opportunities and challenges faced by Louisiana, the people of his district will be served well by his insight.” ### Contact: Kevin Roig: 202-225-3901
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Garret Graves (LA06) reacted to President Obama’s 7th State of the Union speech tonight. “The president addressed a number of issues that are important to the families of South Louisiana including closing tax loopholes, protecting Americans from cyber-attacks, online privacy for our kids, and trade promotion authority for our ports and river system. Unfortunately, his speech centered on the same policies that have saddled Americans with increased regulatory burdens, more bureaucracy, rising costs and an expansion of the federal government into almost every aspect of American life. His economic proposals are exactly what the American people voted against in November. Increasing taxes to fund new government spending is not turning the page; it’s a continuation of an approach to governing that says the federal government knows best and leaves the taxpayer holding the bag. Nationalizing our education system and calling it free community college, increasing taxes and spending, mandating how a business should manage its workforce, and threatening to veto legislation that contradicts a big government agenda is not the “right thing to do.” I am committed to advancing solutions that increase opportunity for all Americans - ideas that create good jobs and better wages, and that lower healthcare, energy and education costs. The best thing that the government can do is reduce the tax and regulatory burden on ordinary people who go to work every day to care for their families and pay the bills. For all of his talk of unity and collaborative politics, the president has already threatened to veto four jobs bills that have passed the House with bipartisan support. I was hopeful that we would see the president ready to respond to the mandate of the American public on Nov. 4th. Rather than leading the march of the American people away from the status quo, the president made it clear he intends to continue to march to the beat of his own drum.” ###
