02.05.2019	Washington, DC – Following President Donald J. Trump’s second State of the Union Address Tuesday evening, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee Richard E. Neal released the following response. “While I am happy to hear President Trump speak this evening about the importance of unity, I am dismayed at the lack of any kind of bipartisanship during the first two years of his presidency. There are many areas where Democrats and Republicans can find common ground and we must work toward them. “Improving our aging infrastructure is one and I am glad that the conversation has continued to include this top priority of mine. During his first State of the Union, President Trump vowed to allocate $1.5 trillion in advancements to our infrastructure. Since that time, I have continuously met with Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin to make this a reality. Our roadways, bridges, water and power lines, and airports are in desperate need of repair. Including broadband connectivity into this package makes sense for constituencies like the First District of Massachusetts who is still not entirely connected. “As Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, I have remained vigilant to protecting the middle class by holding hearings about things that matter to them: ensuring those with pre-existing conditions have access to good, affordable health care; addressing the nation’s impending retirement crisis; discussing and finding solutions to the rising cost of prescription drugs; and strategizing on how to fix the tax bill that caters only to the country’s most wealthy. “In unity there is strength, and I continue to stand at the ready to unify with the Administration and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for the common good of the constituents we proudly serve.” ##
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) issued the following joint statement today on the Trump Administration’s proposed rule to overhaul the current rebate system: “The Trump Administration’s rebate proposal will increase government spending by nearly $200 billion and the majority of Medicare beneficiaries will see their premiums and total out-of-pocket costs increase if this proposal is finalized. While we agree that the cost of prescription drugs must be addressed, we are concerned that this is not the right approach.” ###
01.31.2019	Chicopee, MA – United States Congressman Richard E. Neal joined Brig. Gen. D. Scott Durham, commander 439th Airlift Wing, Westover Air Reserve Base and Chicopee Mayor Richard Kos for the announcement of $42.6 million from the Department of Defense. This funding, directed through Section 125 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2019 and authorized in the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), will be used to construct a regional ISO maintenance hangar on Westover Air Reserve Base. “As a conferee chosen by leadership to reconcile the House and Senate versions of the NDAA, it was imperative that the best interest of Westover was kept in mind,” said Congressman Neal. “I have advocated for this state-of-the-art facility throughout my tenure in Congress. It will replace the current 70-year-old hangar and better equip Westover to fulfill its mission now and into the future.” “The new facility will expand maintenance capability for the entire Air Force fleet of 55 C-5M Super Galaxys,” said William C. Pope, Chief of Westover Public Affairs. “It’s important to remember that not only do our crews maintain and operate Westover’s eight C-5s, we also conduct required inspections for all C-5s stationed throughout the Air Force.” According to Pope, this will enable crews to work inside, and reduce inspection and maintenance turn-around times on the largest aircraft in the U.S. military and one of the largest in the world. “This new facility will insure that the base is kept up to date and viable for the foreseeable future,” said Pope. “The continued federal commitment to Westover’s infrastructure is greatly appreciated for what it means to our air reserve base and to our region,” said Mayor Kos. This funding is part of $84.8 million in nationwide projects overseen by the Air Force Reserves. ##
01.30.2019	Springfield, MA – Congressman Richard E. Neal, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, Patrick J. Sullivan, Executive Director of Parks, Building and Recreation Management and the Springfield Park Commission announce major funding to renovate Ruth Elizabeth Park, located between Hancock and Walnut Streets. Funding for the renovations is made possible by a $200,000.00 grant from the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and $250,000.00 from a Community Development Block Grant. The grant funding will allow the City of Springfield to create a Connector Trail between 6 urban parks - Harriet Tubman, Donna Blake, Barrows, Gerrish, Johnny Appleseed and Forest Parks. The project will greatly enhance the Ruth Elizabeth Park with improved infrastructure such an enhanced ADA accessible and universal access park entrance and interior walking path, walking trail improvements, and trailhead amenities, such as trail signage and wayfinding to connect these area parks. The project will include detailing the history of this area of Springfield along an open space urban trail that connects these parks using mapping and street signs. The project will be funded by the LWCF grant award of $200,000 and an additional $250,000 from Community Development Block Grant funding for a total project cost of $450,000. Design development will begin in February and the project will be bid for a construction start of July 1, 2019. The anticipated completion date is June 1, 2020. Mayor Domenic J. Sarno stated, “The City is grateful to the Land and Water Conservation Fund and the Community Development Block Grant for providing the funding for this project and the city is excited to begin renovations to Ruth Elizabeth Park. The project will ensure we recognize the strong significance this area of the City has played and allow our residents of all ages to appreciate the importance of their neighborhood. The improvements will be a welcome addition to the Six Corners/Maple High, Old Hill and Forest Park neighborhoods. This grant was important for the residents of the Maple High Neighborhood as it allows the City to ensure we finish the restoration of this park that was devastated by the 2011 tornado. This is a great opportunity to complete this important restoration for Ruth Elizabeth Park.” “This federal grant from the National Park Service is helping to fund a very significant recreational project in the City of Springfield. When completed, the renovations to Ruth Elizabeth Park will help improve a vibrant urban open space that the residents of the Maple High/Six Corners neighborhoods. The investment in the public park system is known as ‘green infrastructure’ and it greatly improves the quality of life for the citizens of our community. I congratulate Mayor Sarno and his team for their leadership on this important local project,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. Brian Santaniello, Park Commission Chairman stated, “This is great news for the park patrons of Ruth Elizabeth. The park improvements will ensure for quality open space opportunities. By local, state, federal government and the business community working together, we can make great things happen for our City. I would also like to extend a special thank you to our Mayor who continues to find the funding to improve our park system.” “We are very excited for this project to move forward. We have worked with the residents of the Maple High Six Corners over the past seven years in developing a master plan for this park. We appreciate the Community Development Block Grant funds administered by Cathy Buono and Congressman Neal’s efforts in restoring funding of the Federal Land and Water Conservation funds. These funds are a lifeline to urban park systems. The grant award is a tribute to everyone’s hard work and input in developing a comprehensive plan for this urban park. The soccer field/multi use field (phase one) was completed last fall and we look forward to starting phase two of the plan this summer. We will continue to search future grant resources to complete the master plan. This park offers a positive setting for recreation for all ages and is a key component in ensuring the quality of life for the residents of the City,” said Executive Director of PBRM Patrick Sullivan. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Citing the negative fiscal effects of the Republican tax law and the recent government shutdown, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) today sent a letter to Department of Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin asking when the Trump Administration plans to request that Congress raise the debt limit and prevent the first-ever default on the full faith and credit of the United States. In his letter, Chairman Neal pointed out that “the current suspension of the debt limit will expire after March 1, 2019 and after that point Treasury will need to meet our nation’s financial obligations using cash on hand and ‘extraordinary measures’ previously authorized by Congress.” The Republican tax law “caused a significant drop in revenue, from 17.2 percent of GDP in 2017 to 16.4 percent of GDP in 2018, and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projects that, as a share of GDP, revenue will remain well below the 2017 level for several years,” noted Chairman Neal. He added that, “in addition to disrupting government services to individuals, farmers, and businesses, costing taxpayers billions of dollars, and putting hundreds of thousands of hard-working federal employees and contractors at risk of financial ruin, the recent partial government shutdown also reduced GDP and disrupted Internal Revenue Service (IRS) operations, which may result in revenue falling even lower than projected.” Specifically, Chairman Neal requested Secretary Mnuchin’s response include what adjustment to the debt limit is needed for the United States to meet its obligations, and by what date the Ways & Means Committee and Congress will need to act on the matter. Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA), House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Adam Schiff (D-CA), and House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement after the Treasury Department lifted sanctions against companies tied to Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska on January 27: “We are deeply troubled by the decision of the Department of the Treasury to move forward with lifting sanctions against En+, Rusal, and EuroSibEnergo (ESE) – businesses tied to sanctioned Russian oligarch and close Putin ally Oleg Deripaska – before Congress had the opportunity to review the terms of this deal thoroughly, and despite a reasonable request for a brief delay. Mr. Deripaska has a history of involvement with Moscow for malign purposes, and we have serious questions about whether the agreement reached between Treasury and Mr. Deripaska sufficiently divests him of resources for this ability. “As we informed Secretary Mnuchin in a January 8 letter, Treasury’s notification of the lifting of sanctions was delivered to Congress just before an extended recess and a government shutdown. These factors prevented us from completing our review under the 30-day period provided under CAATSA. Secretary Mnuchin had an opportunity to right that misstep by providing an extension for congressional review but chose nevertheless to move forward with delisting, despite clear concerns with the deal in the House and the Senate; numerous outstanding information requests from Members; and an overwhelming bipartisan vote against delisting these companies in the House on January 17. “We are considering additional legislative actions to ensure that Treasury and these companies comply with the agreement in letter and in spirit, and to prevent something like this from happening again in the future. More importantly, we will continue our oversight of Treasury’s decision by examining the terms of this deal and its implementation to safeguard against harmful actors like Mr. Deripaska benefitting from the Treasury’s delisting decisions. We do not believe termination of the sanctions has relieved Treasury of its obligation to explain fully this deal to Members.” ###
01.29.2019	(As prepared for delivery) Thank you to everyone for being here today for the Ways and Means Committee’s first policy hearing in the 116th Congress. And warm welcome to new members of the committee on both sides of the aisle. I am honored to be the 67th Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. I take this position, and the history and prestige of this committee, very seriously. I look forward to considering policies that will have a positive impact on the future of our nation and on all American families. Today we will discuss an issue that affects nearly every American family – preexisting conditions and their impact on health care coverage. Over 130 million Americans have a pre-existing condition and protecting them goes to the core of safeguarding heath care for all Americans. What insurance companies consider to be pre-existing conditions can be anything from asthma, to cancer, to even pregnancy. Before the Affordable Care Act – which is the current law of the land –Americans faced significant hardship when trying to purchase adequate health care coverage. Insurance companies could refuse coverage altogether, charge excessive fees, place dollar limits on the amount of care Americans receive. Insurers could even discriminate against patients with even common health care issues such as diabetes or high blood pressure. But when the ACA became law, new safeguards went into place that put a stop to these practices. Our health care system’s protections really matter for American families’ peace of mind, and for their pocket books. But my colleagues across the aisle have a different view. Despite their repeated claims to support protections for people with pre-existing conditions, their actions directly contradict those statements. They’re leading ongoing efforts to undermine or eliminate the current law’s protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. This is the wrong course of action. Between the Trump Administration’s efforts to chip away at the law and the 18 Republican Attorneys’ General who are actively trying to sabotage the law through the courts, pre-existing condition protections are on tenuous ground. As one of the first actions in the 116th Congress, my colleagues and I moved to intervene in the GOP lawsuit and defend our current law’s pre-existing condition safeguards. I am pleased to join Massachusetts and other Democratic Attorneys’ General who are defending consumers and fighting for Americans with pre-existing conditions. Let me be clear, the ongoing sabotage of our health care system is having a direct impact on the finances of Americans across this country and is creating uncertainty for one-fifth of the U.S. economy. Four million Americans have lost health insurance coverage since President Trump took office. That's 4 million Americans who previously had insurance and now must pay their medical costs fully out of pocket or delay needed medical care. And earlier this month, the Administration acted to reduce the tax credits by $900 million while raising the out-of-pocket maximums by an additional $400 per family. I want to take a minute to share a story about one of my constituents who has been personally impacted by preexisting condition protection. Michael Finn is 48 years old and a state representative from West Springfield. He was diagnosed with Type II diabetes two years ago when he was 46 and was borderline diabetic for at least ten years but his condition went undiagnosed. Mike is married with three kids under the age of 10 and grateful to the ACA for allowing him to keep receiving treatment, medication, and care even though he has this preexisting condition. His wife is a stay-at-home mother, and Mike is the sole breadwinner in the household. If he were unable to work or unable to receive insurance assistance to help cover his healthcare costs, Mike doesn't know what he would do. We need to embrace policies that protect people like Mike. The law is currently clear, but there is opportunity to build upon it and stop the ongoing sabotage. I have seen in Massachusetts that we can work together across party lines to make sure Americans have coverage and to protect families from financial ruin. We need more of that in Congress, and I hope this hearing will be the beginning of that process. I am pleased our witnesses could join us today to share their personal experiences and thoughts on how protections for people with pre-existing conditions are essential. Our witnesses know that these safeguards can be the difference between getting needed medical assistance and forgoing necessary treatment – or the difference between accessing affordable care and losing a lifetime of savings just to stay alive. These protections mean the world to people – and they’re the law of the land. I’m glad we’ll be discussing them today. And with that I will turn to Ranking Member Brady for his opening statement. ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after cancelling tomorrow’s scheduled hearing on the impact of the government shutdown on the Treasury Department and American taxpayers: “As the government shutdown moves into its second month, Ways & Means members have many urgent concerns they’d like to raise with Treasury Secretary Mnuchin – that’s why I requested he appear before our committee tomorrow morning. The Secretary declined to come speak with us, so I am cancelling the hearing. With tax filing season beginning in five days and the timely issuing of taxpayer refunds at stake, we need to hear directly from the Secretary to gain greater clarity regarding the IRS’ capabilities during the shutdown. Reports indicate the agency is unprepared. We are also extremely worried about the wellbeing of the more than 70,000 Treasury employees who are about to miss their second paycheck in a row, including 45,000 employees who are expected to work without pay. We expect the Secretary to come answer our questions in the very near future.” ###
01.23.2019	Washington, DC -Representative Richard E. Neal (D-Mass.) and United States Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) applauded the enactment of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin Act, a bipartisan bill introduced by Senator Warren and the late Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.), along with Congressmen Neal and Andy Barr (R-Ky.) that would authorize the Treasury Department to mint a limited number of commemorative coins in 2020, at no cost to the taxpayer, to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the founding of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts. The bill, which passed both houses of Congress unanimously, was signed into law by President Trump on December 21, 2018. Founded in 1959 and named after the founder and creator of basketball, Dr. James Naismith, the Basketball of Hall of Fame is home to one of the largest collections of basketball memorabilia in the world - including over 30,000 three-dimensional objects, 800,000 photographs, and more than one million documents. The Hall has welcomed over six million visitors to learn the history and traditions of the game through stories and artifacts and connects with over seven million Americans per year through various programs and events. The education programs conducted by the Hall teach young people important subjects that apply beyond the basketball court, including financial literacy, math, civil rights, leadership, and geography. "The game of basketball was invented in the City of Springfield by Dr. James Naismith in December of 1891. Since its early days using peach baskets, the sport is now played by an estimated 450 million worldwide. And the history of the game is chronicled in a state-of-the-art Hall of Fame on the banks of the Connecticut River that is visited by thousands of people each year. I am proud to have lead the bipartisan effort in Congress to have the U.S. Treasury mint these commemoratives coins. They will help raise money for the Hall and continue to promote the sport internationally for generations to come," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "The Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame ensures that we honor the history of the game of basketball," said Senator Elizabeth Warren. "Minting these commemorative coins to celebrate the Hall's 60th anniversary will allow this legendary institution to strengthen investments in educational programs that include and transcend basketball. I'm proud to have partnered with Congressman Neal and the late Senator McCain on this bipartisan bill, and I am grateful to the Hall for its dedication to growing the sport across America and the world and for making Springfield, Massachusetts an epicenter for learning about the history of basketball." "The Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame is honored to have received unanimous approval from Congress to introduce a series of commemorative coins in 2020 that celebrate the great game of basketball invented in Springfield, Massachusetts by Dr. James Naismith. The game has rapidly spread across the globe and is played at all levels by men and women, and boys and girls around the world. It is a sport that offers significant opportunities to those who play and vast enjoyment for those who are fans. It is a common language that unites us all in the beauty of the game," said John Doleva, President of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, Inc. "The Hall of Fame wishes to thank all who supported our efforts, led by Senator Elizabeth Warren and the late Senator John McCain and Congressman Richard E. Neal, whose district encompasses the Basketball Hall of Fame and the game's place of invention, and Congressman 'Andy' Barr from Kentucky, where some say 'the game was perfected.' The Hall of Fame will continue to honor the game's greatest moments and people in the game and provide inspiration to participants and fans of all ages in the Birthplace of Basketball, Springfield, Massachusetts." The text of the bill can be read here. ###
01.18.2019	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Today, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement responding to reports that the Trump Administration may lift some tariffs on Chinese imports in an effort to speed the conclusion of trade negotiations with the country: “As controversial as the China tariffs have been, this Administration does currently have the attention of China’s economic policy makers. There is a unique opportunity now for the Administration, led by U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, to secure meaningful and significant changes from China in the way China competes in the global marketplace in technology, innovation, and future-oriented sectors like AI, big data, robotics, aerospace, and IT. “Reports that others in this Administration may be seriously considering settling for a quick and easy deal for some one-off commodities sales to temporarily affect the U.S. trade deficit with China, are deeply disturbing. Anything less than a full effort to secure a fundamental reset of the U.S.-China trade relationship is a betrayal of the American economy and the future of American workers, industry, consumers, and innovators. The Trump Administration needs to stiffen its spine and get tough in these China talks.” ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after Department of Treasury (Treasury) Secretary Steven Mnuchin declined the Chairman’s request to testify before the committee next week: “With more than 70,000 Treasury employees furloughed and missing paychecks, I strongly believe Secretary Mnuchin himself should appear before our committee and answer members’ questions. Nearly a month into the shutdown and with tax filing season rapidly approaching, the Treasury Department has announced plans to call more than 35,000 employees back to work, but has not provided details about this action to our committee. “Ways & Means members have been trying for weeks to get answers from Treasury on the department’s plans for the ongoing shutdown. With reports of federal workers lining up at food banks and struggling to pay bills, we want to hear directly from top leaders in the Trump Administration. New reports indicate that Secretary Mnuchin’s upcoming travel plans have changed, putting him in Washington, DC next Thursday. Out of respect for Treasury and IRS employees, and this committee, I sincerely hope the Secretary reconsiders my request to appear before the committee next week.” ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) sent a letter to Department of Treasury (Treasury) Secretary Steven Mnuchin, inviting him to appear before the committee on Thursday, January 24, at a hearing on the government shutdown’s impact on the Department of Treasury and American taxpayers. Recently, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced that tax filing season will begin on January 28, and stated that the issuing of tax refunds will proceed despite the ongoing government shutdown. Earlier this week, Treasury released an IRS contingency plan that calls for more than 45,000 of the agency’s furloughed employees to return to work without pay for filing season. The upcoming Ways & Means hearing will provide Secretary Mnuchin with an opportunity to brief Congress and the American people on specifically how his agency intends to move forward with filing season during the shutdown; the more than 70,000 furloughed Treasury and IRS employees who have already missed a paycheck; as well as difficulties taxpayers are facing as they seek assistance from the Treasury Department during this interruption in services. Full text of Chairman Neal’s letter to the Secretary is available HERE. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after the UK Parliament voted to reject Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal: “Today, Prime Minister May presented her European Union Withdrawal Agreement to the UK Parliament, which voted the agreement down. I urge all sides to redouble their efforts to find a path forward that can, at the same time, respect the achievements of the European experiment, the will of the people of the United Kingdom, and the legacy of the Good Friday Agreement. I look forward to continuing to engage with my counterparts in both the UK and the EU as they navigate the challenges before them.” Background On June 23, 2016 voters in the United Kingdom decided in a referendum to leave the European Union. The UK officially notified the European Council of its intention to leave on March 29, 2017. The notification triggered Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which sets out the process for leaving and allowed talks on the withdrawal to begin. The UK and the EU agreed to a Withdrawal Agreement and a political declaration on future ties on November 14, 2018. The UK Parliament now must approve the agreement. The UK is scheduled to leave the EU on March 29, 2019 whether or not the UK Parliament has approved the Withdrawal Agreement. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) sent a letter to Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary Alexander Acosta calling for guidance to be issued that would ensure that states can provide federal workers not being paid during the government shutdown with Unemployment Insurance (UI) benefits. Roughly 800,000 federal workers are furloughed without pay due to the shutdown, and President Trump has stated that this impasse could persist for many more months. Unemployment Insurance would help furloughed workers make ends meet and pay for necessities as the shutdown continues. “During the shutdown in 2013, the Department of Labor moved quickly to make sure this lifeline was available to workers, issuing guidance to state workforce agencies about helping workers access UI benefits, 10 days after the shutdown cut off their pay,” wrote Chairman Neal. “Twenty-four days after the shutdown began, your department has not issued similar guidance to help federal workers navigate this crisis. Indeed, many states are working hard to help these workers, but the lack of guidance and leadership from DOL has impeded their progress.” Certain UI eligibility requirements – for example, that recipients be actively searching for new jobs, and that they obtain proof of eligibility directly from agencies – can be waived when workers are furloughed or are expected to return to their jobs without pay. However, Chairman Neal pointed out that without guidance on this matter from DOL, “we are hearing reports that some workers have been unable to access benefits, and without guidance, states may not be able to use the flexibility in federal law.” Mr. Neal also raised his concern that as the shutdown drags on, DOL does not act, and more furloughed workers are called back to the office, “this Administration is simply forcing more and more federal workers to return to their work stations without pay or UI benefits.” Lastly, Chairman Neal pointed out that “the need for unemployment benefits caused by the shutdown will, in the short run, have a negative impact on unemployment trust fund balances, which are already dangerously low in a number of states.” He asked that Secretary Acosta respond and explain “what harm the shutdown is doing to state unemployment insurance trust funds in the short run, whether that impact is triggering tax increases for employers to fund the shortfall, and how you plan to work with states to remedy that harm in the longer term.” Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
01.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement this evening after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 430, the TANF Extension Act of 2019, legislation that extends Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) for two quarters, through June 30, 2019: “For many families with children across the country, TANF plays an important role in making ends meet each month. Without the program, Americans living in poverty would be unable to afford basic necessities like food, rent, diapers, and heat in the winter. TANF also helps parents and other family caregivers find jobs and build a better life for their loved ones. Today, the House passed a bipartisan extension of this meaningful program, and the Senate should swiftly do the same. Extending TANF through June will give congressional negotiators an opportunity to reach a long-term deal to help provide America’s struggling children with brighter, more secure futures.” ###
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Following this afternoon’s classified congressional briefing, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin requesting a delay in the lifting of sanctions on businesses tied to Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska. On December 19, 2018, the Treasury Department announced its intention to terminate the sanctions against Rusal, EN+, and EuroSibEnergo (ESE). “As my colleagues and I indicated in our January 8 letter to you, your notification to Congress was delivered just prior to an adjournment for an extended recess and during which time a government shutdown ensued,” wrote Chairman Neal. “These factors frustrate our ability to complete our review of this matter within the 30-day period provided in CAATSA.” Neal reiterated what he told Secretary Mnuchin in this afternoon’s briefing, that “a delay in the removal of sanctions would allow Congress a meaningful opportunity to exercise oversight over this proposed action as intended by CAATSA, including through reviews of relevant intelligence assessments.” Full text of letter can be viewed HERE. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 264, legislation to fund the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS): “Democrats are committed to fully funding the government, and with this bill, we are one step closer to re-opening Treasury and the IRS and to getting more than 70,000 government employees across the country back to work. President Trump’s unnecessary shutdown has caused undue hardship for families who have gone without income, and for taxpayers who have sought, and been unable to receive, assistance from the Treasury Department during this time. The Senate should not hesitate to follow the House’s lead, pass this legislation, and get it to President Trump for his signature. Immediate action is needed to ensure Americans receive the tax refunds they rely on in a timely fashion, to protect Treasury employees from missing more paychecks, and to avert chaos during filing season and beyond.” ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a resolution affirming the House Counsel’s authorization to intervene in the Texas v. United States lawsuit to defend the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions: “With this vote, House Democrats reaffirmed our commitment to defending Americans’ access to quality, affordable health insurance. Republicans attempted and failed 70 times to dismantle our health care system in Congress, and now they’re using the courts to try to rip protections away from Americans who have pre-existing medical conditions. Democrats will fight this GOP effort so that America doesn’t return to the days of lifetime insurance caps, coverage exclusions, and sky-high costs for inadequate care. We firmly believe that no one should fear they’ll lose access to essential care or face bankruptcy as a result of having a pre-existing condition. “Protecting the health and well-being of our constituents should be the top priority of members of Congress. With our health system under attack, standing by and doing nothing is simply not an option. Make no mistake, any member who voted against this resolution today voted to allow discrimination against the 130 million Americans who have pre-existing conditions.” ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – This afternoon, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) delivered remarks on the House floor in support of a resolution affirming the House Counsel’s authorization to intervene in the Texas v. United States lawsuit to defend the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. “There is no arguing with the following statistic: that today, between 17 and 20 million Americans have health insurance who didn’t have it before the Affordable Care Act,” said Chairman Neal. The Chairman’s full remarks are available HERE. Chairman Neal Defends the Affordable Care Act on House Floor Video of Chairman Neal Defends the Affordable Care Act on House Floor
01.09.2019	(As prepared for delivery) I rise in support of H.R. 264. This bill appropriates desperately needed funds for Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service. As the shutdown persists, the financial and emotional drain on employees and taxpayers continues. There are tens of thousands of furloughed Treasury employees who want to work -- and proudly would do so -- but they cannot. They also cannot pay bills, cannot afford medical care, and, like us, cannot understand any of this. Every day that passes and every minute this shutdown continues is too long and too costly. I spoke to the Treasury Secretary and IRS Commissioner two days ago regarding the impact of the partial shutdown on the IRS and the tax filing season. I was informed that the IRS will release its contingency plan for the tax filing season and issuing refunds in the coming days, which will require a significant number of IRS employees to return to work without pay. These developments are no substitute for fully funding the government and reopening these agencies. Madam Speaker, we do not know the full damage and cost of this shutdown, but we do know we must end it before any more damage is done. If a taxpayer calls the IRS today for assistance, the recording says “Live telephone assistance is not available at this time. Normal operations will resume as soon as possible.” I say that time is now. The time has come for my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand up, vote “yes,” and fully re-open these agencies. Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time. ### Neal Delivers Floor Remarks in Support of Legislation to Fund the Treasury Department and IRS Video of Neal Delivers Floor Remarks in Support of Legislation to Fund the Treasury Department and IRS
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) introduced his first bill of the 116th Congress, the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, legislation to address the nation’s worsening multiemployer pension crisis. Currently, there are about 1,400 multiemployer plans covering about 10 million people across the country. Although multiemployer pension plans have been successful historically, today, a significant number of these plans have funding problems, and many are almost certain to run out of money. If they do, retirees, workers, and their families would lose benefits earned over a lifetime of work, through no fault of their own. Rep. Peter King (R-NY) is an original co-sponsor of the bipartisan legislation, which has an additional four Democrat and four Republican co-sponsors. “We all know retirees with failing multiemployer pension plans who now find themselves in a devastating predicament – from truck drivers to autoworkers to ironworkers, these Americans live in all of our communities,” said Chairman Neal. “In fact, there are 1.5 million Americans who are in plans that are quickly running out of money. These are American workers who planned for their retirement, who year after year chose to contribute to their pensions instead of taking a wage increase. Now, after working for decades, their planned retirements may be taken away from them. And taken away at a time when they’re no longer able to prepare for retirement because they’re now in retirement. There’s no time to waste in addressing this crisis, and that’s why I’ve chosen to make this the first piece of legislation I introduce as Chairman of the Ways & Means Committee.” The bill establishes the Pension Rehabilitation Administration (PRA), a new agency within the Department of the Treasury, authorized to issue bonds in order to finance loans to “critical and declining” status multiemployer pension plans, plans that have suspended benefits, and some recently insolvent plans currently receiving financial assistance from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). The PRA would be headed by a Director, who will have a term of five years and be appointed by the President. “This is not a bailout. These plans would be required by law to pay back the loans they receive from the PRA – the federal government is simply backstopping the risk,” added Chairman Neal. “Importantly, my bill does not allow for any cuts to the benefits these workers and retirees earned through years on the job. Americans need our help, and it’s time to answer that call.” Additional original co-sponsors of the legislation are Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA), Rep. Don Young (R-AK), Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Rep. John Katko (R-NY), Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE). A summary of the bill can be found HERE, and full text of the legislation is available HERE. ###
01.08.2019	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement tonight on President Donald J. Trump’s speech to the nation this evening on border wall funding and the federal government shutdown. “On Day 18 of the partial shutdown of the federal government, President Donald Trump delivered a prime time address from the Oval Office tonight suggesting there is a security crisis on our southwest border. He continues to use this misleading narrative to punish federal workers and force taxpayers to pay for a $5.7 billion wall with Mexico that the vast majority of Americans don’t want. What President Trump failed to mention this evening is that during this 'national crisis' his administration has only spent a fraction of the $1.6 billion allocated for the construction of new physical barriers on the border. And most security experts agree that building a wall that Mexico was supposed to pay for will not solve our immigration problems. In December, the U.S. Congress was ready to approve a bipartisan agreement to fund the government through February, only to have the measure blocked by the President at the last minute. Because of his continued intransigence on the issue of border wall funding, a quarter of the federal government remains closed and more than 800,000 employees will not receive a paycheck at the end of this week. If no agreement is reached by next Tuesday, this unnecessary government shutdown will become the longest in U.S. history. The American people favor secure borders and comprehensive immigration reform. But they do not believe the federal government and its workforce should be held hostage in the process. I urge President Trump to meet with the Congressional leadership immediately to reach a compromise on the budget impasse and reopen the federal government as soon as possible,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means. ##
01.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after speaking on the phone this afternoon with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Charles Rettig: “This afternoon, I spoke with both Secretary Mnuchin and Commissioner Rettig to reiterate the concerns I raised to them last week regarding the impact of the partial government shutdown on taxpayers and the upcoming filing season. I was informed that – more than two weeks after its federal funding lapsed – the IRS will release its contingency plan for the tax return filing season and issuing taxpayer refunds. I look forward to seeing a more detailed description of how the agency will carry out these operations, particularly what will be expected of Treasury and IRS personnel. “These developments are no substitute for funding the government and fully reopening these agencies. On Wednesday, the House will pass the Financial Services and General Government appropriations bill that will fund Treasury and the IRS, and I urge the Senate to move the legislation swiftly to President Trump’s desk for his signature.” ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) sent letters to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Charles Rettig, requesting explanations for how the partial government shutdown, now entering its second week, will affect taxpayers and the upcoming filing season. Nearly 72,000 Treasury employees, including nearly 70,000 civil servants at the IRS, have been furloughed as a result of the funding lapse, and the IRS has indicated it will not issue refunds during the shutdown, nor will it be able to carry out important taxpayer services. While the IRS has not yet announced when filing season will begin, typically it commences in January. “I understand that the IRS furloughed nearly 70,000 IRS employees (87.5 percent of the workforce), ceased needed taxpayer services, and stopped issuing tax refunds during the government shutdown,” wrote Chairman Neal. “These actions are causing undue hardship to American taxpayers and the IRS civil servants.” In his letters, Chairman Neal requested Secretary Mnuchin and Commissioner Rettig provide detailed information regarding how the shutdown will affect the IRS’ ability to accept and process tax returns, provide refunds, and address backlogs in taxpayer correspondence. The Chairman pointed out that delays in refunds could hurt families who each year factor receipt of that money into their budgeting “to pay for basic expenses like rent, food, and child care.” “Given this is the first tax filing season to reflect the overhaul of the tax law, it is particularly important for stakeholders, taxpayers, and the Congress to understand Treasury’s current capabilities and anticipated challenges, including those related to the government shutdown,” added Chairman Neal. Full text of the letter to Secretary Mnuchin is available HERE, and full text of the letter to Commissioner Rettig is available HERE. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Robert Lighthizer announced the delivery of a request to the government of Peru for consultations under the Environment Chapter of the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (Peru Trade Agreement): “I welcome Amb. Lighthizer’s decision today to move forward with requesting formal consultations with Peru under the terms of the Peru Trade Agreement. The Administration has responded swiftly to concerns raised by Ways & Means Democrats with respect to the environmental obligations, particularly the provisions of the Forestry Annex, under the Agreement. It is critical that we continue to demonstrate to our trading partners that trade enforcement is a priority for the United States. We look forward to working closely with USTR on this matter to seek the kind of swift and certain enforcement that House Democrats have insisted U.S. trade agreements provide when trading partners go back on their promises.” Background: On December 14, Peru folded the nation’s independent forest auditor, the Organismo de Supervision de los Recursos Forestales (OSINFOR), into the Ministry of the Environment, directly undermining commitments Peru made in its trade agreement with the United States to address the problem of illegal logging. Since then, Ways & Means Democrats have been working closely with the Administration to secure a reversal of these actions by Peru. In a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Amb. Lighthizer on December 19, Committee Democrats urged USTR to take immediate action to enforce the terms of the Peru Trade Agreement if Peru did not reverse course by the end of that week. In the intervening two weeks, Peru has made no changes to its policies. ###
12.21.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal announced today that the Office of Massachusetts’ First Congressional District has moved to Room 2309 in the Rayburn House Office Building. The wing of the Cannon House Office Building that housed the office’s former location is currently undergoing extensive renovations undertaken by the Architect of the Capitol. Cannon is the oldest Congressional office building outside of the Capitol Building and the 10-year renewal project will address the century-old building’s safety, health, environmental, and operational issues. The mandatory move was completed this week. The phone number for the office, (202) 225-5601, will remain the same and all mail will be forwarded to the new address. ##
12.21.2018	“I am deeply saddened to learn that Audrey Geisel passed away this week at age 97. She was a remarkable woman who took great joy celebrating the literary legacy of her late husband Ted. Thanks to her long and tireless advocacy, a new generation of young children across the globe are enjoying the work of Dr. Seuss. I was fortunate to have spent time with both Ted and Audrey and remain grateful for their friendship. They never forgot the City of Springfield, and the Dr. Seuss Museum and National Memorial Sculpture Garden are in the Quadrangle thanks their generosity and foresight. At this sad time, my thoughts are prayers are with the entire Geisel family,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after becoming Chairman-Designate of the House Committee on Ways & Means: “I am grateful to my colleagues for trusting me with this responsibility. Taking on this new role is a true honor, one that I take extremely seriously and have worked toward throughout my time in Congress. “We must use our majority on the Ways & Means Committee to advance policies that put American families first. I will continue my fight for tax policies that are fair to working families and small businesses. I will work with my colleagues to develop innovative solutions to rebuild our infrastructure needs. And as I have throughout my career, I will oppose efforts to privatize Social Security and slash Medicare and will propose new ways for Americans to save for retirement and access affordable health care. I look forward to helping lead Democrats’ efforts to increase opportunity for the American people and restore the integrity of the federal government.” ###
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and the Democrats of the Ways & Means Committee sent U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Robert Lighthizer a letter expressing serious concern about actions taken by the government of Peru last week, emphasizing the importance of enforcing the environmental and labor commitments of the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (Peru Trade Agreement), and requesting USTR action. On Friday, December 14, the government of Peru folded the nation’s independent forest auditor, the Organismo de Supervision de los Recursos Forestales (OSINFOR), into the Ministry of the Environment, despite the explicit requirement in the Peru Trade Agreement that the agency be established as “an independent and separate agency.” “We consider this to be a flagrant attack on the heart of the Forestry Annex that cannot go unchallenged,” the Ways & Means Democrats wrote in their letter. “Peru must revoke the decree immediately and reverse any action already taken as a result of the decree.” The Peru Trade Agreement incorporates a unique Forestry Annex that aims to address the crisis of deforestation and rampant illegal logging taking place in Peru. In their letter, the members noted that the enhanced environmental provisions reflected in the Peru Trade Agreement helped ensure passage of that agreement through Congress. Noting that this new decree follows years of Peruvian Government actions that undermine the environmental commitments it made in its trade agreement with the United States, the members urged Ambassador Lighthizer to “continue to insist that this brazen, bad faith decision be reversed formally by the end of this week. And if it is not, then we urge the USTR to take immediate action to enforce the existing Peru Trade Agreement through any and all appropriate avenues.” Ways & Means Democrats also reiterated that the strong and enforceable labor and environmental standards – and the provisions of the Forestry Annex in particular – were the primary reason Congress approved the Peru Trade Agreement. The letter is available HERE. Background: On December 13, Peru passed DECRETO SUPREMO Nº 122-2018-PCM which absorbs the Organismo de Supervision de los Recursos Forestales (OSINFOR), Peru’s independent forestry oversight and auditing agency, into the Ministry of the Environment. Peru published the decree on December 14. The Peru Trade Agreement provides in paragraph 3(h)(iii) of Annex 18.3.4 that: “Peru shall establish OSINFOR as required under Forest Law No. 27308. OSINFOR shall be an independent and separate agency . . .” Ways & Means Democrats and USTR have been working together closely since December 13 to ensure and secure compliance by Peru with the provisions of the Peru Trade Agreement Forestry Annex. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA) released the following statement after a U.S. District Court Judge struck down the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “This reckless court decision endangers the lives of millions of Americans who are going to lose their health care. It is an ideological decision in a case that has no legal merit. Last month’s election results showed how important access to health coverage and protections for pre-existing conditions are for American families, and we are calling for an emergency stay of this heartless ruling. We will take immediate action in the new Congress to intervene in this case and appeal this decision. House Democrats will do whatever it takes to make sure the protections enshrined in the Affordable Care Act endure. The lives and wellbeing of millions of Americans – including those living with pre-existing conditions – are on the line.” ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after Congress passed a $867 billion farm bill. "I want to commend the efforts of my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee, which have resulted in this bipartisan bill," said Congressman Neal. "I am particularly pleased that the conference report rejects controversial provisions from the House bill, which would have increased hunger and hardship for millions of Americans, who are struggling to work. The House-passed cuts would have harmed many children, seniors, and working parents in my home state of Massachusetts, where about one in nine residents currently relies on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance program (SNAP) to put food on the table." ##
12.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen today to express their concerns with a rule that would significantly alter the public charge test, which has been part of federal immigration law for decades. The two Democratic Committee leaders also strongly urged Secretary Nielsen to withdraw this proposal immediately. Today is the deadline for comment on the proposed rule, which was published on October 10. Under longstanding policy, the federal government can deny an individual entry into the United States or adjust legal permanent resident status if he or she is determined likely to become a public charge. Current public charge policy limits the benefits considered to be cash assistance, such as Supplemental Security Income, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and comparable state and local programs and government-funded institutional long-term care. Under the proposed rule, immigration officials would also consider non-cash benefits from programs that support work and improve health, including Medicaid and SNAP, in making a public charge determination. Neal and Pallone worry that the new rule would lead to decreased participation for individuals enrolled in vital public assistance programs, discriminate against individuals with disabilities, and fracture families – leaving seniors and their families afraid to go to the doctor or get help paying for food or rent. “If finalized, the rule would directly and indirectly exacerbate and undermine participation in public programs that support work, strengthen families, and provide basic necessities to children that are critical in their development to become strong, productive adults,” Neal and Pallone wrote to Secretary Nielsen. “It would do this through the threat—both real and perceived—that seeking benefits could affect immigration status or entry into the United States. This would increase hunger and food insecurity and could force older adults and their families to forgo needed health care and services.” The Democrats strongly oppose the inclusion of Medicaid in public charge determinations. Congress is responsible for making decisions about the eligibility of immigrants for benefits under federal health programs, and Neal and Pallone believe it is highly inappropriate for DHS to override Congress’ intent and effectively deny immigrants access to Medicaid benefits by including such benefits in a public charge determination. Neal and Pallone also adamantly oppose the inclusion of benefits provided under the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in a public charge determination. The Democrats are also alarmed by the decision to categorize the Medicare Part D Low-Income Subsidy (LIS) Program, which is only available to individuals who worked and earned Medicare benefits, as a sign that an individual is a “public charge.” “We strongly urge the Department to withdraw this ill-conceived proposed rule immediately,” Neal and Pallone concluded in their letter. The letter is available HERE. ###
12.10.2018	Washington (December 10, 2018) – Senators Edward J. Markey and Elizabeth Warren, and Representatives Richard E. Neal and Jim McGovern today announced the release of a $10.8 million Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) grant to upgrade the New England Central Railroad main line through Western Massachusetts. Today, the corridor’s infrastructure cannot accommodate the modern, North American industry standard weight for freight cars, decreasing the amount of cargo that is shipped on this line. Since the mid-2000s, the private sector and state and federal governments have invested more than $80 million to modernize the line in Vermont, New Hampshire, and Connecticut. This $10.8 million BUILD grant will be combined with $9.6 million in state funding through the Massachusetts Department of Transportation and $9.6 million from the New England Central Railroad to modernize the remaining link in Massachusetts, replacing 31 miles of new rail and 20,000 crossties, and strengthening 20 bridges. “With this BUILD grant, we can finally close a crucial gap preventing Massachusetts producers and consumers from enjoying a more efficient, cost-effect freight network,” said Senator Markey, a member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee and Environment and Public Works Committee. “This robust federal investment will create jobs and spur growth and economic activity in the region. From Worcester, to Springfield and beyond, this BUILD grant will make the region more competitive in an increasingly globalized economy.” “This federal funding to upgrade the New England Central Railroad is crucial for Western Massachusetts freight transportation,” said Senator Warren. “I’m committed to ensuring that the federal government is a strong partner for the Commonwealth, and that means supporting key infrastructure projects like these, which will increase the region’s participation in the freight network and spur economic growth.” “As a longtime advocate of both freight and passenger rail, I am pleased that the industry continues to grow throughout New England,” said Rep. Neal. “The expansion of rail has created jobs, increased economic development and helped improve the quality of life in the region. Freight carriers move tons of goods and services over our transportation network each day. And this $10 million federal grant will help upgrade the freight line in western Massachusetts and significantly improve our local transportation infrastructure. It also compliments the investment we have made in the north-south passenger rail from Springfield to New Haven. It’s more good transportation news for the Pioneer Valley.” “Modernizing this line will help link businesses here in Massachusetts and throughout the region to worldwide markets,” said Rep. McGovern. “Our nation’s infrastructure is in desperate need of investments like this BUILD grant, and I am excited by the prospect of enhanced economic development and job growth that this project brings to the Pioneer Valley and beyond.” “Our administration is pleased to leverage state and private-sector funding with a federal BUILD Grant to improve over thirty miles of rail line and support economic growth and development throughout the region,” said Governor Charlie Baker. “This project will improve access to new and existing customers, allow for more goods to be shipped with less energy and help ensure Massachusetts remains economically competitive with domestic and international trade partners.” “We are proud to receive this $10.8 million US Department of Transportation grant which will be combined with state and private resources to enhance this rail line and ensure it can accommodate modern freight carloads,” said Transportation Secretary and CEO Stephanie Pollack. “This investment will allow the entire railroad line to be opened to 286,000 lbs. freight cars, return the track to a state of good repair, and help decrease the amount of freight shipped on our roadways which reduces congestion and greenhouse gas emissions.” “A great effort by federal, state and local officials in working with the New England Central Railroad has resulted in awarding of this grant,” said New England Central Railroad President Len Wagner. “It will help fund much needed improvements to allow the railroad to handle modern, heavier freight cars over its main line in Massachusetts. This will help both current and future freight customers in Massachusetts better compete in their domestic and international marketplaces.” A copy of the letter from the lawmakers to Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao can be found HERE. ###
12.01.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on the passing of former President George H. W. Bush in Houston, Texas at age 94. “George Herbert Walker Bush led a long and distinguished life serving the country he loved with great distinction. He was a soldier, diplomat and statesman who was the product of the “Greatest Generation.” During his tenure as the 41st President of the United States, he presided over some of the most consequential events in recent history including the collapse of the Soviet Union, the fall of the Berlin Wall and Operation Desert Storm. President Bush was a humble man who genuinely tried to make America a more kinder and gentler nation. I had the pleasure of meeting him on a number of occasions and found him to be an individual of uncommon dignity, civility and grace. On this solemn occasion, my thoughts are with the entire Bush family. A grateful nation mourns the passing of this remarkable man at age 94.” #30#
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after President Trump, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto signed the text of the new U.S. Mexico Canada Agreement (USMCA): “The leaders of the United States, Canada, and Mexico gathered in Buenos Aires today to sign the USMCA, marking another milestone in the Administration’s efforts to renegotiate the NAFTA. Yet many key questions remain unanswered. “As the Administration unveils the final, scrubbed legal text of the USMCA for the first time today, I will continue to scrutinize the details of this deal to determine whether it will deliver on creating the American jobs that the this Administration has promised, particularly in the towns and communities across our country that have borne the heaviest losses over the past two and a half decades. The agreement must do more than make some improvements on the margins. It needs to establish economic conditions and incentives that will create the good paying jobs that support middle class families. My assessment will focus on the content of the commitments that have been put on paper and whether those commitments, especially on worker rights and environmental protections, are enforceable and will translate into real world impacts for American workers and communities.” Background: In the 60 days since the President announced that the Administration had concluded the NAFTA renegotiation with both Mexico and Canada, U.S. Customs has collected another two months’ worth of duties on steel and aluminum imports from Canada and Mexico; Canadian and Mexican Customs have collected another two months’ worth of duties on their imports of steel, aluminum, and agricultural products from the United States; and GM announced plans to close five plants in Michigan, Ohio, Maryland, and Ontario, which could result in the elimination of up to 14,000 jobs. As of today, NAFTA trade remains disrupted, and the future of American manufacturing remains as uncertain as ever. ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) sent a letter to top Trump Administration officials demanding answers to a series of questions on the Administration’s latest illegal efforts to undermine the Affordable Care Act (ACA) through improper use of Section 1332 waivers, which will raise costs for older and vulnerable Americans and eliminate protections for people living with pre-existing conditions. This letter comes after the Administration announced new guidance today that will allow states to use waivers to further undermine or ignore the ACA. “We believe this sub-regulatory guidance exceeds the Secretaries’ statutory authority,” Neal and Pallone wrote. “Outside of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process, it interprets the guardrails in Section 1332 to allow states to increase consumers’ costs, reduce coverage, and undermine protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. It is contrary to the plain language of the statute, and it appears to be part of the Administration’s ideologically motivated efforts to sabotage the ACA.” The ACA gave states flexibility in Section 1332 of the law to experiment with health insurance reforms that could improve the well-being of their residents, but with a clear statutory directive to maintain the levels of benefits, affordability and coverage provided to state residents by the ACA. The Trump Administration’s latest guidance disregards the plain text of the law, as well as the congressional intent behind Section 1332 waivers by simply allowing states to show that a comparable number of residents have access to “meaningful” coverage, regardless of whether they actually have coverage. If allowed to go into effect, the Trump Administration’s proposed changes would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to approve waivers that do not provide coverage that is as affordable or as comprehensive as under the ACA. As a result, people with pre-existing conditions, older Americans, and women will once again be susceptible to discrimination by excluding needed benefits, charging them higher premiums, and even denying coverage altogether. Neal and Pallone are requesting answers to a series of detailed questions on the proposed changes by December 31, 2018, including how the Administration came up with their proposed changes to Section 1332 waivers, a comprehensive document request, a list of who was involved in the process, and an explanation on why the Administration decided to promulgate the changes as Section 1332 guidance rather than go through a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking process. Full text of the letter follows: November 29, 2018 Dear Secretary Azar, Administrator Verma, Secretary Mnuchin, and Commissioner Rettig: We write to request further information regarding the Administration’s October 22, 2018 guidance on Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). We are concerned that this guidance is unlawful, will raise costs for older and vulnerable Americans, and will eliminate protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. As such, we are writing to request more information about the basis of the guidance as well as the process for promulgating it. Congress enacted Section 1332 (State Innovation Waivers) of the ACA to provide states with the flexibility to experiment with health insurance reforms that could improve the well-being of their residents, but with a clear statutory directive to maintain the levels of benefits, affordability, and coverage provided to state residents by the ACA. To ensure that any waiver achieves these goals, Congress enacted four strict statutory “guardrails” that waiver applications must meet in order to be approved by the Secretaries of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of the Treasury (Treasury). Under Section 1332, states must demonstrate to the Secretaries of HHS and Treasury that their waivers: 1. “will provide coverage that is at least as comprehensive as the coverage defined in section 1302(b) [essential health benefits] and offered through Exchanges…” 2. “will provide coverage and cost sharing protections against excessive out-of-pocket spending that are at least as affordable as the provisions of this title would provide;” 3. “will provide coverage to a comparable number of its residents as the provisions of this title would provide; and” 4. “will not increase the Federal deficit.” The statutory text is clear that coverage provided under a state waiver must meet all four guardrails simultaneously: comprehensiveness, affordability, number of people covered, and deficit neutrality. This is clear not only from the plain text of the statute, which employs the conjunctive “and” rather than the disjunctive “or,” but also from the legislative history pertaining to the enactment of Section 1332. The author of the Section 1332 provision, Senator Ron Wyden, made clear that states would have to improve upon or at least maintain the levels of coverage and benefits afforded under the ACA in order to qualify for a waiver: Exchanges are a new pathway to creating a competitive marketplace for the first time for health care in this country. Massachusetts led the way, opening the door to showing Federal legislators the potential for insurance exchanges when Massachusetts enacted its own health reform law. Many other States lead the way with innovation in health care, including States like Oregon and Vermont. That is why I have authored and championed in the Senate Finance Committee section 1332, the waiver for State innovation. If States think they can do health reform better than under this bill, and they cover the same number of people with the same comprehensive coverage, they can get a waiver exempting them from the legislation and still get the Federal money that would have been provided under the bill. On October 22, 2018, CMS and Treasury issued guidance for Section 1332 waivers that creates new standards for approving waivers that are wholly inconsistent with Congressional intent. Under the previous administration’s guidance, states needed to show the proposed waiver will provide comprehensive, affordable coverage to a comparable number of their residents as under the ACA, consistent with the plain language of 1332. The new 2018 guidance allows states to simply show that a comparable number of residents have access to “meaningful” coverage, regardless of whether they actually have it or not, thereby allowing the Secretary to approve waivers that do not provide coverage that is as affordable or as comprehensive as under the ACA. It also allows states to reduce coverage in the early years of the waiver, even though there is nothing in the statute that suggests that this type of loose interpretation was intended. The interpretation disregards both the plain text of the statute, as well as the congressional intent behind Section 1332, which was to allow states to innovate to expand coverage, affordability, and comprehensiveness of benefits. Having “access” to coverage is not the same thing as having coverage, and the Administration’s attempt to read “access” into the statute is transparently motivated by an ideological opposition to the benefits and protections afforded by the ACA. The revised 2018 guidance also increases costs for Americans with pre-existing conditions, seniors, and women by expanding the use of “junk” short-term plans, contrary to congressional intent. Under the 2018 guidance, states will be able to count short-term, limited-duration insurance (STLDI) as “health insurance coverage” for the purposes of meeting the requirement that a comparable number of people are covered under the waiver. These junk plans are not required to cover basic, essential health care, such as prescription drugs, maternity care, substance use disorder treatment, and mental health services. These plans may also discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions, older Americans, and women by excluding needed benefits, charging them higher premiums, and even denying coverage altogether. Allowing junk plans such as STLDI to be counted as “coverage” is contrary to Section 1332(a)(2), which does not permit states to waive any of the ACA’s protections for pre-existing conditions. Shockingly, under the new 1332 guidance, states can provide federal taxpayer dollars to subsidize these plans. We believe this sub-regulatory guidance exceeds the Secretaries’ statutory authority. Outside of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process, it interprets the guardrails in Section 1332 to allow states to increase consumers’ costs, reduce coverage, and undermine protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. It is contrary to the plain language of the statute, and it appears to be part of the Administration’s ideologically motivated efforts to sabotage the ACA. In order to assist the Committees in understanding how HHS and Treasury arrived at this guidance, please provide the following information to the Committees by December 13, 2018: 1. Please provide all documents and analyses conducted by the IRS, CMS, HHS, or Treasury relating to any of the following questions: a. Whether it is consistent with Section 1332 of the ACA to read the comprehensiveness and affordability guardrails as satisfied if the waiver application makes coverage that is comprehensive and affordable “available” to a comparable number of residents, even if such residents do not actually have such coverage. b. Whether it is consistent with Section 1332 of the ACA to read the comprehensiveness and affordability guardrails as satisfied if the waiver application makes coverage that is comprehensive and affordable “available” to a comparable number of residents, despite the statutory language requiring that the state waiver “will provide” insurance coverage that is at least as comprehensive and affordable as under the ACA. c. Whether it is appropriate for a sub-regulatory guidance document to adopt a definition of “coverage” from a part of the law outside of the ACA, which includes STLDI, despite Section 1332(a)(2), which does not permit states to waive any of the individual market reforms contained in Subtitle C of the ACA. d. Whether it is appropriate to read the word “access” into the comprehensiveness and affordability guardrails, thereby allowing states to reduce benefits and increase costs for residents in comparison to ACA. e. Whether it is consistent with Section 1332 of the ACA to allow approval of a state plan that does not provide coverage to “at least a comparable number of its residents” by allowing a “temporary reduction in coverage,” so long as it makes it up in aggregate over the waiver term. f. Whether the law permits HHS and Treasury to consider whether a 1332 waiver increases access to private market coverage over public programs in determining whether grant such waiver. g. Whether the law permits HHS and Treasury to approve 1332 waivers that provide for individuals enrolled in STLDI to receive Advanced Premium Tax Credits (APTC). 2. Please provide any documents and communications pertaining to the potential impact of the 1332 guidance, including its impact on individuals with pre-existing conditions, and including any actuarial or fiscal impact analyses from CMS, the Office of Tax Analysis, and the Office of Management and Budget. 3. Please provide a comprehensive list of all agency personnel at Treasury, IRS, HHS, or CMS who were involved in any way in promulgating, reviewing, or finalizing the Section 1332 guidance. 4. Why did the Departments decide to promulgate 1332 guidance rather than go through notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM)? a. Please provide all analyses conducted by the IRS, CMS, HHS, or Treasury relating to the question of the legality or appropriateness of making the proposed changes via guidance rather than an NPRM. 5. Please provide all documents and communications between Treasury, IRS, HHS, and CMS employees, and employees of the Executive Office of the President, including the Office of Management and Budget, referring or relating to the 1332 guidance. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your response in the near future. Sincerely, Frank Pallone, Jr. Ranking Member Committee on Energy and Commerce Richard E. Neal Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that 2.4 million Americans have selected health insurance plans through state and federal marketplaces, a drop from this point in 2017: “While there are still two weeks remaining in Open Enrollment, these lagging numbers show that Republicans’ sabotage of our nation’s health care system is working. The Trump Administration has starved the program intended to help families get covered by refusing to make congressionally-required investments in outreach and enrollment. And the administration’s promotion of inadequate coverage options, like short-term health plans, has led to cost increases for Americans, particularly those with preexisting conditions. “When we invest in enrollment outreach, it pays dividends in reducing the number of uninsured, strengthening the markets, and providing people with affordable coverage that is there when they need it. All Americans should have the opportunity to make fully-informed decisions about their family’s health care and know how to access affordable plans that are available now.” ###
11.21.2018	Springfield, MA – U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after President Donald Trump signaled he would not punish the Saudi Crown Prince over journalist Jamel Khashoggi’s killing. “Despite the CIA’s conclusion that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ordered the killing of journalist Jamel Khashoggi, President Trump continues to side with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia over the professionals in America’s intelligence agencies. I strongly believe Saudi Arabia must be held accountable for orchestrating the murder of an innocent writer for the Washington Post writer who was also a legal resident of the United States. His shocking death is contrary to the values of democratic societies across the globe that champion a free and independent press and should be condemned in the strongest possible terms. I support organizations like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch that are calling for an independent investigation into this brutal killing. We deserve to know the truth about the death of Jamel Khashoggi,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. ##
10.30.2018	Springfield, MA – Congressman Richard E. Neal, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, Patrick J. Sullivan, Executive Director of Parks, Building and Recreation Management and the Springfield Park Commission announced renovations to Van Horn Park, made possible by funding from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, Community Development Block Grants and the City of Springfield. The $300,000.00 grant from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, $150,000.00 from a Community Development Block Grant and $150,000 from the City will allow the City of Springfield to initiate the redevelopment of the playground equipment, site amenities, and exercise stations, which are necessary to meet the growing needs for high quality recreation areas citywide. The project also includes a small pavilion at the middle pedestrian entrance of Van Horn Park. This will be a welcome point for the summer Child Road Races. These improvements follow a master plan for redevelopment of Van Horn Park. Over the past years, other improvements have included improved pedestrian paths around the upper reservoir, a new entrance and parking from Armory Street, site amenities upgrades, and the rebuilding of the lower dam. Mayor Domenic J. Sarno stated, “The City is grateful to the Land and Water Conservation Fund and the Community Development Block Grant for providing the funding for this project and the city is excited to begin renovations to Van Horn Park. The project illustrates the importance of having a master plan ready so when grants do come available we are ready to participate in the application process. The improvements will be a welcome addition to the Liberty Heights and Atwater neighborhoods. I’m especially pleased that Executive Director Patrick Sullivan will initiate the Childs Road Races next summer. This is a great tribute to the Childs family and an important component to get our youth involved in a lifelong sport.” “This federal grant from the National Park Service is helping to fund a very significant recreational project in the City of Springfield. When completed, the renovations to Van Horn Park will help improve a vibrant urban open space that the residents of the Liberty Heights and Atwater neighborhoods will enjoy for years to come. The investment in the public park system is known as ‘green infrastructure’ and it greatly improves the quality of life for the citizens of our community. I congratulate Mayor Sarno and his team for their leadership on this important local project,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “We are very excited for this project to move forward. We have worked with the residents of the Liberty Heights and Atwater neighborhood over the years in developing a master plan for this park. We appreciate the Community Development Block Grant funds administered by Cathy Buono and Congressman Neal’s efforts in restoring funding of the Federal Land and Water Conservation funds. These funds are a lifeline to urban park systems. The grant award is a tribute to everyone’s hard work and input in developing a comprehensive plan for this urban park. We look forward to starting phase three of the plan and will continue to search future grant resources to complete the plans for the Carp Pond and upper dam. This park offers a positive setting for recreation for all ages and is a key component in ensuring the quality of life for the residents of the city” said Executive Director of PBRM Patrick Sullivan. Brian Santaniello, Park Commission Chairman stated, “This is great news for the park patrons of Van Horn Park. The park improvements will ensure for quality playground, picnic and splash pad area. By local, state, federal government and the business community working together, we can make great things happen for our city. I would also like to extend a special thank you to our Mayor who continues to find the funding to improve our Park System.” For further information, Executive Director of Parks, Recreation and Building Management Patrick Sullivan can be reached at psullivan@springfieldcityhall.com. ###
10.27.2018	Springfield, MA - U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement following the Saturday morning shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania which claimed the life of eleven individuals. “My heart goes out to the families and loved ones of the innocent victims who lost their lives during Saturday morning services at a Synagogue in Pittsburgh This senseless act of violence and hate has no place in our society and is contrary to our basic values as Americans. Such an attack on the Jewish community must be condemned in the strongest possible terms.” ##
10.26.2018	(Washington, DC)—U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), the lead Democrat of the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Edward Markey (D-MA), and Maggie Hassan (D-NH), along with Representatives Katherine Clark (D-MA), Richard Neal (D-MA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Mike Capuano (D-MA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Bill Keating (D-MA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Joe Kennedy III (D-MA) and Annie Kuster (D-NH), the founder and co-chair of the Bipartisan Heroin and Opioid Task Force, applauded an award of $2.95 million to the Massachusetts Attorney General’s office in support of partnerships between Massachusetts and New Hampshire law enforcement to investigate and interdict narcotics, including heroin and fentanyl. “Drug trafficking knows no borders which is why partnerships across state lines are so important to keeping drugs off our streets,” said the New Hampshire and Massachusetts delegations in a joint statement. “We believe that these partnerships between law enforcement will undoubtedly save lives. This award is a vote of confidence in our law enforcement who do such a tremendous job protecting our communities and need all the help they can get as they fight on the frontlines of the opioid crisis. We will continue to do all that we can to secure resources and provide tools to those who are fighting to end this epidemic.” In July, the New Hampshire and Massachusetts delegations wrote to the Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services at the Department of Justice in support of the grant proposal submitted by the New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon MacDonald and Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey. ###
10.25.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump announced a plan to lower prescription drug costs for Medicare beneficiaries: “The plan President Trump unveiled today likely won’t result in lower prescription prices for seniors, and it may even increase drug costs for some Medicare beneficiaries. Across the board, Republicans have failed to lower health care costs for Americans. The GOP’s lack of effective strategy to bring down prescription prices goes hand in hand with the party’s relentless efforts to eliminate pre-existing condition protections and slash funding for Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security.” ###
10.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the three House Democratic leaders of the committees with jurisdiction over health care, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), released the following joint statement after the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of the Treasury issued new guidance. This guidance continues Republicans’ unrelenting push to sabotage health coverage, making it easier for states to undermine the Affordable Care Act (ACA), give Americans fewer benefits at higher costs, and again jeopardize coverage for Americans with pre-existing conditions: “Yet again, the Trump Administration is finding a way to unravel protections for people with pre-existing conditions, pushing Americans into insurance that provides less coverage at a higher cost. Allowing states to permit residents to buy these plans further destabilizes the health care market and drives up prices for people with pre-existing conditions. Loosening coverage requirements undermines protections that have helped millions of people gain access to affordable care. As Republicans keep trying to chip away at the ACA, they are putting the most vulnerable Americans at risk of buying an inadequate plan or being priced out of coverage altogether. Democrats will continue to fight against GOP health care sabotage.” ###
10.18.2018	LONGMEADOW – The Massachusetts Department of Transportation has announced it has committed approximately $700,000 to help Amtrak make safety improvements at the public railroad crossing at Birnie Road in Longmeadow. This funding is expected to cover approximately 90% of the cost of the improvements. Amtrak, which owns the railroad line and is carrying out the project, will fund the remaining costs. “This funding will install new safety infrastructure and measures at this crossing to notify motorists and members of the public when trains are traveling through the area,” said Transportation Secretary and CEO Stephanie Pollack. “We are pleased to collaborate with our partners at Amtrak and look forward to these improvements being implemented.” “Safety is Amtrak’s top priority, and the joint investment of MassDOT and Amtrak at Birnie Road in Longmeadow shows that both parties are equally committed and dedicated to safety,” said Tom Moritz, Amtrak Assistant Vice President of Infrastructure Access and Investment. “Customers will continue to benefit from our partnership with MassDOT, especially when it comes to enhancing safety.” Work being carried out by Amtrak will include the installation of a new gate and warning lights and a power system to support this infrastructure. Work related activities are currently expected to begin in 2019. “The improvements that are being funded in part by MassDOT will help prevent vehicles from traveling over the railroad crossing as trains are approaching this location,” said MassDOT Rail and Transit Administrator Astrid Glynn. “We thank all the stakeholders and federal, state and local elected officials who have supported these infrastructure upgrades and ensured that this project is able to move forward.” “Safety is at the core of Amtrak’s’ mission, which makes it imperative that we ensure they have the tools and resources needed to enhance safety measures at rail crossings,” said Senator Edward J. Markey, a member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over Amtrak and rail safety. “Five deaths at the Tina Lane and Birnie Road rail crossing is five too many. I’m proud to have helped secure this critical federal funding and hasten the projects approval to ensure we make lifesaving improvements to this crossing as soon as possible.” “Thank you to MassDOT and Amtrak for their collaboration on this project,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “The improvements at the Birnie Road crossing will not only ensure the safety of passengers on trains travelling through this area, but also those community members who frequently walk or drive near this site. As the number of trains continue to increase on this line, these improvements are of great importance now more than ever. Thank you also to the advocacy of the residents for ensuring that this comes to fruition.” “This is tremendous news for a community that has long requested safety improvements at this hazardous railroad crossing, after five deaths since 1975, most recently DPW worker Warren Cowles. Thank you to MassDOT and Amtrak for working together on behalf of our community, and to Senator Markey, who has championed this issue in Washington. It is imperative that the crossing at Birnie Road is made safe again so that no family will have to suffer a tragic loss like those the Cowles family and others have had to bear," said State Senator Eric P. Lesser. "This funding is great news as we look to make the necessary changes to ensure the railroad crossing at Birnie Road in Longmeadow is safe for our current and future residents. While I'm certainly happy to have played a role in getting this project to move forward, I don't want us to forget our friend, Warren Cowles, whose tragic death was a catalyst for these improvements,” said State Representative Brian Ashe. “A sincere thank you to MassDOT for acknowledging the importance of this funding and to the neighborhood advocates for their tireless efforts." MassDOT has worked closely with federal, state and local leaders and members of the public in recent months after receiving feedback regarding the need for improvements and safety upgrades at the Birnie Road grade crossing in Longmeadow. As always, MassDOT considers public input when planning infrastructure investments in order to ensure that work is conducted in ways that are consistent with the desires of local communities and key stakeholders. ####
10.16.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after the United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer notified Congress that the Trump Administration intends to initiate new trade negotiations with the European Union, the United Kingdom, and Japan, respectively: “With many sectors of the U.S. economy seized with anxiety over the impact of the President’s trade policies, perhaps these notices indicate that the Trump Administration will finally try to create new economic opportunities for U.S. workers and businesses through constructive engagement with important U.S. trading partners and allies. I look forward to working closely with Amb. Lighthizer in defining the scope of these trade agreement negotiations and ensuring that these potential agreements incorporate strong provisions on worker rights, environmental protection, and enforcement. “I urge Amb. Lighthizer to aim for results that are at least as ambitious and strategic as recent efforts that have been made with these partners. U.S. workers, families, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, service providers, and innovators deserve policies, including trade agreements and trade policies, that will enhance their competitiveness in the global economy.” ###
10.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on the disappearance of the Saudi Arabian and Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul, Turkey this week. “The disappearance of the Washington Post journalist Jamal Kashoggi in Istanbul this week should be of great concern to everyone who believes in the freedom of the press and the First Amendment of the Constitution. Silencing and demonizing reporters is contrary to our fundamental core values as Americans. I urge President Trump to work closely with the Turkish government to conduct a full investigation into his reported killing. Saudi Arabia needs to be transparent and immediately answer the global community’s questions about Khashoggi’s disappearance,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. ##
10.09.2018	Springfield, MA – On Tuesday, U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal gathered with Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and Pioneer Valley Transit Authority (PVTA) Administrator Sandra Sheehan to announce $2.4 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation. These funds, from the Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program, are made available for entities looking to replace, rehabilitate and purchase buses and related equipment or to construct bus-related facilities. The PVTA will be using these monies to rehabilitate and convert its 110-year-old fixed-route bus maintenance garage to a facility for paratransit operations and maintenance hub. “This is great news for the PVTA as they continue to grow and adapt to the needs of their ridership,” said Congressman Neal. “Congratulations to Sandra Sheehan and her team at PVTA for the success of their application to the U.S. Department of Transportation for these monies. It is an incredibly competitive program and I am thrilled with the accomplishment. So many people will benefit from this award as it will continue to ensure safe, reliable transportation.” “I’m very appreciative of Congressman Neal’s continued efforts and those of Senators Markey and Warren for this substantial funding for our PVTA operations,” said Mayor Sarno. “Intermodal transportation is extremely important for our growing and thriving City of Springfield. I’d also like to commend PVTA Administrator Sandra Sheehan for her visionary leadership efforts. This will be a nice complement to ‘the house that Neal built,’ our historic and magnificent Union Station.” “Keeping transportation infrastructure up to date is crucial to the economic health and well-being of Springfield and the Pioneer Valley. I am glad the Federal Transit Administration has decided to make this investment in our communities, businesses, and families,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren. “I applaud the Federal Transit Administration’s investment in the PVTA’s future,” said Senator Ed Markey. “Access to reliable transportation is critical to a city’s economic development and to its tourism industry. It is critical to our residents who rely on it get to work, bring their children to school, and conduct their daily lives. Investing today in Springfield and the Pioneer Valley will reap rewards for generations to come.” “PVTA is thankful for this grant award for the rehabilitation of our 110-year old facility that will consolidate paratransit operations and maintenance to one location which will improve efficiency as well as the longevity of PVTA’s van fleet by allowing for the vehicles to now be stored indoors and sheltered from the harsh weather elements,” said Administrator Sheehan. “Protecting and maintaining PVTA’s assets is a vital component to providing services that are safe, convenient and reliable to our passengers.” ##
10.03.2018	SPRINGFIELD - Today, Governor Charlie Baker joined Springfield Mayor Dominic Sarno, Secretary of Housing & Economic Development Jay Ash and local legislators to announce $2.5 million economic development funding to the New England Farm Workers Council for the restoration of the Paramount Theater in downtown Springfield. In 2011, the New England Farm Workers Council (NEFWC) purchased the decaying Paramount Theater and Massasoit building. NEFWC will soon begin a $41 million renovation on the property, which includes the full restoration of the Paramount Theater as a 1,750 seat performing arts venue. The Massasoit Building will be redeveloped into an 85 room hotel. “The redevelopment of the Paramount Theater block is the lynchpin of Springfield’s downtown revitalization,” said Governor Charlie Baker. “We are grateful to Mayor Sarno, Congressman Neal, the state legislative delegation and the New England Farm Workers Council for their leadership in this project, which will create jobs and spur the economy in Western Massachusetts.” “We are pleased to support the restoration of the Paramount Theater into a first class performance space serving Springfield and its surrounding region,” said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. “This project builds on the significant investments this administration has made in Springfield’s infrastructure, affordable housing and business expansions to continue the thriving economic development happening in the past year.” “I am pleased to return to Springfield to celebrate the support for the long-awaited rebirth of the Paramount Theater,” said Secretary of Housing and Economic Development Jay Ash. “We understand what this particular project means to the revitalization of Springfield’s downtown, and we are proud to support the shared vision of Mayor Sarno, Herbie Flores and others.” The Paramount Theater block has been a cornerstone of Springfield since the opening of the Massasoit House Hotel in 1857. Since then, it has hosted Presidents Franklin Pierce, Ulysses S. Grant, Andrew Johnson and Jefferson Davis. In 1926, the hotel underwent extensive renovations, including the addition of the Paramount Theater, one of the most ornate theaters in Western Massachusetts. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. The Paramount Theater operated for decades, evolving from a live performance venue to a cinema. Eventually the space was redeveloped into the Hippodrome, a nightclub that operated from 1999 to 2011. Following NEFWC’s 2011 purchase, the theater space sat vacant. The renovated theater and hotel will employ more than 270 Springfield area residents. “The history of the Paramount Theater is intertwined with the history of the City of Springfield going back to the 1800s,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “I am thrilled to see this transformation happen as we continue to work on the revitalization of downtown Springfield, making sure every block from the North End’s Union Station to the South End’s MGM Casino is thriving. Thanks to the Baker Administration for their continued support of this great project, as well as the state legislature. Additionally, it couldn’t be done without the steadfast commitment to the rehabilitation of this treasured building by the New England Farm Worker’s Council.” “I can’t say enough about Governor Baker and Secretary Ash. They’ve been great partners to me and our City in continuing to build on even more economic development projects that create more jobs,” said Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno. “The Paramount Theatre is a historical landmark here in Springfield,” said Senator James T. Welch. “With the our city’s revitalization efforts in full affect, it is nice to see the Paramount in the spotlight as a cultural hub in our area. This funding not only represents crucial investment into a large scale project, it also represents the state’s commitment to supporting the arts and acting as a catalyst for a cultural resurgence.” “This is exciting news for the City of Springfield, whose downtown is in the middle of a historic revival. The Paramount Theater was for decades a cultural institution and a mainstay for the latest performances of the era, from vaudeville to movies to local bands and stage productions. I’m thrilled to see this restoration project move forward with state help, including funds secured by the Legislature. The Paramount will add to the growing list of attractions that have always put Springfield on the map,” said Senator Eric P. Lesser, who serves as Senate Chair of the Committee on Economic Development and Emerging Technologies. "Thank you to the Governor for believing in Springfield and its economic resurgence. These funds will help revive the Paramount Theater, a historic landmark,” said Representative Carlos Gonzalez. “Springfield’s strength is in its diversity, and investing in a performing arts theater will have a positive impact in the heart of Western Massachusetts. I also want to recognize the role and the collaboration efforts of the Western MA delegation, Mayor and specially the Developer Heriberto Flores who has never wavered on Springfield’s comeback." “Springfield’s historic Paramount Theater and Massasoit property block are vital pieces of the redevelopment in Western Massachusetts,” said Representative Bud Williams. “Thank you to the Baker-Polito Administration for supporting this important project.” “I am proud to join with Governor Charlie Baker, Secretary Jay Ash, and Mayor Domenic Sarno to announce the state’s funding of Springfield’s Paramount Theatre,” said Representative Michael J. Finn. “This funding demonstrates the state’s commitment to assist in Springfield’s redevelopment efforts, including increased tax revenues and job creation.” The project will break ground in June 2019 with an anticipated completion date of September 2020. ###
09.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced that the United States and Canada reached an agreement on terms, together with terms agreed to earlier with Mexico, to update the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “Last month, I noted that a lot of important work remains to be done in the NAFTA renegotiation. That is still true today. “I welcome the announcement by the Administration that the deal now includes Canada. But our collective examination of the deal will be beginning only now, with the Administration’s publication of new NAFTA text. “There are important questions that Members of Congress, stakeholders, and the American people need answered. Most importantly, we will need to assess whether this agreement makes real improvements to the terms of the existing NAFTA or President Obama’s TPP, especially when it comes to the enforcement and enforceability of the agreement’s provisions, including the provisions that have always been critical to Democratic support – the ones that provide for worker rights and environmental protections. “The bar for supporting a new NAFTA will be high. NAFTA has had many critics over the years and its flaws are well-known. Like me, many of my colleagues did not support the deal originally. And those who did will have serious questions that they need answered before doing so again.” ###
09.28.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal hosted his annual “Washington Symposium” this week for regional Chambers of Commerce where nearly 40 participants from western and central Massachusetts had an opportunity to meet with a bipartisan group of lawmakers and journalists about currents events in Washington, D.C. The group from the local community represented a wide range of interests including health care, insurance, telecommunication, education and real estate. The trip was presented by the Springfield Regional Chamber in partnership with 1Berkshire, Franklin County Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Central Mass and the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce. During their visit to Capitol Hill, the group heard from a bipartisan group of speakers including Senator Elizabeth Warren, Senator Edward Markey, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, Representative John Lewis, Representative Katherine Clark, Representative Luis Gutierrez, Representative Joe Kennedy, New York Times Chief Washington Correspondent Carl Hulse and PBS Commentator Mark Shields. Their visit ended with a breakfast in the Library of Congress with the Irish Ambassador to the United States Daniel Mulhall. “It’s always a great pleasure to welcome our local business leaders to Capitol Hill and give them an opportunity to meet with a bipartisan group of decision makers in Washington. The annual visit gives them a unique perspective on the legislative process and a chance to see firsthand how Congress really works. I thought the group this year got a chance to talk and ask questions with some of the leading figures in American politics today. I want to thank the members of our regional Chambers of Commerce for their participation, and I look forward to hosting them again in the future for another productive visit,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “On behalf of the local Chambers of Commerce, I want to thank Congressman Neal for putting together another extraordinary Washington Symposium for our regional business stakeholders. We feel these annual visits to Capitol Hill are informative, enjoyable and enormously helpful. It is also impressive to see how so many of Congressman Neal’s colleagues on both sides of the aisle hold him in such high regard. I would strongly encourage community leaders from across western and central Massachusetts to attend one of these impressive programs in our nation’s capital,” said Nancy Creed, President, Springfield Regional Chamber of Commerce.
09.28.2018	Boston (September 28, 2018) – Senators Edward J. Markey and Elizabeth Warren, and Congressman Richard E. Neal (MA-01) today introduced new federal legislation that will force the cable company Charter to engage in good faith negotiations with WWLP and WCVB to bring those stations back on the air in Berkshire County. Specifically, the bill authorizes a cable operator (Charter) to transmit any station that was retransmitted to viewers on December 1, 2016, including WWLP and WCVB, to subscribers in the Albany Designated Market Area (DMA), which includes Berkshire County, and forces Charter and the stations to negotiate carriage. The bill also preserves Berkshire County residents’ access to Albany, New York stations that provide relevant weather updates and important emergency information. “Local broadcast television allows viewers in the Berkshires to follow their favorite sports teams, stay informed about local government, and keep connected to communities across the Commonwealth,” said Senator Markey. “It’s unacceptable that they have lost access to vital local information. We cannot allow Charter to take local stations off the air, continue to shrug its shoulders, and maintain the status quo. This legislation rights this wrong and will help get Massachusetts stations back on the air.” “Berkshire County residents deserve programming that is relevant to their community and allows them to stay up-to-date on political affairs, follow their favorite sports teams, and keep up-to-date on important weather and emergency alerts,” said Senator Warren. “I’m glad to work with my Massachusetts colleagues on a bill to help to reintroduce local programming to the Berkshires.” “I strongly believe that Berkshire County cable subscribers should be able to access local television programming and that is why I am introducing legislation in the U.S. House today to fix this matter,” said Congressman Neal. “The people of western Massachusetts want to view regional news, get emergency alerts, be advised of severe weather, and watch religious broadcasting. And since its football season, they also want to be able to tune in to the New England Patriots. I believe this problem known as ‘regional disenfranchisement’ can be resolved, and I intend to work with my colleagues and communications stakeholders to get it done.” A copy of the legislation can be found HERE. In May, the Massachusetts lawmakers sent letters to Charter Communications and Hearst Television expressing concerns about the ongoing business dispute between the two parties. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Judiciary Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) issued the following statement in support of H.R. 6, the bipartisan opioid legislation released last night: “We support this bipartisan package as a first step in fighting the opioid epidemic. This final deal includes key priorities that our members pushed throughout the process, including expanding access to treatment, expanding coverage through Medicaid, combating illicit drug importation, and ensuring Medicare beneficiaries with opioid abuse or misuse disorders can receive treatment in the community setting. This bill will make a difference, but if we want to seriously combat this crisis, we need to make significant federal investments, and that is unfortunately something that has been missing from this package from the very beginning.” A section-by-section of H.R. 6 is available HERE. ###
09.24.2018	SPRINGFIELD, Mass. – The National Science Foundation awarded two separate grants to Springfield Technical Community College to enhance education in cutting-edge internet technology and advanced photonics, U.S. Rep. Richard E. Neal, D-Springfield, announced today. The college received $599,388 to develop “The Internet of Things Education Project” and $551,202 to develop “Problem-Based Learning in Advanced Photonics Manufacturing Education.” Both grants are designed to support three-year projects that will prepare and inspire students to enter careers in growing science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields. STCC has degree and certificate programs that prepare students for these careers. “Congratulations to Springfield Technical Community College for these two impressive grants from the National Science Foundation,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “I have worked hard throughout my career to protect these funding sources because I see how they are used right here in our community. STCC will be able to use this allocation to enhance their already impressive course offerings in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) fields and attract high school students to these fields. I look forward to future success stories from these programs.” The Internet of Things Education Project Gary J. Mullett, co-chair of the Electronic Systems Engineering Technology Department, said the “internet of things” (IoT) can be described as machines connecting to other machines and exchanging data. Machines with this type of technology include automobiles, heating and cooling systems in buildings and home appliances. “It’s become pervasive,” said Mullett, principal investigator of the grant. “The internet has evolved from delivering entertainment and information to people to machines that are talking to other machines. It’s possible that 20 or 30 billion things will be connected to the internet before too long.” Technology behind the internet of things has had an impact on the evolution of autonomous vehicles, advanced manufacturing and healthcare, Mullett said. “The technology of the IoT has the very genuine potential to significantly impact almost every aspect of human endeavor and commerce,” Mullett wrote in a description of the project to the National Science Foundation. “It is vitally important that the United States be at the forefront of the development of this technology and the creation of a workforce that can deal with the installation, maintenance and updating of this emerging technology. This project will strive to provide curricula and training to those that would teach the material to ensure an adequate workforce of IoT technicians.” Mullett said the final goal of the project is to create an Internet of Things Systems Field Technician certificate that would prepare students to enter the workforce. The certificate would be offered as part of one of the existing electronics, computer or networking programs at STCC. Problem-Based Learning in Advanced Photonics Manufacturing Education The second project – supported by a grant for $551,202 – aims to increase the STEM pipeline of high school and community college students prepared and motivated to pursue careers in photonics technology. Students will use problem-based learning methods focused on advanced photonics manufacturing. Photonics is the science of generating, detecting and manipulating particles of light. Applications include lasers, optics, fiber-optics and electro-optical devices. The grant supports curriculum development and the training of high school and college-level STEM teachers in the Northeast. “We will do a series of professional development workshops to teach the faculty how to teach using problem-based methods,” said Professor Nicholas M. Massa, department chair for Optics and Photonics Technology and principal investigator of the grant. “It’s all about structured problem solving. It’s about teaching what to do when you don’t know what to do.” Massa and his team will create a series of eight multimedia problem-based learning modules focused on real-world issues in advanced photonics manufacturing. STCC has partnered with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology AIM Photonics Academy, the New England Board of Higher Education and the NSF-ATE Regional Center for Next Generation Manufacturing. Massa said companies will be asked to describe actual problems they have faced. Massa said the companies’ processes will be captured on video that will be presented to students along with problem-solving strategies and resources used to solve the problems. “This brings the company into the classroom,” Massa said. “We will use video, stills and animation to present students with these problems. We’re teaching them how to ask the right questions.” STCC President John B. Cook thanked Mullett and Massa for their efforts in securing the grants. “Dr. Massa and Professor Mullett are passionate about their work inside and outside of the classroom. They both have a long history of successfully securing important grants for their programs at STCC,” Cook said. “I’m grateful that they both have a keen understanding of the needs of our industry partners and a commitment to ensuring our students are prepared for the jobs of tomorrow.” Interested in applying for a STEM program at STCC? Visit stcc.edu/apply or call 413-755-3333 to speak with an admissions counselor. About Springfield Technical Community College Founded in 1967 and located on 35 acres of the Springfield Armory National Historic Site, STCC is a major resource for the economic vitality of Western Massachusetts. As the only technical community college in Massachusetts, STCC, a designated Hispanic Serving Institution and an Achieving the Dream Leader College, offers a variety of career programs unequalled in the state. STCC’s highly regarded transfer programs in business, engineering, liberal arts, science and technology continue to provide the most economical options for students pursuing a four-year degree. With an annual enrollment of more than 7,700 day, evening, weekend and online students, STCC is a vibrant campus rich in diversity. For more information about STCC, visit www.stcc.edu. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter (@S_T_C_C). ###
09.20.2018	Springfield, MA - U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement on the one year anniversary of Hurricane Maria making landfall in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. "It has been one year since Hurricane Maria ravaged destruction through Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. I have not forgotten about the victims and the recovery efforts that are still needed. I have visited the island of Puerto Rico, I have heard concerns from individuals who are now in western and central Massachusetts awaiting the ability to return home, and I have continuously called on the Trump Administration to get these Americans the help they so desperately need. Whether it be wildfires in California, flooding in Texas, or a tornado in Massachusetts - the American principle says that we all come together to the aid of our fellow Americans. Let us not forget that." ##
09.13.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Thank you, Chairman Brady. Unfortunately, today our country is in the midst of a retirement crisis. Nearly half of American private sector employees – roughly 55 million – work for an employer that does not offer a retirement plan. Most of these workers are employed by small businesses, the fastest growing segment of the economy. Too many workers in this nation reach retirement age without the savings they need. The retirement crisis in America is real and will only worsen unless we make saving easier and do more to encourage workers to begin saving for retirement earlier. As such, I certainly applaud you, Mr. Chairman, for your interest in this area. H.R. 6757 includes a number of provisions that will help Americans save for retirement. However, I plan to oppose this bill today because it’s only a drop in the ocean and is missing key bipartisan provisions that will greatly improve our retirement system. For example, I have introduced legislation that generally would require all but the smallest employers to maintain a 401(k) plan for their employees. This bill would provide an opportunity to save at work for millions of American workers. We should consider ideas like this one to address our coverage gap. I’d also be remiss if I didn’t mention that we also need to address the multiemployer pension crisis. But I’m also very disappointed that a number of key provisions from the RESA legislation – which by the way is supported by both business and AARP – are missing from today’s bill. I have three bipartisan proposals from RESA that are not included in H.R. 6757. The first, which I worked on with Mr. Bishop, would create a tax credit to encourage small employers to implement automatic enrollment in their retirement plans. Automatic enrollment has had a huge impact on increasing savings. The bill also does not include two other of my bipartisan proposals – a proposal to expand retirement savings by removing the automatic enrollment safe harbor cap and an expansion of the small employer pension plan start-up credit. Today’s bill also is missing some key lifetime income proposals that would help Americans manage their assets in retirement. And it doesn’t include an important retirement provision that’s critical to the Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts and a number of religious organizations. These bipartisan proposals would do a lot to improve our retirement system and it’s a missed opportunity that they are not included in H.R. 6757 today. To address the retirement crisis, it is critical that we work together on a bipartisan basis to develop solutions to help Americans prepare for a financially secure retirement. This means Democrats and Republicans rolling up their sleeves and developing ideas together. It also means the retirement industry coming together with participant and retiree groups. Pensions have had a long history of being a bipartisan issue. Now more than ever it’s time to put politics aside and really work together to address the retirement crisis. Thank you. ###
09.13.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Thank you, Chairman Brady. It’s been eight months since the Republicans passed their massive, unpaid-for tax cut bill without a single Democratic vote. At the time, Democrats and independent experts warned that a so-called tax reform plan that wasn’t paid for and that was so heavily skewed to the wealthy and big corporations would harm our economy and damage important programs like Medicare and Social Security. We’re eight months on now and we’re beginning to see what many of us feared is coming true. Insurance companies in state after state are announcing higher premiums for next year, while health coverage for those living with pre-existing conditions is on the chopping block. To make matters worse, the Medicare Trustees cut three years off the life of the Medicare Trust Fund because of the Republican tax bill. After showering corporations with trillions of dollars in tax cuts, corporations across the country are pocketing their money, laying off workers and shipping operations to other countries. In one particularly egregious case, an executive at a well-known company stated that the savings the company received from the Republican tax law allowed them to restructure and lay off hundreds of workers. Despite all of this, Republicans are doubling down and moving forward with another round of tax cuts for the well-off and well-connected. In fact, the Republicans are cutting taxes for the rich for the second time in less than a year. By making permanent the cut to the Clinton/Obama/Boehner/McConnell top rate, Republicans are providing a huge tax cut for just a fraction of the top five percent of taxpayers. The GOP also has disguised a massive giveaway to millionaires by calling it a new benefit for small businesses. In fact, more than half of the benefit of the Republicans’ so-called small business tax benefit, which they make permanent, goes to millionaires. At the same time, the Republicans have doubled down on their attack on the middle class by making permanent the limits to the State and Local Tax deduction, the mortgage interest deduction, and casualty loss deductions. And by eliminating personal exemptions alone, 290 million individuals will no longer be able to claim $1.14 trillion in tax savings. Tax scam 2.0 repeals these and many other tax incentives that help middle-class families get ahead, while lavishing benefits on the wealthy and well-connected corporations. Furthermore, with today’s bill, the so-called party of fiscal conservatism will be passing over $3 trillion in tax breaks in less than a year. Let me give you a little bit of a history lesson. In January 2001, when President Bush took over from President Clinton, CBO estimated the total budget surplus for 2002 to 2011 would be $5.6 trillion. But what actually happened during that period? The federal government ran deficits that totaled $6.1 trillion. What happened when President Clinton left office? In 2001, Republicans cut taxes by $1.3 trillion; in 2003, by $1 trillion; and in 2005, there was the repatriation tax holiday. The Republicans call themselves fiscal conservatives but nothing could be further from the truth. History doesn’t lie and now we’re seeing it again with the addition of more than $3 trillion to the nation’s debt. This package, like the one before it, is being rushed through with no hearings and no input from stakeholders. A rushed and lopsided process resulted in the disastrous tax law. In fact, my staff has identified over 100 problems with the Republicans’ tax law. Yet the Republicans are doubling down on their flawed policies with this exercise, with bills guaranteed to be dead-on-arrival in the Senate. The Republicans’ tax 2.0 legislation is another reckless tax cut for the wealthy that leaves behind average, hardworking families. Therefore, I will be opposing HR 6760 and encourage my colleagues to do the same. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ###
09.10.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after Republicans released the text of their new tax legislation: “Republicans’ first tax law raised taxes on middle-class families, hiked health care costs for millions, and showered the most well-off and well-connected with massive tax cuts. With this second attempt at major tax legislation, congressional Republicans have doubled down on their initial tax scam and are yet again putting the wealthiest, most privileged Americans ahead of average, hardworking families. “The first Republican tax law hasn’t helped workers get ahead – wages aren’t keeping up with inflation, costs for health insurance and prescription drugs are rising, and companies are laying people off and shipping jobs overseas. This new tax legislation is more of the same – it disproportionately benefits the wealthiest Americans while growing the nation’s debt even more. “After their first bill prioritized windfalls for corporations over benefits for average Americans, the GOP now thinks it can use this new legislation to make things right. Given their secretive, rushed process, it’s no surprise that Republicans’ resulting policy is terrible and won’t successfully clean up the mess last year’s tax law has left in its wake. When all is said and done, this tax legislation won’t help workers or families, but it will further enrich GOP donors and provide Republicans with more ammunition to attack programs like Medicare and Social Security.” ###
09.07.2018	Washington, DC - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Representatives Richard E. Neal, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, William Keating, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Katherine Clark and Seth Moulton, announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded twenty-seven fire departments in Massachusetts nearly $4.5 million in federal grants. The Fire Protection Research Foundation in Quincy was awarded $1.5 million through the Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) program, while twenty-four fire departments received funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. Additionally, two fire departments were awarded funding through the Staffing for Adequate & Fire Emergency Response (SAFER) program. The Fire Protection Research Foundation in Quincy, MA received the following FP&S grant: $1,488,271 to study the cleaning / decontamination of structural firefighting protective clothing. The AFG grants were awarded to fire departments in the following cities and towns: Ayer, MA - $23,170 for driver/operator training. Brewster, MA - $190,023 for ambulance stretcher loading systems. Brookline, MA - $45,455 for an air compressor / air refill station. Cheshire, MA - $34, 329 for vehicle extrication equipment. Dudley, MA. - $215,768 for firefighter breathing apparatus. East Bridgewater, MA - $185,875 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Gloucester, MA - $145,454 for ambulance stretcher loading systems. Goshen, MA - $90,667 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Halifax, MA - $136,000 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Hamilton, MA - $13,810 for a protective gear washer and dryer. Hancock, MA - $80,000 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Hanover, MA - $89,593 for mobile radios. Harwich, MA - $70,866 for nozzles and appliances. Kingston, MA - $76,907 for portable radios. Milton, MA - $116,000 for structural firefighting protective gear. Norfolk, MA - $171,429 for firefighter breathing apparatus. North Adams, MA - $14,524 for vehicle extrication equipment. North Attleboro, MA - $137,091 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Sandwich, MA - $80,755 for firefighting hose and nozzles. Somerset, MA - $166,667 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Southwick, MA - $58,564 for an air compressor / air refill station. Rockport, MA - $28,572 for a protective gear washer and dryer. Townsend, MA - $53,334 for paramedic training. Whitman, MA - $233,144 for firefighter breathing apparatus. The SAFER grants were awarded to fire departments in the following cities and towns: Cohasset, MA - $313,013 to hire 2 new firefighters. Sherborn, MA - $169,855 to hire 1 new firefighter. "Massachusetts firefighters and first responders, who put their lives on the line daily to keep our families safe, deserve our full support," said Senator Elizabeth Warren. "I'm grateful for their service and glad that these grants will send needed federal resources to help our firefighters carry out their mission and continue protecting our communities." "From the opioid crisis, to storm control, to firefighting, our first responders protect our families every day and are the first to run into danger to keep us safe," said Senator Edward J. Markey. "These federal resources will ensure they have the resources and support they need to keep Massachusetts cities and towns safe and secure. This is the very least we can provide to the brave men and women August who protect our families and make us proud." "The Fire Departments of Cheshire, Dudley, Goshen and North Adams in western Massachusetts will benefit greatly from these timely grants from FEMA. I congratulate these communities for their hard work and leadership in securing this federal assistance. The brave men and women who serve as firefighters and first responders in our state deserve the resources necessary to do their jobs effectively. These important grants will keep their cities and towns safe," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "These federal fire grants for East Bridgewater, Milton, Whitman, Cohasset and Quincy will provide our dedicated firefighters with critical protective gear, additional personnel and increased safety research that will protect our first responders as they carry out their mission of protecting our communities," said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "I commend the Chief Timothy Harhen of the East Bridgewater Fire Department, Interim Chief Joe Jackson of the Quincy Fire Department, Chief John J. Grant of the Milton Fire Department, Chief Timothy Grenno of the Whitman Fire Department and Chief Robert Silvia of the Cohasset Fire Department for their strong leadership and in ensuring that our firefighters and have the equipment and resources necessary to safely do their jobs and keep our families safe. I would also like to thank Senator Warren and Senator Markey for their work in helping to secure these important grants." "The Ayer and Townsend Fire Departments received these needed federal funds through a competitive grant process, which speaks to both the quality of their applications and the Departments in general," said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. "Given the constraints on state and local budgets, competitive grant funds such as these help to maintain public safety in our communities and provide first responders with access to the resources they need to save lives. Our volunteer and career firefighters sacrifice a great deal to protect our communities and it is our duty to provide them with the equipment, staffing and training they need to keep their departments running safely and efficiently." "I am grateful that fire departments in our district are getting over $600,000," said Congressman Bill Keating. "These grants will help our first responders communicate, coordinate, and confront the emergencies that unfortunately face our communities every day. I congratulate all the departments on these grants and their continued good work." "As stewards of our safety, firefighters risk life and limb to protect our neighborhoods day and night," said Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy III. "With this increased federal funding, the Brookline, Norfolk, North Attleboro and Somerset Fire Departments can continue their excellent community care. I congratulate these departments on this well-deserved grant." "Our fire fighters play an integral role in maintaining the safety and stability of our communities," said Congresswoman Katherine Clark. "I am incredibly grateful to FEMA for making this investment in the Sherborn Fire Departments and keeping our first responders safe." "Municipal budgets are spread thin, often leaving our firefighters, police officers, and first responders inadequately prepared for the challenges they come across every day," said Congressman Seth Moulton. "These men and women are on the front lines of the opioid crisis and are the ones pulling flood victims from fast moving water. We owe it to them to keep them safe from exposure to carcinogens and toxins; something as simple as these specialized washing machines help with that fight. With additional resources and personnel, they will be better protected as they go about their work to keep us safe." ###
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after today’s oral arguments in Texas v. United States: “Today, the Trump Administration abandoned its responsibility to defend federal law and in doing so put health care coverage for 130 million Americans in the balance. In a move supported by congressional Republicans, the Trump Justice Department agreed with 20 Republican-led states that pre-existing condition protections should be eliminated. If the President and GOP attorneys general succeed in this latest attack, we’ll return to the days when insurance companies could charge people with pre-existing conditions more for coverage, or even deny coverage altogether. “Life is tough enough for American families without their own government standing up in federal court and refusing to protect their health and economic security. Regardless of the outcome of today’s hearing, Democrats will continue working to ensure strong protections for people living with pre-existing conditions remain in place.” ###
09.05.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Chairman, I know that the bills before us today have bipartisan support. Some are even issues of longstanding interest to our members. But I think we should recognize that these bills will do little to actually improve the everyday lives of Medicare beneficiaries, who face skyrocketing health care costs. Mr. Levin has a bill to add dental, vision, and hearing coverage to Medicare. Under current law, beneficiaries almost exclusively bear the burden for these costs – and it can be significant, especially for those on fixed incomes. But after two years, we have yet to even have a hearing on the issue. The Republican policies including the tax law drained three years from the life of the Medicare Trust Fund, yet this Republican Congress seems to be ignoring that issue. So while we are marking up these bills today, we should all remember the bigger and more important issues that are being ignored – issues that, if resolved, would improve the lives of millions of Medicare beneficiaries. Of the four health bills today, there is one that I have concerns with, and that is the bill relating to smart card use in Medicare. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has issued two reports over the last few years that indicate that smart card technology will have little effect in the fight against Medicare fraud – and at great cost to the program and burden to providers. While I appreciate the interest in fighting fraud, the $40 million for this demonstration would likely be better spent in the Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control (HCFAC) account, where, for every dollar spent on health care-related fraud and abuse investigations in the last three years, the government recovered $4.20 – equaling $31 billion over the life of the fraud program. I would be remiss not to mention that while we are holding this mark-up, a judge in Texas is hearing a case that could once again allow insurance companies to discriminate against the one in four Americans with pre-existing conditions. Republicans argued their tax bill would not harm people with pre-existing conditions. But the tax law eliminates the penalty for the individual mandate which is the cornerstone of the argument to overturn the Affordable Care Act protections. The Trump Administration decided to not defend the consumer protections in the ACA and act against Americans with pre-existing conditions. All this could have been prevented. But Republicans and the Trump Administration chose this path of undermining consumer protections and raising costs on American families. We are also considering today a Resolution of Inquiry that Mr. Pascrell has introduced. It would require the Administration to provide to the House documents and others materials related to the President’s decision to deviate from Commerce Department recommendations in imposing tariffs on steel and aluminum imports; the Administration’s strategy in negotiating with China to resolve its concerns about China’s forced technology transfer and IP theft policies; and plans made by the Administration to offset the harms caused by retaliatory tariffs. This resolution seeks accountability from the Administration to the House of Representatives, and the American people, for the trade policies it is implementing. It is easy to forget these days that the Constitution places authority for matters of trade in the hands of the Congress and not the executive. This resolution demands from the Administration respect for Congress’s primary role in trade. This is important any time, but especially now, when the President feels comfortable casually tweeting threats that Congress should not “interfere” with trade negotiations. ###
08.31.2018	Washington, DC - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Representatives Richard E. Neal, James P. McGovern, Michael Capuano, Niki Tsongas, William Keating, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Katherine Clark and Seth Moulton, announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded sixteen fire departments in Massachusetts nearly $4 million in federal grants. Ten fire departments received funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program, while four fire departments were awarded funding through the Staffing for Adequate & Fire Emergency Response (SAFER) program. Additionally, two fire departments were awarded grants through the Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) program. The AFG grants awarded to Massachusetts fire departments include: $293,966 to the Duxbury Fire Department for firefighter breathing apparatus and an air compressor / air refill station. $193,753 to the Shirley Fire Department for mobile and portable radios. $164,739 to the Tewksbury Fire Department for portable radios and a protective gear washer and dryer. $119,048 to the Maynard Fire Department for a fire sprinkler system for their fire station and wellness and fitness activities. $89,667 to the Rockland Fire Department for vehicle extrication equipment. $49,091 to the Somerville Fire Department for portable radios. $27,728 to the Arlington Fire Department for an air compressor / air refill station. $24,239 to the Westhampton Fire Department for a firefighting hose. $23,334 to the Harvard Fire Department for a firefighting hose. $22,858 to the Manchester Fire Department for vehicle extrication equipment. The SAFER grants awarded to Massachusetts fire departments include: $802,841 to the Mansfield Fire Department to hire four new firefighters. $731,032 to the Somerset Fire Department to hire four new firefighters. $604,839 to the Reading Fire Department to hire four new firefighters. $505,006 to the Stoneham Fire Department to hire four new firefighters. The FP&S grants awarded to Massachusetts fire departments include: $171,299 to the Worcester Fire Department to implement a Cooking Fire Education & Prevention Campaign. $6,180 to the Dunstable Fire Department for fire investigator training. "The federal government should be a strong partner for our cities and towns, and that means supporting our firefighters and first responders," said Senator Warren. "These federal dollars will help ensure that our firefighters have the staffing, training and equipment necessary to continue protecting our communities in the safest way possible. I am grateful for their tireless service to the Commonwealth and grateful to FEMA for their continued support." "We need to support our first responders in the same way they support us, with timely action," said Senator Edward J. Markey. "That's why this funding for brace and committed firefighters is so vital. There's no price that can be placed on the value of heroism, but these grants will go a long way towards giving our firefighters the tools and resources they need to keep doing their jobs for our cities and towns across the Commonwealth." "The Westhampton Fire Department will benefit greatly from this $24,239 grant from FEMA for a new firefighting hose. I congratulate Fire Chief Christopher Norris for his leadership in securing this valuable federal assistance. The brave men and women who serve as firefighters and first responders in western Massachusetts deserve the necessary resources to do their jobs effectively. This important grant will help make the Town of Westhampton safer," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "Preventing fires before they start is one of the best ways to keep our first responders out of harm's way," said Congressman McGovern. "Cooking is the leading cause of home fires in the United States. This Fire Prevention and Safety Grant allows the Worcester Fire Department to implement a cooking fire education & prevention campaign that will help keep our families - and our firefighters - safe." "We should never send firefighters into harm's way without all the equipment and staffing they need," said Congressman Michael Capuano. "This round of AFG and SAFER grants will help purchase vital equipment, like portable radios for Somerville firefighters, and fund vital firefighter positions across the Commonwealth. I applaud FEMA for this investment." "The Harvard, Maynard, Shirley, and Dunstable Fire Departments received these needed federal funds through a competitive grant process, which speaks to both the quality of their applications and the Departments in general," said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. "Given the constraints on state and local budgets, competitive grant funds such as these help to maintain public safety in our communities and provide first responders with access to the resources they need to save lives. Our volunteer and career firefighters sacrifice a great deal to protect our communities and it is our duty to provide them with the equipment, staffing and training they need to keep their departments running safely and efficiently." "Our first responders are put in difficult situations on a day to day basis," said Congressman Bill Keating. "I am very glad to see Rockland and Duxbury's Fire Departments get over $300,000 to upgrade the equipment they need to keep themselves and out communities safe." "As stewards of our safety, firefighters risk life and limb to protect our neighborhoods day and night," said Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy III. "With this increased federal funding, the Mansfield Fire Department can significantly expand their ranks and continue their excellent community care. I congratulate the department on this well-deserved grant." "Our firefighters risk everything to protect our communities and deserve all the support and resources we can muster to protect them in return," said Congresswoman Katherine Clark. "I extend my congratulations to Arlington and Stoneham for securing these critical grant dollars that will strengthen their already impressive fire departments." More information about FEMA's fire grant programs is available here. ###
08.31.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration notified Congress that it intends to sign an agreement with Mexico and Canada: “As I said earlier this week, a lot of important work still remains to be done in the NAFTA renegotiation. I expect the Administration will do what it takes to make it possible for all three parties to continue their work to reach an actual, final agreement to modernize and fix the flaws in the original NAFTA. As part of that modernization and remediation, I expect any renegotiated agreement will be fully enforceable and enforced. “I urge the Administration to work closely with Congress and the Ways and Means Committee in bringing this negotiation to conclusion and then to share the text of a final agreement with the public so that Members of Congress and the American people can see and judge the results for themselves.” ###
08.30.2018	(SPRINGFIELD, MA) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in response to President Donald J. Trump’s proposal to cancel a pay raise for nearly 2 million federal employees. “The public servants who make up our civilian federal workforce deserve to be compensated fairly for the important work that they do each day on behalf of our country. That is why I strongly oppose President Trump’s proposal today to cancel a pay raise for nearly 2 million hard working Americans. Does the president really believe the nurse at the VA hospital who looks after our brave veterans is not entitled to a raise in pay? What about the TSA agent who protects our airports? Or the FEMA official who is bringing disaster relief to families in need? Don’t’ they deserve to see a little more in their paycheck each week? President Trump said the reason for canceling the pay raise was economic sustainability and the need to save money. But he was not preaching fiscal rectitude last year when he signed a $1.5 trillion tax cut that primarily benefits the wealthy. As we prepare to celebrate Labor Day, the work of our federal employees should be acknowledged, and their modest pay raise should not be cancelled,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
08.29.2018	(SPRINGFIELD, MA) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Ranking Member of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, today welcomed in the strongest possible terms the decision by the International Trade Commission to overturn a decision by the U.S. Department of Commerce to impose tariffs on Canadian newsprint. In recent weeks, Neal has raised this issue with senior members of the Trump administration on numerous occasions and spoke about the impact tariffs would have on the viability of the American newspaper industry. He called today’s decision “ a great victory for local newspapers and the millions of American’s who faithfully read them each day.” “Stopping unfair tariffs on Canadian newsprint has been a priority of mine as the Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and that is why am so pleased with today’s announcement from the International Trade Commission (ITC). Today’s unanimous decision clearly demonstrates that our domestic paper industry is not harmed by imported newsprint. It is a great victory for local newspapers and the millions of Americans who faithfully read them each day. In the last month, I have raised the issue of tariffs directly with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and the Chairman of the U.S. International Trade Commission David Johnson. On each occasion I have stressed how local newspapers have been hit hard by the transition to online news sources and other dramatic changes in the industry. In my opinion, imposing tariffs on Canadian newsprint would add another unwarranted burden on an industry already in a precarious economic position. With today’s emphatic ruling by the ITC, community newspapers are protected, local jobs are being saved, and the tariff discussion is now closed,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
08.28.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced it had resolved bilateral matters with Mexico in the ongoing renegotiation of NAFTA and would resume discussions with Canada: “A lot of important work remains to be done in the NAFTA renegotiation. The Administration and Mexico now must focus on their discussions with Canada in order to reach an actual, final agreement to modernize and fix the flaws in the original NAFTA. I would also suggest the Trump Administration not circumvent Congress, but consult closely with Ways and Means members and other members of both the House and the Senate as this process proceeds so that the committee with jurisdiction over trade matters and the institution with constitutional authority over trade remain fully engaged in future developments. “Fundamental to modernizing and fixing the original NAFTA’s shortcomings is making the agreement’s obligations both enforceable and enforced. Otherwise, the efforts of the past year risk amounting to little more than re-arranging the deck chairs on the Titanic.” ###
08.27.2018	Washington, DC - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Representative Richard E. Neal, announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded three fire departments in Western Massachusetts. The funding was awarded through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. The AFG grants awarded to Western Massachusetts fire departments include: $886,364 to the Wabaunsee County Fire Department for an aerial ladder truck. $232,446 to the Maple Heights Fire Department for three power cots and ambulance lift systems and firefighter protective gear. $5,848 to the Pineywoods Volunteer Fire Department for firefighter and fire officer training. "Firefighters in Massachusetts and across the country risk their lives for their communities every day, and we owe it to them to do everything we can to ensure they have the resources they need to continue safeguarding our communities while protecting themselves," said Senator Elizabeth Warren. "These grants will go a long way towards achieving that goal and I am grateful to FEMA for their support." "We need to support our first responders in the same way they support us - with action and commitment," said Senator Edward J. Markey. "These federal grants will ensure our Commonwealth fire departments have the resources and humanpower they need to keep the public safe and secure. I congratulate them on securing this critical funding." “The Fire Departments of Holyoke, West Springfield and Charlemont in western Massachusetts will benefit greatly from these timely grants from FEMA. I congratulate Holyoke Fire Chief John Pond, West Springfield Fire Chief William Flaherty, and Charlemont Interim Fire Chief Dennis Annear for their leadership in securing this federal assistance. The brave men and women who serve as firefighters and first responders in our state deserve the necessary resources to do their jobs effectively. These important grants will make their cities and towns safer,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. More information about FEMA's fire grant programs is available here. ###
08.24.2018	(SPRINGFIELD, MA) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in response to Senator John McCain’s (R-AZ) decision to discontinue medical treatment. The 82 year-old McCain has been battling a terminal form brain cancer since July 2017. “John McCain is a patriot who has served our nation throughout his life with honor and distinction. From his remarkable heroism in Vietnam, to a distinguished career as the maverick of the United States Senate, John McCain pursued the path of public service. The American people have admired his straight talk and bipartisan leadership for decades. He has always put country first. Since last summer, Senator McCain has battled his cancer diagnosis with great courage, grace and dignity. His decision to discontinue medical treatment today must be very hard for his family and loved ones. During this difficult time, I will keep him in my thoughts and prayers,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
08.23.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after the Treasury Department released new regulations focused on the state and local tax (SALT) deduction: “Today, the Trump Administration doubled down on its attack on the middle class. The discriminatory Republican tax law capped the SALT deduction that average, hardworking families in many states rely on to afford owning their homes. The Administration’s new regulations block affected states’ attempts to cope with this significant change and protect residents from double taxation. With this unfair deduction cap, President Trump and congressional Republicans raise taxes on millions of American families and potentially restrict the ability of state and local governments to invest in critical community infrastructure, schools, and services.”
08.21.2018	(SPRINGFIELD, MA) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in response to Senator Elizabeth Warren’s (D-MA) speech at the National Press Club where she unveiled sweeping anti-corruption legislation designed to change the culture in Washington, D.C. and reduce the influence of big money in politics. “I welcome Senator Warren’s timely proposal to change the culture of Washington and restore the American people’s faith in our public institutions. In my opinion, the people who work inside the Beltway need to do a better job fighting for the interests of people who live outside the Beltway. There needs to be more transparency, accountability and openness in government. And we need to do a better job at reducing the influence of big money in politics. That is why I have consistently voted for comprehensive campaign finance reform legislation, support full disclosure requirements and believe the Citizens United decision of 2010 must be overturned. People need to know that their voices are being heard and that government is on their side. Senator Warren’s plan addresses these concerns and is a good step in the right direction,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
08.09.2018	Williamsburg, MA – United States Congressman Richard E. Neal visited the Williamsburg Fire Department Thursday to deliver a $45,623 grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Congressman Neal was joined by Fire Chief Jason A. Connell, Town Administrator Charlene Nardi, and other town officials at the station for the announcement. The Williamsburg Fire Department will be able to purchase six self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA), twelve air bottles and personal masks for each firefighter with this funding. “Congratulations to the Williamsburg Fire Department for being awarded this grant,” said Congressman Neal. “These grants are highly competitive and judged by former firefighters and fire officials. With the acquisition of this new equipment, the call/volunteer department will be able to confidently provide the community with reliable emergency service in any situation.” “The Williamsburg Fire Department is grateful to department member, Firefighter Shawna Rogers and grant writer Lisa Sihvonen-Binder of Cricklewood consulting for preparing and reviewing the grant over a month-long process,” said Chief Connell. “We would also like to thank the Williamsburg Firefighters Association for providing funding and support for this grant. Without the continued support of the association, equipment like this would come at a greater cost to the taxpayers of the town of Williamsburg. In closing we would like to acknowledge the support of the Williamsburg Selectboard, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Senator Edward Markey, State Senator Adam Hines, and Congressman Richard Neal.” According to Chief Connell, the grant covers 95% of the total estimated cost for the SCBAs and masks. The remaining 5% will be covered by the Williamsburg Firefighters Association, which leaves zero cost to the Town of Williamsburg. The primary goal of the AFG program is to “enhance the safety of the public and firefighters with respect to fire-related hazards by providing direct financial assistance to eligible fire departments, nonaffiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations, and State Fire Training Academies. This funding is for critically needed resources to equip and train emergency personnel to recognized standards, enhance operations efficiencies, foster interoperability, and support community resilience.” Congressman Neal also visited the Williamsburg Police Department and the Senior Center. ##
08.07.2018	Washington, DC - The Massachusetts congressional delegation, including United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, and Representatives Richard Neal, James McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, William Keating, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Katherine Clark and Seth Moulton, today sent a letter to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma expressing concern with CMS's proposed rule to restrict home care workers' ability to voluntarily have union dues automatically deducted from their paychecks. The CMS proposal could erode the ability of hundreds of thousands of home care workers in Massachusetts and across the country to exercise their rights to participate in union organizing and collective bargaining. Last month, CMS issued its "Reassignment of Medicaid Provider Claims" proposed rule, which could prevent independent home care workers whose wages are paid with Medicaid dollars from choosing to have union dues automatically deducted from their paychecks. 45,000 individual home care workers in Massachusetts, along with hundreds of thousands more around the country, are represented by unions, and many use automatic dues deduction for the sake of convenience. In their letter to Administrator Verma, the lawmakers highlighted the particular importance of collective bargaining to the home care workforce, which is made up disproportionately of women and workers of color and has historically been excluded from wage, safety, and retirement protections. The lawmakers also criticized the rule as needlessly diminishing the collective bargaining rights of home care workers. "The right to form unions and to bargain collectively for better wages and conditions...is a fundamental step toward ensuring these workers have dignity and a meaningful voice on the job that they have been unjustly denied for far too long," the lawmakers wrote. "The proposal to prohibit these workers from requesting that union dues be deducted from their paychecks--money that they have earned with their own hard work--is insulting, counterproductive, and hard to view as anything other than an attempt to roll back home care workers' collective bargaining rights." In addition, the lawmakers pointed out that CMS's proposal, which would restrict employees' control over voluntary payments to a union, contradicts the argument made by the Trump Administration in the Janus v. AFSCME case, that workers should maintain total control over how the money in their paychecks is spent. "The Trump administration's positions in Janus and in this proposal therefore seem completely contradictory, but for one aspect: they propose curtailing the ability of hard-working Americans to join together and bargain collectively for better wages, benefits, and conditions," the lawmakers continued. The lawmakers called on Administrator Verma to refrain from proceeding with this rulemaking and interfering in home care workers' ability to voluntarily pay union dues in the manner that they choose. ###
08.01.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after reports that the Trump Administration was considering bypassing Congress and granting $100 billion in tax cuts to wealthy: “It appears nothing will get in the way of the Trump Administration’s quest to cut taxes for the ultra-wealthy, including exploding deficits and sagging public opinion. While American families are still awaiting their long promised $4,000 raise, the Trump Administration appears to be considering doubling down on their failed tax cuts for the well-off and well-connected. Such a move would be irresponsible, legally dubious, and add to the mountain of debt created by the first Republican tax cut. Any attempt by the Trump Administration to circumvent Congress and hand billions of dollars to the wealthiest Americans will be met with stiff and vocal opposition by Ways & Means Democrats.” ###
07.30.2018	East Longmeadow, MA – United States Congressman Richard E. Neal announced a federal grant to the East Longmeadow Fire Department Monday afternoon totaling $132,404. The award, from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG) program will allow the department to purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus. “This is great news for the East Longmeadow Fire Department,” said Congressman Neal. “The acquisition of new self-contained breathing apparatus will ensure firefighter safety in hazardous conditions and allow them to serve their community more effectively.” “The East Longmeadow Fire Department is grateful to be awarded a FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant,” said Chief Paul J. Morrissette. “These funds will be used to replace 20 obsolete self-contained breathing apparatus with 20 new units that are equipped with the latest safety features meeting the most recent National Fire Protection Association Standards. I would like to thank Congressman Neal and his colleagues at the federal level for their continued support in the Assistance to Firefighters program.” The primary goal of FEMA’s AFG program is to “enhance the safety of the public and firefighters with respect to fire-related hazards by providing direct financial assistance to eligible fire departments, nonaffiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations, and State Fire Training Academies. This funding is for critically needed resources to equip and train emergency personnel to recognized standards, enhance operations efficiencies, foster interoperability, and support community resilience.” ##
07.27.2018	Washington, DC - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Representatives Richard E. Neal, James P. McGovern, Michael E. Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, and Joseph P. Kennedy III, Seth Moulton and Katherine Clark announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded eighteen fire departments in Massachusetts approximately $4.8 million in federal grants. Seventeen fire departments received funding through FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) program, which provides resources for firefighters and first responders to obtain the equipment, protective gear, training and other resources necessary for protecting the communities they serve. Additionally, the Dudley Fire Department was awarded a grant through the Staffing for Adequate & Fire Emergency Response (SAFER) program to support the hiring of trained, "front line" firefighters in communities. The FEMA fire grants awarded today to Massachusetts fire departments include: $1,016,995 to the Boston Fire Department for portable radios, a firefighter accountability system, and wellness & fitness training. $172,427 to the Boston, Brookline, Cambridge, Chelsea, Everett, Revere, Somerville, Quincy and Winthrop Fire Departments for technical rescue training. $486,364 to the Fitchburg Fire Department for a pumper truck. $809,524 to the Foxborough Fire Department for an aerial ladder truck. $629,254 to the Georgetown, Groveland and Newbury Fire Departments for firefighter breathing apparatus. $917,007 to the Lowell Fire Department for a firefighter breathing apparatus, firefighter protective gear, and an air compressor / refill system. $476,191 to the Orange Fire Department for a pumper truck. $85,715 to the Orange Fire Department for an air compressor refill system. $37,637 to the Shrewsbury Fire Department for protective gear washers and dryers. $138,856 to the Dudley Fire Department to hire one new firefighter. “Every day our firefighters put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren. “I am grateful for their tireless service and glad that these federal grants will help ensure fire departments across Massachusetts have the resources they need to carry out their mission safely and effectively.” “Our firefighters are committed to ensuring the safety and security of our towns, and this new funding will enhance their ability to do so,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “These heroes deserve the best equipment and resources available to them so they can continue to assist residents in their time of need. I commend all of the local leaders for their persistence in obtaining these critical federal funds.” “Congratulations to the Town of Dudley for their work in securing this federal grant that will add one new firefighter to their force,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Having another trained firefighter on staff will certainly benefit the department and the community. This is tremendous news.” “Every single day, courageous firefighters in cities and towns across our commonwealth put their lives on the line to protect us,” said Congressman Jim McGovern. “Keeping our communities safe starts with making strong investments in our first responders, and I’m proud that this new funding for firefighting equipment in Orange and Shrewsbury will help us protect them” “Our firefighters do dangerous work every day. It’s important to do everything we can to ensure they have what they need to effectively and safely do their jobs. This federal funding will support rescue training exercises, truck purchases and other necessary equipment, giving our firefighters essential resources,” stated Congressman Mike Capuano. "In Massachusetts we are fortunate to have the best firefighters in the world. So they deserve to have the best equipment and training available,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “These federal grants will help protect our firefighters as they keep our families safe. I am grateful to Boston Fire Commissioner Joe Finn and Quincy Fire Chief Joe Barron, as well as Senators Markey and Warren, for their help securing these grants.” “As stewards of our safety, firefighters risk life and limb to protect our neighborhoods day and night,” said Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy III. “With these AFG funds and this new ladder truck, the Foxborough Fire Department will be better prepared as they continue their mission to care for their neighbors. I congratulate Chief Hatfield and the entire department on this well-earned and deserved award.” “Our firefighters play an integral role in our communities,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “This grant will help ensure the safety of our first responders. I am grateful to FEMA for recognizing the need to invest in local fire departments and keeping our first responders safe.” “The brave men and women in our local fire departments are on the frontlines of public safety every day,” said Congresswoman Katherine Clark. “I am incredibly grateful for their selfless dedication to our cities and towns and that we were able to secure these additional resources to support their critical work.” More information about FEMA's fire grant programs is available here. ###
07.27.2018	Pittsfield, MA – U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal, Pittsfield Mayor Linda Tyer, and North Adams Mayor Thomas Bernard joined city officials for two federal grant announcements from the U.S. Department of Transportation today. The grants, from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), will provide Pittsfield Municipal Airport with $315,000 to update the airport master plan to show current and future needs of the facility; and $90,000 to the Harriman-And-West Airport in the City of North Adams to address key issues, objectives, and goals pertinent to the airport’s future development. “This is terrific news for both North Adams and Pittsfield,” said Congressman Neal. “The fact that these two communities are able to continue to operate public airports is impressive. I am certain that the funding provided from these FAA grants will ensure the longevity and success of both facilities.” Mayor Tyer said, “I deeply appreciate the Federal Aviation Administration’s investment toward the Airport Master Plan for the Pittsfield Municipal Airport. This grant funding will continue to advance the important work of the master plan, which includes several areas of priority including aviation forecast, expanded facility requirements, and an update to the airport layout plan. We look forward to the collaborative process ahead and the benefits that will result for the airport’s tenants, users, and the community.” “I’m grateful to the FAA, and to Congressman Neal, for their support for Harriman-And-West airport in North Adams, and in particular for recognizing the need and the opportunity to update the airport’s master plan,” said Mayor Bernard. “This is a positive development for the facility, one that will provide insight about current and future needs around operating space, use patterns, facilities, and management structure. Informed by these studies, the resulting master plan will provide a framework to manage current operations and future growth. The grant complements existing plans for a new administration building, and will help provide increased structure and stability for the airport, which serves hobbyists, small businesses, and a major aircraft maintenance facility.” Pittsfield Municipal Airport and Harriman-And-West Airport are both general, regional aviation airports located in Berkshire County. ##
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) today introduced The Lower Out-of-Pocket Costs for Seniors Act, which would make permanent an Affordable Care Act provision that limits the growth of consumer out-of-pocket spending in the Medicare Part D program. The Democrats’ proposal would save Medicare beneficiaries billions of dollars annually on prescription drugs. Under the current system, once Medicare beneficiaries hit an annual out-of-pocket spending threshold they can access what is known as catastrophic coverage that allows seniors to pay significantly less for their prescription drugs. However, the catastrophic coverage threshold is scheduled to jump in 2020, increasing the amount of money beneficiaries must spend to access the lower catastrophic coverage rates for prescription drugs. The Lower Out-of-Pocket Costs for Seniors Act would make the current out-of-pocket threshold permanent, averting the looming 2020 threshold increase and saving seniors billions of dollars in out-of-pocket costs. “Health care, and specifically prescription drugs, can cost seniors thousands of dollars a year. For Americans who are retired or on a fixed income, any increase in those out-of-pocket costs can become a significant financial burden,” said Ranking Member Neal. “With this legislation, Congressman Pallone and I want to prevent the Medicare Part D prescription drug costs from skyrocketing and draining money out of Americans’ savings. Limiting the growth of the out-of-pocket threshold will not only help seniors afford the medication they need, but it will provide them with greater long-term financial security.” “Seniors are already struggling with out-of-pocket costs and simply cannot afford to spend more on prescription drugs,” Ranking Member Pallone said. “This legislation is a commonsense proposal that will prevent seniors from facing the sticker shock of higher prescription drugs costs in 2020. Congressman Neal and I know that the cost of prescription drugs are skyrocketing, and the House should pass our legislation to ensure that seniors are not forced to spend more of their monthly income on medications they need to live healthier lives.” Under the current system, Medicare beneficiaries already spend nearly $27 billion annually on out-of-pocket on prescription drugs costs. The cost of prescription drugs for older Americans is on average $26,000 per year while the median annual income for a Medicare beneficiary is $26,200. The Lower Out-of-Pocket Costs for Seniors Act is supported by the National Council on Aging, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Alliance for Retired Americans, Medicare Rights Center, and the Center for Medicare Advocacy. “The National Council on Aging (NCOA deeply appreciates the leadership of Ranking Members Frank Pallone of the Energy and Commerce Committee and Richard Neal of the Ways and Means Committee, in proposing legislation to help people with Medicare afford their expensive prescription drugs,” said Howard Bedlin, NCOA Vice President for Public Policy and Advocacy. “The Lower Out-of-Pocket Costs for Seniors Act prevents the out-of-pocket threshold for catastrophic coverage from increasing by $1,250 to $6,350 in 2020. If this amount is permitted to increase, beneficiaries would have to pay more before reducing their out-of-pocket coinsurance to just 5% of prescription drug costs after the threshold is reached. Half of Medicare beneficiaries have incomes below about $26,200, and millions have multiple chronic conditions that require costly prescription medications. These seniors and people with disabilities could save thousands of dollars in reduced out-of-pocket costs under the bill. We urge members to cosponsor the bill and encourage a bipartisan effort to pass this crucial legislation.” Bill text is available HERE. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Congresswoman Jacky Rosen (NV-03) introduced a resolution that would authorize the Office of the General Counsel of the U.S. House of Representatives to intervene in a pending federal lawsuit on behalf of the House to defend the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act’s coverage protections for people with pre-existing conditions. The resolution is co-sponsored by the Ranking Members of all House committees of jurisdiction in addition to Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer.In June, the Trump Administration’s Justice Department effectively announced it will no longer defend key parts of the ACA that prevent insurance companies from charging more to cover pre-existing conditions or denying coverage altogether. According to the Center for American Progress, approximately 1.2 million Nevadans have a pre-existing medical condition. Last week, Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) introduced a similar Senate resolution authorizing the Senate Legal Counsel to intervene in Texas vs. United States.“I’m fighting back against this latest assault on our health care system in federal court and stepping up to ensure we defend coverage protections for my constituents and hardworking Americans across the country who have a pre-existing medical condition,” said Rosen. “Refusing to defend the existing law could take us back to the days when insurance companies could discriminate against people for everything from battling cancer to being pregnant. I refuse to sit on the sidelines while this Administration declines to defend these life-saving protections, and I hope members of Congress on both sides of the aisle will support this resolution. No issue is more personal or more important than protecting our health care, and I’ll continue to work with my colleagues against any effort to roll back access to affordable health care for Nevadans.”“Just like Republicans in Congress, the Trump Administration has turned its back on the 130 million Americans who have pre-existing medical conditions,” said Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “The Justice Department’s exceptional refusal to defend existing law demands exceptional action from the legislative branch – that’s why I’ve signed my name to this resolution. Families across the nation will gravely suffer if we return to the days when insurance companies could discriminate against or deny coverage altogether from people for having conditions like diabetes, asthma, epilepsy, and cancer – or simply for being a woman. We must ensure these critical protections remain in place to help Americans retain their access to care and avoid financial ruin.”“The Trump administration’s cynical attempt to subvert the law and eliminate pre-existing condition protections for 130 million Americans is an attack on the American health care system. Democrats won’t stand idly by while President Trump and his Republican allies in Congress seek to increase costs, drive up uninsured rates, and deny coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions, ” said Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr., Ranking Member on the Energy and Commerce Committee. “I commend Rep. Rosen for her strong leadership in the fight to protect access to affordable health care for all Americans.”“The Trump Administration’s refusal to defend key protections in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is not only a threat to what has been the law of the land for over 8 years, it represents the abandonment of a longstanding, bipartisan commitment by the Department of Justice to defend duly enacted federal laws in federal court,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee. “The Department of Justice has an obligation to defend the ACA and the vital protections it provides to the 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions. In failing to defend these provisions, the Trump Administration is trying—yet again—to sabotage the ACA at the expense of consumers across the nation. The Constitution requires the Executive Branch to “take care that the laws are faithfully executed.” Congress makes the laws and the Executive Branch enforces them, and there is no excuse or legal justification for refusing to defend a federal statute.”“The Trump administration’s attack on protections for patients with pre-existing conditions could strip access to affordable health care from millions of Americans,” said Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the House Education and Workforce Committee. “Members of Congress have a responsibility to defend our constituents from the administration’s repeated attempts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. This case is no exception.”“Republicans’ voted to destroy protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions in their Trumpcare bill, and now they’re suing to destroy these life-saving protections in the courts,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “Republicans want to drag us back to the dark days of insurance companies discriminating against people with asthma, diabetes, cancer, or heart conditions, where innocent children will be condemned to life without affordable health coverage because of illnesses or injuries they did nothing to deserve. Democrats are proud to stand with the American people to fight these bitter GOP attacks on families’ health, financial security and futures.”"By declining to defend the Affordable Care Act in court, the Trump Administration is doubling-down on its efforts to sabotage the law and dismantle its consumer protections and cost-savings,” said Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. “ I’m proud to join Rep. Rosen in introducing this resolution that would enable the House of Representatives to defend the law instead. Since coming to Congress, Rep. Rosen has been a champion for affordable, quality health coverage in Nevada and across the country, and her resolution aims to combat the Trump Administration’s continued undermining of the nation’s health care system.” ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement following the passage of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in the House today. “Today, I voted for the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. As one of the conferees that helped shepherd through this important legislation, I paid a great deal of attention to the interests of the First District of Massachusetts. In western and central Massachusetts, there are two military bases and numerous companies with nearly 11,000 jobs that help drive the economy of the region. Westover Air Reserve Base and Barnes Air National Guard Base alone contribute over $350 million to the local economy. It is vital that these large employers such as Westover and Barnes, as well as General Dynamics, and Warren Pumps have adequate support from the federal government to continue their work supporting the national security interests of the nation. “FY19 NDAA significantly benefits the First District in many tangible ways. Most notably, this legislation authorizes the construction of a $42.6 million Regional ISO Maintenance Hangar at Westover Air Reserve Base. I have advocated for this state-of-the-art facility throughout my tenure in Congress. It will replace the current 70-year-old hangar and better equip Westover to fulfill its mission now and into the future. In addition, NDAA authorizes a 2.6% pay raise for all military personnel, as well as establishes a prescription drug monitoring program to help combat opioid drug abuse inside the military. “I am confident that this legislation will be valuable for our troops, their families, and for all constituents in the First District in the coming years.” ##
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following statement after Republicans released the outline of the second phase of their tax plan: “Republicans’ first tax bill exposed the party’s real priorities: big corporations and people at the top. Wages aren’t rising, workers are getting laid off, and average families aren’t feeling any relief. This new framework is more of the same – it rewards the well-off and well-connected, fails to reinstate the state and local tax deduction, and leaves the middle class behind. All the while, Republicans are saddling future generations with trillions of dollars of debt and setting the stage to cut programs like Medicare and Social Security. “Democrats believe in tax reform that provides relief to hardworking families and small businesses. Instead of passing policies that deepen inequality and increase complexity, Democrats envision a simpler tax code that helps Americans afford housing, pay for education, access skills training, and save for a secure retirement. And unlike the Republican tax law that incentivizes companies to move jobs overseas, Democrats want policy that encourages American businesses to invest in American jobs, grow their U.S. presence, and remain competitive in the global economy.” ###
07.20.2018	Washington, DC - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Representatives Richard E. Neal, Mike Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, and Niki Tsongas, announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded five fire departments in Massachusetts nearly $1.4 million in federal grants. The funding, which was awarded through FEMA's Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) program, will help provide the critical resources required to train and equip emergency personnel in order to meet official standards, increase efficiency and interoperability, and help make departments and the communities they serve more resilient. The FEMA fire grants awarded today to Massachusetts fire departments include: $578,215 to the Brockton Fire Department for a firefighter breathing apparatus and an air refill station. $158,182 to the Chelsea Fire Department for driver/operator training. $521,274 to the Dennis Fire Department for firefighter protective gear and communications equipment. $16,364 to the Lawrence Fire Department for driver/operator training. $81,334 to the Three Rivers Fire Department for a firefighter breathing apparatus. "Massachusetts firefighters put their lives on the line day in and day out to keep our families safe, and they deserve our full support," said Senator Warren. "These federal grants will help our brave first responders by ensuring our local fire departments have the training and equipment they need to carry out their mission and continue protecting our communities." "Our firefighters bravely answer the call to protect our residents every day as they respond to emergencies in our communities," said Senator Markey. "Firefighters deserve the best available equipment so that they can efficiently and effectively ensure the safety and security of our cities and towns. I am grateful for their hard work and dedication, and I commend each of these fire departments for pursuing these critical federal funds." "This is tremendous news for the Three Rivers Fire Department in the Town of Palmer," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "The fact that a volunteer department was able to secure federal funding of this magnitude is really a testament to the dedication of the grant writers, especially when you think of all the other departments that apply for these kinds of grants. The new breathing apparatus that will be purchased with these monies will ensure the safety of all the firefighters, whether they are working in the Town of Palmer or providing mutual aid to one of the neighboring communities." "Our firefighters understand that their job is a dangerous one, yet they are committed to helping keep our communities safe and it's important to support them in every way we can. This grant funding will help the City of Chelsea fund crucial operator training as well as other important initiatives in the state," stated Congressman Mike Capuano. "As the responsibilities of firefighters in Massachusetts and across the country grow more complicated, it is critical that they have the resources necessary to meet the shifting needs of their communities," said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "I am grateful to Chief Michael Williams for his tremendous leadership of the Brockton Fire Department, and to Senators Markey and Warren for their help securing this grant. It will make a substantial impact on our efforts to keep our firefighters and the City of Brockton safe." "Ensuring our fire departments have equipment that protects firefighters' health is critical to their mission," said Congresswoman Tsongas. "The Lawrence Fire Department received these needed federal funds through a competitive grant process, which speaks to both the quality of their applications and the Department in general. Given the constraints on state and local budgets, competitive grant funds such as these help to maintain public safety in our communities and provide first responders with access to the resources they need to save lives. Our volunteer and career firefighters sacrifice a great deal to protect our communities and it is our duty to provide them with the equipment, staffing and training they need to keep their departments running safely and efficiently." More information about FEMA's fire grant programs is available here. ###
07.20.2018	WASHINGTON – United States Congressman Richard E. Neal was named a 2017 Defender for Children by Focus First Campaign for Children for his advocacy for children during the First Session of the 115th Congress. The organization says that Defenders for Children are representatives “who are willing to focus on, support, raise their voices, and attach their name to legislation that would improve the lives of our nation’s children and actively oppose legislation that would harm kids.” “As a father, a grandfather, a former high school teacher, and a longtime college lecturer, children of all ages have always been a large part of my life,” said Congressman Neal. “I am honored to receive this distinction from the Focus First Campaign for Children as I continue to focus on giving a voice to those who may be too young to have their own or to garner attention on the national level. We must continue to pay attention to children from all backgrounds and all walks of life and ensure that we keep their best interests in mind on the House floor.” Focus First Campaign for Children is a 501(c)(4) bipartisan nonprofit organization that advocates in Congress for the unique needs of children and families. The 2017 award was presented to 120 representatives including 40 senators and 80 representatives. More information can be found here. ##
07.19.2018	Mr. Speaker, I am discouraged to come to the floor today to squander the valuable time of this body, arguing over a pointless resolution that will accomplish nothing for the people of this country, whether it is accepted or rejected. Let’s be very clear about what this resolution does and does not do. We are not arguing today over whether this body will or will not adopt a tax on carbon emissions. This resolution merely—and I am quoting—“express[es] the sense of Congress” about a carbon tax. What do we achieve by voting on the mood of Congress? Nothing! Mr. Speaker, this is an exercise better suited to a high school debate class, not the United States House of Representatives. There are plenty of people across this country who need real help and real action from this Congress. Everyday American families—people far away from this building, far away from this city—are struggling with real problems. They feel their standard of living slipping away from them. They want to feel some security—security that their jobs will stick around, security that they can count on their health insurance, security that one day they’ll be able to retire with dignity, security that they will be able to launch their kids into a successful and happy life. The Republican leadership of this chamber has the power to choose to bring forward legislation that would help American families with any one of those challenges today. Instead, we are using one of our precious remaining legislative days to hold an amateur debating club. This empty gesture—this political stunt—is not worthy of the time or attention of this body. When I go home and talk to my constituents and my neighbors, they want to hear what I plan to do to ensure that their hard work still translates into a decent life. Something around us is going wrong—there’s a growing anxiety around this country that is bigger than our political divide. It’s a building sense that, at some point when we weren’t looking, the system was rigged against ordinary people. The rules changed on us, and hard work isn’t enough to guarantee that you can make it anymore. The unemployment rate is low, but 65 percent of Americans worry about having enough money to pay their bills. One in five Americans has more credit-card debt than emergency savings. Less than 40 percent of the people in this country have enough savings to cover a $1,000 emergency room visit or car repair. It’s plain to see in my district. In my hometown of Springfield, Massachusetts, the median household income is $55,000—and it rose less than 1.5 percent from last year. At the same time that income has barely moved, home prices went up 9 percent in our market last year, a gallon of gas there costs 28 percent more than last year, and electricity bills in Massachusetts are up 21 percent over last year. Child care, saving for college and retirement, healthcare premiums—people can’t keep up. Teachers have to pick up jobs waiting tables or driving for Uber. Families need to juggle multiple jobs just to get by. But today’s economy isn’t equally hard on everyone. The average Wall Street bonus—not the salary, mind you, just the bonus—is now $185,000. It rose 17 percent after the Republicans passed their tax bill last year. That’s three times what most American families bring home in an entire year. If it seems like things used to be easier, it’s because things used to be easier. Americans born in the 1940s had a 92 percent chance of earning a higher income than their parents had at age 30. Those born in the 1980s have a 50 percent chance of doing so. And the tax bill that the Republicans passed last year—without a single hearing and without a single Democratic vote—will make things substantially worse. People don’t really need to hear these statistics—they know it intuitively. Three out of four Americans are not confident that today’s children will grow up to be better off than their parents. They’re right to worry. Healthcare used to be easier to afford. The new Republican tax law raised premiums 15 percent and weakened protections for the millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions. Then the Republicans wanted to slash $500 billion out of the Medicare program that so many of our family members depend on. What have families gotten from the Republicans on healthcare? Higher deductibles, higher costs, and plans that cover less. The cost of a four-year degree at a public college has doubled since 1996. That basic ticket into the middle class is out of reach for too many of our young people, today. And the ones who do manage to scrape through, far too often accumulate debt that makes homeownership or starting a family a pipe dream. Other family budget essentials just keep climbing too. Gas prices are up 27 percent from last year. Child care costs rose for the fifth year in a row—this year a week of infant child care at a daycare center is $211. Mr. Speaker, there are concrete actions that we can take, right here in this chamber, to support American families. We could spend today working on college affordability. Or protecting Americans with pre-existing conditions. Or how to help more young people afford a first home. Or how to help their parents prepare for a secure retirement. We are nearly out of time to get things done in this Congress—we are down to less than 25 legislative days before the election, so if we plan to do anything about the pressing issues facing Americans, this would be the time to step up. But instead of trying to broker solutions or offer any ideas, the Republican leadership has opted to hold a shadow debate. It doesn’t matter how this vote turns out—the outcome will be identical either way. Nothing will change. Nothing will change. That contentment with the status quo may be fine for my Republican colleagues, but it isn’t helping the families I represent. In fact, it pretty much encapsulates their worst opinions of Congress. Listen. If you want to debate a carbon tax, let’s hold some hearings. Let’s find out what it would mean for the economy, for Big Oil, for families in Springfield. Let’s find out what impact it would have on fossil fuel emissions and on economic growth. Let’s think strategically about how it would affect our geopolitics. If you want to have this debate, let’s have this debate. But today’s resolution is toothless, meaningless. The outcome will be nothing, no matter what the final vote is. This is a waste of time that we ought to be devoting to serving the people who sent us here. I yield back. Watch here. ##
07.18.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for holding today’s markup on two bills that will improve our public and private retirement systems. The Social Security Online Tools Innovation Act is intended to help Social Security disability beneficiaries who are interested in trying to go back to work. The bill would direct the Social Security Administration to publish a calculator-tool on its website that would help beneficiaries understand how earnings would affect their Social Security benefit amount and eligibility. The second bill, the Save Community Newspapers Act, would provide pension funding relief for a number of community newspaper plan sponsors. This bill provides these struggling employers with some wiggle room allowing them to contribute less money to their pension plans each year. And that means maintaining jobs and strengthening their businesses while at the same time maintaining their pension plans. I am pleased to support both of these bills today and I thank the Chairman for bringing them up. However, it is imperative that we do much more to address our current retirement crisis than simply acting on these two bills. Today our country is in the midst of a retirement crisis. Nearly half of American private sector employees – roughly 55 million – work for an employer that does not offer a retirement plan. Most of these workers are employed by small businesses, the fastest growing segment of the economy. Too many workers in this nation reach retirement age without the savings they need. We must make saving easier and do more to encourage workers to begin saving for earlier. I have a number of bills that would do just that. My Automatic Retirement Plan Act would provide a savings opportunity at work for approximately 30 million American workers. I’ve also introduced the Retirement Plan Simplification and Enhancement Act, which includes a number of common sense reforms to simplify and enhance our retirement rules. A number of other members on this committee also have retirement bills that would help address the retirement crisis. For example, Ron Kind and Mike Kelly have introduced the RESA bill that would encourage middle class families to save. This bipartisan bill enjoys the support of both industry and AARP. I’d also be remiss if I didn’t highlight the multiemployer pensions, which are in crisis. About 10 million Americans participate in multiemployer plans and about 1.5 million of them are in plans that are quickly running out of money. These are American workers who planned for their retirement. People who year after year chose to contribute to their pensions instead of taking a wage increase. Then after working for 30 plus years, their planned retirements may be taken away from them. And taken away at a time when they no longer have time to prepare for retirement because they’re now in retirement. It is critical that we address this crisis and help these Americans whose retirements are now at risk by no fault of their own. In conclusion, I am pleased that the Chairman has brought up these two bills today. However, this is just a grain of sand in the sea. We need to come together on a bipartisan basis to really address the retirement crisis. And I hope the Chairman will do just that. ###
07.16.2018	Springfield, MA –United States Congressman Richard E. Neal joined Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, city officials, and members of the Springfield Redevelopment Authority on Monday to unveil two new benches at Springfield Union Station. The two benches, which measure 15-1/2 feet long by 5 feet wide, are on long-term loan from Grand Central Terminal in New York City and underwent a $25,000 restoration by John Carlo Woodworking in Westfield. “After taking a fact-finding mission with city officials to Grand Central Terminal, I was thrilled that we were able to come up with a way to get these in our newly restored transportation hub,” said Congressman Neal. “These benches are part of the beginning and the rebirth of our Union Station here in Springfield.” Mayor Sarno said, “We are grateful to Congressman Neal for his efforts in acquiring these benches from New York City’s Grand Central Station. I believe it is important to preserve the history of our Union Station and these benches illustrate the thousands of stories and memories our residents have for this historic station. Now new memories will be made as passengers wait to meet their loved ones or taking off for a new destination. The benches are one more aspect to the craftsmanship and level of detail that was part of the original Union Station.” The new benches are now on display in the grand concourse at Springfield Union Station. ##
07.16.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after President Donald J. Trump made controversial comments about Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential elections at a summit in Helsinki, Finland, with Russian President Vladimir Putin. “Last week, President Trump was highly critical of some of our closest European allies and friends when he questioned the value of NATO at an international summit in Belgium. By any objective standard, NATO has been one of the most successful peacetime military alliances of democratic nations on the globe. It has a long and unparalleled record of defeating Marxism, fascism and totalitarianism in every corner in the world. And for President Trump to chastise the 28 members of the trans-Atlantic partnership that has brought peace and prosperity to the region was regrettable. In Helsinki this morning, the American people witnessed something even more stunning and unprecedented. The President of the United States took the side of a former KGB officer on foreign soil over the best judgement of our intelligence agencies regarding Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election. The evidence of Russia meddling in our elections is clear and overwhelming. Yet President Trump continues to believe an adversary like Vladimir Putin more than America’s national security professionals. I find this deeply troubling,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. ##
07.14.2018	Springfield, MA – Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, Congressman Richard E. Neal, Patrick J. Sullivan, Executive Director of Parks, Building and Recreation Management and the Springfield Park Commission held a ribbon cutting ceremony at Jaime Ulloa Park at 11:30 a.m. this morning. The park, located at the corner of Osgood and Morgan Streets in the North End Neighborhood, recently underwent significant renovations. A community picnic followed the ribbon cutting. Funding for the renovations is made possible by a $250,000.00 grant from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and $250,000.00 from a Community Development Block Grant. The grant funding has provided the City of Springfield the opportunity to initiate the first phase of redevelopment necessary to meet the growing need for high quality recreation areas citywide. A master plan for redevelopment of Jaime Ulloa Park had been created with improvements and the completed construction has included a redesigned park entrance, upgrades to playground and splash pad elements, improvements to park walkways, lighting and landscaping. Jaime Ulloa Park had excess fencing and retaining walls that prevented the full use of the park. The new park designed has improved access and site lines. Phase One, with the assistance of LWCF grant, included the removal of the retaining wall and excess fencing, upgrades to the playground, picnic, gaming areas and overall access to the site from Morgan Street. Mayor Domenic J. Sarno stated, “The City is grateful to the Land and Water Conservation Fund and the Community Development Block Grant for providing the funding for this project and the city is excited to complete phase 1 renovations to Jaime Ulloa Park. The project illustrates the importance of having a master plan ready so when grants do come available we are ready to participate in the application process. The improvements will be a welcome addition to the North End neighborhood.” “I am so pleased to be a part of the ribbon-cutting of this newly rehabilitated park,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “The preservation of green spaces in our cities is so important and the fact that this will continue to be a lasting tribute to my good friend Jaime Ulloa is not only special for the city and the neighborhood, but for his family and friends as well.” “I’m delighted with the reopening of this park and the renovations that have been made, said Senator James T. Welch (D- West Springfield). “Parks add a great deal to our communities, providing residents a communal space to gather and enjoy their city. More importantly this park commemorates a remarkable individual in Jaime Ulloa and through it his memory will be a part of our everyday lives.” "The renovation of Jaime Ulloa Park provides a health, environmental, aesthetic and recreation benefit to the neighborhood thanks to Congressman Neal and Mayor Sarno,” said State Representative Carlos Gonzalez. Brian Santaniello, Park Commission Chairman stated, “This is great news for the park patrons of Jaime Ulloa Park; the park improvements will ensure for quality playground, picnic and gaming areas. By local, state, federal government and the business community working together, we can make great things happen for our City. I would also like to extend a special thank you to our Mayor who continues to find the funding to improve our Park System.” Executive Director Patrick Sullivan stated, “It has been a pleasure to work with the New North Citizens Council, all the neighbors and the Ulloa family in the renovations and rededication of this park. The new design offers a welcoming entry and the new play equipment offers universal access to all youth residing in this neighborhood. We are especially happy to provide a shade shelter for the daily dominos player’s leagues. The culture has been preserved with this renovation and will provide the neighborhood with a great resource for many years to come.” ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican members of the Ways & Means Committee unanimously voted against a measure to protect individuals with pre-existing conditions from discrimination. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, offered the amendment to prevent health care plans from taking away pre-existing condition protections during a committee markup of 11 health-related bills. “Today, Republicans yet again turned their backs on the millions of Americans who have pre-existing conditions,” said Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA). “What happens to that child who was born with severe diabetes? Prior to the current law of the land, she either wouldn’t be able to get insurance or would be charged a higher premium simply because of a health condition that is no fault of her own. Mr. Doggett’s amendment would have simply reaffirmed existing protections for people with pre-existing conditions, something that the vast majority of Americans believe is the right thing to do.” The Affordable Care Act prevents insurance companies from discriminating against the estimated 130 million Americans who have a pre-existing condition. As part of its ongoing effort to undermine the current health care system, the Trump Administration is refusing to defend this portion of the law in federal court, threatening the future of pre-existing condition protections. “The Trump Administration has made clear its determination to remove protections for the millions of Americans who suffer from pre-existing conditions,” said Rep. Doggett. “With their vote, Republicans rejected an opportunity to defend those with pre-existing from having insurance protection denied. If Trump and his enablers in Congress have their way, we will be going to be back to fine-print plans that take away rights and block, deny, or limit people with pre-existing conditions.” Full text of Congressman Doggett’s amendment is available HERE. ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on the heels of the Trump Administration’s announcement that it is preparing to impose tariffs on another $200 billion of imports from China, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and all committee Democrats called on Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) to bring Administration representatives before the full committee to explain its erratic tariff policies and their impact on America’s workers, farmers, ranchers, and families. In their letter to Chairman Brady, the members noted that in response to the Trump Administration’s imposition of tariffs on more than $80 billion of imports, “America’s trading partners have imposed their own tariffs on nearly $60 billion of U.S. exports, with a focus on hitting U.S. agriculture hard.” The members also pointed out that “America’s allies and competitors are also banding together to formally challenge the U.S. tariffs at the World Trade Organization,” and that “last week, Reuters reported that China is actively making overtures to the EU to stand together against the Trump Administration’s trade policies.” “With the proliferation and escalation of tariffs, the U.S. economy and the global economy are on edge,” the members cautioned. “We cannot pretend that this is business as usual. The Administration owes answers to the Members of the Ways and Means Committee and, more importantly, to the American people about its trade policy goals and whether or not they are working.” Full text of the letter is available HERE: 07.11.18 Brady trade letter.pdf 07.11.18 Brady trade letter.pdf ​
07.11.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Chairman, the health and tax related bills we are considering today would not address the health care crisis facing the American Public. In fact, health savings accounts have long been key components of Republican efforts to dismantle the ACA. The provisions we are considering today provide America’s wealthiest another option to stash tax-free money at a cost of $92 billion to tax payers. Most of the legislation today does very little for the average American. Instead, we should be strengthening and protecting already existing health programs like the ACA, Medicare and Medicaid—not slashing them. Consumers are already struggling to afford health care costs – including the cost of prescription drugs – and these bills do nothing to help them. If you cannot afford your monthly prescription, you’re unlikely to have the money to fund an HSA. Actions today would not reverse the ongoing sabotage on our nation’s health care system. The list is astounding—proposed cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP. And rolling back consumer protections, zeroing out the individual mandate and cutting off funds for risk adjustment. All this has led to increased premiums, creates more uncertainty, and discriminates against those with pre-existing conditions. It is disheartening to think of families that have to make terrible health decisions because of recent sabotage efforts. Nearly 44 percent of Americans cannot afford a $400 emergency. How then can Republicans expect them to fund an HSA, or pay for routine, needed care in one of these catastrophic plans. Last week, the Boston Globe reported about a woman who had her leg cut to the bone by a mishap at the train station. But when people came to her aid, she screamed out, “please don’t call an ambulance,” because she could not afford the bill: and she had insurance. One in four cancer patients reports they did not fill a prescription or are taking less medicine than prescribed due to cost. These measures would do nothing for these people. They simply provide greater tax shelters for those with the means to take advantage of them. Instead of ensuring a sustainable future for the ACA, Medicare and Medicaid, Republicans want to cut these programs to pay for their $2.3 trillion tax plan. And today’s bills add close to another $100 billion to the deficit. All this for programs that few Americans have the extra income to use in the first place. I want to be clear: HSAs do not provide a replacement for cost sharing reduction and premium subsidies that help low-and moderate income Americans – the very same subsidies that Republicans have been trying to undermine in the court for the past ten years. What we have before us today will not solve the problems facing average Americans. It leaves them, and their families, with increased health care costs and lower coverage and quality of care. ###
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Richard E. Neal spearheaded a letter with the entire Massachusetts delegation to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) on Wednesday requesting that the agency take immediate action in the initiation of the Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP) to assist those who are still struggling to find housing following Hurricane Maria. “The 2018 hurricane season is already underway,” they wrote, “and the island of Puerto Rico needs support to continue recovery but also build sustainable infrastructure for the future. Initiating the DHAP program will be another tool for the Puerto Rican community for these undertakings.” Massachusetts is home to one of the largest Puerto Rican communities in the United States. The full letter can be found here: Hurricane Maria PR DHAP.pdf Hurricane Maria PR DHAP.pdf ##
07.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Committee on Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard E. Neal was named by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi today to be a conferee to reconcile the final version of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Congressman Neal released the following statement following his appointment. “Today, I was named by Leader Nancy Pelosi to be a conferee to reconcile the final version of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This important assignment will allow me to ensure that provisions that help the First District of Massachusetts are protected. For Westover Air Reserve Base and Barnes Air National Guard Base, it allows them to continue their vital national security missions and remain the substantial economic drivers in the region. For companies throughout western and central Massachusetts, the NDAA helps create and sustain well-paying jobs. I am thrilled to be chosen for this position to ensure the interests of these vital institutions are held in the highest regard.” ##
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON -- With the 2018 hurricane season underway and Puerto Rican families still struggling in the aftermath of Hurricanes Maria and Irma, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business, Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member on the House Committee on Homeland Security, and Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, sent a letter to William Long, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), pressing him on the agency’s refusal to stand up a Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP) that would establish a partnership between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and FEMA to provide temporary housing vouchers for residents in Puerto Rico in need of assistance. In the letter, the lawmakers expressed concerns about the Trump Administration’s response to Puerto Rico compared to other disaster-stricken areas in the continental U.S. and demanded answers from FEMA on how the agency plans to help families recover from these disasters effectively. “[I]f FEMA continues to insist that DHAP is not needed in Puerto Rico, we request that you identify specific policy changes that FEMA will make to address ongoing concerns with the existing options for transitional housing assistance that FEMA is providing,” the lawmakers wrote. “In particular, FEMA must address concerns that families are struggling to regain normalcy and stability in the face of multiple short term extensions of their housing assistance and the burdensome requirements that they need to meet to qualify for those extensions. There are also concerns that families that have chosen to leave Puerto Rico have little help finding rental units in the continental U.S. Whether through DHAP or through changes in existing temporary housing assistance programs, FEMA must address these shortfalls and ensure that it is doing everything possible to help families recover from these disasters effectively.” The full text of the letter is below: June 29, 2018 William B. Long Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency U.S. Department of Homeland Security Dear Administrator Long: Puerto Rican families continue to struggle in the aftermath of Hurricanes Maria and Irma, which devastated the territory nine months ago. The 2018 hurricane season has already started and thousands of Puerto Ricans still do not have power. Despite the “official” count that puts the country’s death toll as a result of Maria at 64, a new Harvard study estimates at least 4,645 deaths can be linked to Maria and its immediate aftermath. The staggering number of deaths is thought to be attributed in part to the slow recovery efforts and the inability of the Federal Government to appropriately prepare for the response efforts the island would need given its vulnerable state prior to the Hurricanes. In the midst of widespread criticisms of the Trump Administration’s response to Puerto Rico, particularly as compared to other disaster-stricken areas in the continental U.S., the Governor of Puerto Rico wrote to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) on December 14, 2017, requesting that FEMA enter into an inter-agency agreement with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to stand up a Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP) that would provide temporary housing vouchers for residents in Puerto Rico in need of assistance. Many stakeholders have also advocated for DHAP, in hopes that it would resolve some of the issues with FEMA’s provision of transitional housing assistance. However, on May 15, 2018 FEMA denied Puerto Rico’s request for DHAP, and we respectfully request that FEMA provide further justification for its denial. In its letter denying Puerto Rico’s request, FEMA questions the timeliness of DHAP, stating that it could take three to six months to implement. But by its own admission, FEMA could have stood up DHAP in Puerto Rico in the time that it took for FEMA to officially respond to Puerto Rico’s request for DHAP (approximately five months). FEMA also cites the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Office of Inspector General’s (OIG) findings that there was insufficient data on the effectiveness of DHAP. However, the lack of sufficient data collection and analysis on DHAP is FEMA’s own failure, and we can never hope to have a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of a partnership with HUD to carry out transitional housing assistance unless FEMA takes steps to stand up another DHAP with adequate data collection mechanisms in place. FEMA further cites “significant administrative costs” despite the findings of the same DHS OIG report that there is insufficient data to evaluate the cost effectiveness of DHAP compared to other forms of transitional housing assistance. FEMA goes on in its letter denying DHAP for Puerto Rico, claiming the program is a “burden on survivors” and that survivors under DHAP would have to pay increasing amounts of rent throughout the assistance period, whereas the Direct Lease program provides survivors with rent-free units for 18 months. There is no reason why FEMA couldn’t design a future DHAP to provide rental assistance that is more similar to the Direct Lease program. FEMA also alleges survivors are not guaranteed further housing assistance from HUD at the conclusion of DHAP assistance, but this is true of all transitional housing assistance provided by FEMA. Further, FEMA claims that DHAP is burdensome for survivors because survivors have to find available rental units on their own before receiving assistance under DHAP. But under previous DHAPs, public housing authorities have assisted survivors find housing units, and there may be individuals and families who prefer to find their own rental unit rather than being limited to hotels, motels, or apartments that FEMA has existing agreements with. In sum, we respectfully request a response from FEMA explaining why an interagency agreement with HUD should not remain a viable option Puerto Rico, or other states and territories in the future. Further, if FEMA continues to insist that DHAP is not needed in Puerto Rico, we request that you identify specific policy changes that FEMA will make to address ongoing concerns with the existing options for transitional housing assistance that FEMA is providing. In particular, FEMA must address concerns that families are struggling to regain normalcy and stability in the face of multiple short term extensions of their housing assistance and the burdensome requirements that they need to meet to qualify for those extensions. There are also concerns that families that have chosen to leave Puerto Rico have little help finding rental units in the continental U.S. Whether through DHAP or through changes in existing temporary housing assistance programs, FEMA must address these shortfalls and ensure that it is doing everything possible to help families recover from these disasters effectively. Please respond to this letter by July 9, 2018. Thank you for your attention to these pressing matters. If you have any questions about this letter, please contact Esther Kahng with Ranking Member Waters’ staff at Esther.Kahng@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Ranking Member House Committee on Financial Services Nydia Velazquez Ranking Member House Small Business Committee Bennie G. Thompson Ranking Member House Committee on Homeland Security Richard Neal Ranking Member House Committee on Ways and Means ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement after the House failed to pass the GOP “compromise” immigration bill, H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. “The Trump Administration and Republicans continue to tear families apart at the border. In the short-term, bipartisan legislation must be crafted and enacted to solve this humanitarian crisis. This bill did not do that. Instead it continues the Administration’s mass deportation agenda. It destroys court-ordered protections for children’s health and safety and removes legal protections that guarantee children access to a judge or lawyer before applying for asylum or being deported. Denying even one person due process endangers all of our rights and erodes our nation’s founding principles. We need to focus on real, comprehensive immigration reform with input from both sides of the aisle.” ##
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s recent call to deny asylum seekers and immigrants their right to due process: “In the earliest days of country’s history, our Founding Fathers had the foresight to include in the Constitution individuals’ right to due process of law to protect against government abuse and overreach. Due process is as American as apple pie. Denying even one person due process endangers all of our rights and erodes our nation’s founding principles. President Trump’s suggestion that immigrants fleeing to our nation should not have their day in court is un-American and simply wrong.” ##
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) report on the long-term budget outlook: “Over and over again, Democrats insisted to Republicans that tax cuts for big corporations and the wealthiest Americans do not pay for themselves. Now, in the CBO’s new report, we see the long-term consequences of the GOP’s fiscally irresponsible tax law: racking up historic debt and laying the groundwork for economic crisis. As the nation’s debt balloons and more and more resources have to be diverted to make interest payments, Republicans will block investments in our future and demand critical programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid go on the chopping block. With their deficit-busting tax bill, Republicans gave away the store right as the nation’s obligations are coming due – benefits for which Americans worked hard their entire lives. This sort of legislative malpractice is a disservice to the American people and sets our nation up for an unnecessarily perilous fiscal future.” ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON –House Committee on Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard E. Neal announced the selection of Kimberley Lee to serve as a member of the Federal Commission on Social Impact Partnerships. Lee is currently the Vice President of Resource Development and Branding at Mental Health Association (MHA), Inc. in Springfield. Over the course of her career, Lee has served in various leadership roles across the nonprofit sector focused on fostering an inclusive and productive community. She has advocated for the populations served and worked to implement innovative solutions delivered through non-profit businesses. Lee has previously worked at the Center for Human Development, Square One, the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, and the United Way of Pioneer Valley. In her current role at MHA, Lee helps to provide a broad range of high quality, community-oriented human services to 400 adolescents, adults, and their families each year. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Mass Communication from Westfield State University. “I am thrilled to appoint Kim Lee to the Commission,” said Neal. “She has spent a considerable amount of time throughout her career advocating for the needs of those who are the most vulnerable in our communities. She will be a great addition to this board.” “The opportunity to serve on the Commission on Social Impact Partnerships is an incredible opportunity, and I am extremely thankful to Congressman Neal for considering me for such a significant initiative,” said Lee. “I am excited to participate in an open and thoughtful process to distribute funding that is based on demonstrated outcomes. Having spent most of my career in the nonprofit sector, including most recently with the Mental Health Association, I am looking forward to contributing my experiences to the success of this new bi-partisan effort to improve lives throughout our great country.” The Commission on Social Impact Partnerships was established by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 and was designed to provide funding for newly proposed public-private partnerships aimed at improving social outcomes. The Commission consists of nine individuals who are nominated by the President and bipartisan congressional leaders. The Commission is in charge of assisting the Secretary of the Treasury with reviewing and recommending social impact partnership proposals. ##
06.22.2018	(As Prepared for Delivery) Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6. It has become all too clear the ongoing opioid epidemic has gripped our nation’s families and communities. It crosses social spectrums and is a public health, safety and economic crisis. In Massachusetts in 2016, there were 2,083 confirmed cases of opioid-related overdose deaths. That is a 26% increase from 2015 and a 54% increase from 2014. In 2017 there was a small decrease, but clearly there is still a strong need to address this devastating trend. This week, the House has considered opioid bills in Committee and on the Floor, but most of these bills do little to expand treatment options or expand care. However, a number of Democratic priorities are included in H.R. 6 that do provide options. For example, it incorporates a bill I introduced that would expand Medicare coverage for Opioid Treatment Programs (OTPs). Currently, Medicare does not cover this sort of treatment. This would give Medicare beneficiaries access to a broad range of treatment options leading to opportunities for lasting recovery. Although many think of opioid use disorders as a problem faced by young people, many may be surprised to learn that it is rapidly growing among Medicare beneficiaries. Medicare Part D spending on opioids far outpaces enrollment, growing 165% from 2006 to 2015. In 13 states, the over 65 population has the highest rate of opioid-related inpatient stays. H.R. 6 also expands coverage of medication assisted treatments and allows nurse practitioners and physician assistants to prescribe or dispense certain opioid treatment drugs. The measure also provides consistent Medicaid coverage for at-risk youth and expands Medicaid coverage for foster youth until age 26. These bills are pieces of a large, complex puzzle. We need to find realistic solutions with long term outcomes. Part of that approach is to protect and strengthen Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA guarantees parity and non-discrimination for people who need substance use disorder and mental health treatment. Thanks to the ACA, millions of previously uninsured adults now have access to health insurance and it also expands Medicaid. Republicans are determined to make severe cuts to Medicaid. Just this week, they unveiled a new Budget Resolution that again proposes draconian cuts to the program that provides the bulk of all treatment for substance use disorders in the United States. Instead of strengthening and ensuring a sustainable future for the ACA and Medicaid, Republicans want to cut them to pay for their $2.3 trillion tax plan. Efforts to sabotage the ACA coupled with premium hikes, slashing preexisting condition protections and increasing drug prices leads to more and more uncertainly. Dismantling current health benefits would damage any progress to curb the opioid crisis. It would also increase health care costs and lower coverage and quality for Americans and their families. I also urge my colleagues to recognize that many families are devastated by addiction to other substances beyond opioids. And the impact of the opioid crisis on the labor participation rate is just as concerning. According to a recent report, the economic burden from opioids was estimated to be $95 billion. Mr. Chairman, the American people are facing a two pronged obstacle—health coverage uncertainty thanks to the ongoing Republican efforts to sabotage the ACA and finding answers to an unprecedented drug epidemic. They are desperate for help and we have the ability to provide it. ##
06.21.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this markup on a number of bipartisan bills covering health, oversight, tax and social security policies. In the health space, we will consider legislation by Mr. Doggett and Mr. Johnson designed to require an action plan and report from the Department of Health and Human Services about single use drug vials. Another bill by Mr. Larson and Mr. Nunes would require CMS to add an ambulatory surgical center (ASC) representative to the Hospital Outpatient Payment Panel, in turn giving ASCs a voice in the changes made to the Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS). Another bill by Mr. Kind and Mr. Kelly directs the HHS Secretary to conduct a study and submit a report on the “Benchmark Cap” in Medicare Advantage organizations. While these bills are positive and I will support them, I want to remind my colleagues this does not make up for ongoing Republican efforts to sabotage the ACA and Medicaid, take away pre-existing condition protections, premium hikes and increasing drug prices. All these efforts are to pay for their $2.3 trillion tax plan and simply leads to more uncertainty in the market place and anxiety for American individuals and families. Also under consideration today is one tax and one IRS-related bill. We will also review two Social Security bills. The first by Mr. Reichert and Ms. DelBene, addresses a problem whereby members of Indian Tribal Councils cannot participate in Social Security. This fixes a gap in the law, and allows Tribal Councils, if they chose to do so, to participate in Social Security and Medicare and earn benefit protection. The second, by Mr. Bishop and Mr. Larson, would establish a single point of contact at the Social Security Administration for people who have been the victim of identity theft, to help them get their problems resolved more quickly. It is similar to legislation we passed doing the same for the IRS. Thank you Mr. Chairman. ###
06.19.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Today, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after the Department of Labor finalized a rule to expand the availability association health plans: “Today’s rule is a continuation of Republicans’ sabotage of our nation’s health care system that forces American families to pay more money for worse insurance. These garbage association health plans provide inadequate coverage, threatening the health and economic security of America’s families. As people buy into these shoddy plans, insurance costs rise across the board for everyone else. “This rule comes on the heels of the Republican tax law, which is causing premiums to skyrocket across the nation, and the Department of Justice’s decision not to defend protections for people with pre-existing conditions. The Trump Administration and Republicans in Congress are deliberately and aggressively causing Americans to pay higher costs for their health coverage. Families can’t afford these unnecessary new expenses, and our nation can’t afford the repercussions of Republicans’ devastating actions to undermine Americans’ access to care.” ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Ranking Committee Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) issued the following statement after the Department of Labor finalized a rule to rollback health coverage protections by expanding association health plans: "The administration’s rule expanding the use of association health plans is yet another attack on Americans’ access to affordable health care. By allowing the sale of junk plans, the rule will remove younger, healthier individuals from insurance pools, which will drive up the cost of coverage for all other Americans. When people in these low-quality health plans unexpectedly need care, they are often surprised by excessive out-of-pocket costs, which can drive families into bankruptcy and force everyone else to absorb the cost of unpaid medical bills. “This is why legal experts, consumer groups, and advocacy groups have consistently warned about the dangers of this rule ─ specifically, about the impact this rule will have on premiums for 2019. “The association health plan rule is just the latest in a series of attempts by the Trump administration and congressional Republicans to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. Whether it’s through questionable lawsuits or executive action, this administration and Republicans in Congress are relentlessly undermining patient protections, increasing uncertainty for insurers, and inflating the cost of coverage for the American people. Democrats will continue to press the administration to faithfully execute the law to ensure that every person has access to quality and affordable health care.” ###
06.18.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal became an Original Co-Sponsor today of the “Keep Families Together Act” that would stop on the Trump administration’s controversial “zero tolerance” immigration policy which has led to thousands of young children being separated from their families along the U.S. - Mexico Border. The Trump Administration has implemented an insidious practice of family separation as a tool to deter asylum seekers from Central America from seeking refuge in the United States. Family separation has been universally condemned by the child welfare community, immigration rights community, and medical professionals such as the American Pediatrics Association. There have been reports of children being physically pulled from the arms of their parents, babies being separated from their mothers, children with disabilities being separated from their parents and most recently, a distraught father separated from his family choosing to take his own life instead of living apart from his children. The parent-child relationship is the most important primal emotional bond and it is at the very core of our humanity. The Trump Administration’s degradation of this relationship is cruel and inhumane The House bill, introduced by Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), would: Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare training. Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months. In a statement released today Neal said, “The American people are justifiably outraged at the heartbreaking scenes they continue to witness on the U.S. – Mexican border. Over Father’s Day weekend, hundreds of parents were forcibly separated from their children and then held in secretive federal detention centers. How many more families are going to be emotionally traumatized before this cruel and inhumane program is halted? President Trump could stop these forcible separations with one phone call to the Department of Homeland Security. But he continues to play politics with the lives of people seeking asylum in the United States. I believe this policy is wrong, does not reflect our country’s basic values, and should end immediately. Families belong together.” The House bill currently has 124 Co-Sponsors. The Senate companion to the “Keep Families Together Act” was introduced by Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA). #30#
06.18.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on the Trump administration’s controversial “zero tolerance” immigration policy which has led to thousands of young children being separated from their families along the U.S. – Mexico border. “The American people are justifiably outraged at the heartbreaking scenes they continue to witness on the U.S. – Mexican border. Over Father’s Day weekend, hundreds of parents were forcibly separated from their children and then held in secretive federal detention centers. How many more young people are going to be emotionally traumatized before this cruel and inhumane program is halted? President Trump could stop these forcible separations with one phone call to the Department of Homeland Security. But he continues to play politics with the lives of people seeking asylum in the United States. I believe this policy is wrong, does not reflect our country’s basic values, and should end immediately. Families belong together,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
06.15.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in response to the controversial “zero tolerance" policy of the Trump administration where children are being separated from their families along the U.S. Mexico border. “The Trump administration’s policy of forcibly separating children from their families along the U.S. Mexico border is contrary to our basic American values and beliefs. And it is made worse when many of these young children end up being held against their will in secretive federal detention centers. The “zero tolerance” crackdown announced by Attorney General Jeff Sessions in May is wrong and should be stopped immediately. Thousands of families are being torn apart and traumatized by this immoral practice. What these people are experiencing on a daily basis is heartbreaking and should be condemned in the strongest possible terms,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration decided to impose a 25 percent import tax on $50 billion of Chinese imports to the United States: “In response to China’s policy of extorting and stealing U.S. intellectual property and technology, the Trump Administration announced substantial and aggressive enforcement actions. Today, we see a significant step forward in the implementation of the Administration’s tariffs plan. I will be watching for the Administration’s completion of its package of enforcement actions. “With respect to these Section 301 tariffs, I recognize they can be an important tool in re-setting the U.S.-China trade and economic dynamic, which has felt like a one-way street for too long. However, I am seriously concerned by the apparent lack of coherence in the Administration’s approach thus far with China. Even the best tools, without a plan for how to use them, are useless.” ###
06.12.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Congressman Richard E. Neal today joined Governor Charlie Baker, Transportation Secretary and CEO Stephanie Pollack, Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, members of the Massachusetts Legislature and local leaders at Union Station in Springfield to announce a Request for Proposals for a consultant team to study the feasibility of east-west passenger rail service, the launch of a pilot for passenger rail service between Greenfield and Springfield, and one-seat service through Springfield to Hartford and New Haven, Connecticut. “Through strong partnerships with federal, state and local officials, we are investing in our existing rail infrastructure, increasing capacity where it is needed, and strengthening the Commonwealth's transportation system,” said Governor Charlie Baker. “We look forward to reviewing the results of this comprehensive study, and continuing to support projects in all regions of the Commonwealth that provide improved travel options to residents and commuters.” “Our administration is proud of the collaborative work we have done to improve the Commonwealth's transportation infrastructure in cities and towns throughout Massachusetts,” said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. “These investments will provide more reliable service across the region, helping travelers better reach the places they need to go.” “I have always believed that improved and enhanced rail service between Springfield and Boston has the potential to be a game changer for our region. That’s why I thank Governor Baker for coming to Union Station today to announce that he is authorizing a comprehensive study on the feasibility of east-west rail. It will build on the study of local rail service funded by the Federal Railroad Administration that former Congressman John Olver and I requested in 2006. With the debut of expanded passenger rail service between New Haven and Springfield later this week, these two significant projects will help grow our economy and greatly improve the quality of life in the region. Investing in our transportation infrastructure will benefit people across the entire Commonwealth of Massachusetts,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA). “I’m excited by the progress announced today, and confident that today’s decision to study east-west passenger rail – paired with expanded service in the Pioneer Valley – will help boost economic vitality and growth not just in Western Massachusetts, but throughout the Commonwealth,” said Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA). The Request for Proposals will enable the Massachusetts Department of Transportation to carry out an extensive study over approximately 18 months, and analyze many aspects and options for potential east-west passenger rail service. In addition to studying potential passenger service from Springfield to Boston, the study will look at potential origins farther west such as Pittsfield and Palmer. This will include engaging with stakeholders and evaluating the potential costs, speed, infrastructure needs and ridership of potential passenger rail service throughout this corridor. The Baker-Polito Administration also announced today that a term sheet has been finalized with the Connecticut Department of Transportation which will enable the start of passenger rail service between Springfield and Greenfield beginning on a pilot basis in spring 2019. Under the agreement, MassDOT will fund the cost and management of the pilot service which will be operated by Amtrak and conclude in fall 2021. The pilot will provide two round trips each day and make stops at stations in Greenfield, Northampton, Holyoke and Springfield. Southbound service will be provided in the morning hours, and northbound in the evenings. This pilot service will leverage the MassDOT-owned Knowledge Corridor, which is currently used by Amtrak’s Vermonter service, and the recently renovated Springfield Union Station. Meanwhile, the new 62-mile Hartford Line begins operating on Saturday, June 16, with trains running approximately every 45 minutes between Springfield and several cities and towns in Connecticut including Windsor Locks, Windsor, Hartford, Berlin, Meriden, Wallingford and New Haven. This expanded service is in addition to the existing Amtrak service throughout this corridor. The Hartford Line will offer free service on June 16 and June 17. “Carrying out a comprehensive study on east-west passenger rail will allow us to have a rigorous, fact-based discussion regarding options for potential service,” said Transportation Secretary Pollack. “Many legislators, local and regional officials and business leaders called for such a study and we are pleased to take a step in advancing this planning for future service.” “MassDOT is pleased to announce initiatives supporting efforts to enhance passenger rail service to communities in Western Massachusetts, with the issuance of an RFP for studying the potential of east-west passenger service and the announcement of the north-south rail pilot,” said MassDOT Rail and Transit Administrator Astrid Glynn. “We look forward to continuing to work with our local and regional partners, such as the Pioneer Valley Planning Commission and Franklin County Council of Governments, on both of these important initiatives.” Mayor Domenic J. Sarno stated, “I deeply appreciate Governor Baker’s continued efforts to not only better connect us through the North-South corridor, but also his efforts to explore better overall ways to connect us to a feasible and sustainable east-west corridor mechanism. He’s been a great friend and partner to me and to Springfield’s needs.” For information about the Hartford Line, please visit www.hartfordline.com. ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) issued the following statement after the Department of Justice told a federal court that it will not defend the key patient protections in Affordable Care Act. The brief, filed yesterday in Texas v United States, breaks with the Department’s longstanding tradition of defending laws enacted by Congress regardless of whether it supports the underlying policies. “The Justice Department’s refusal to defend the Affordable Care Act in federal court is a stunning attack on the rule of law, the stability of our health care system, and Americans’ access to affordable health care. “The administration’s attempt to eliminate protections for the 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions is just the latest – and potentially the most damaging – example of the coordinated effort by congressional Republicans and the Trump administration to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, driving up uninsured rates and out-of-pocket costs for Americans. Unfortunately, that effort will continue to have profound consequences for patients, the health care system, and the American economy. “Our Constitution requires the executive branch to faithfully execute the laws passed by Congress. The brief filed by the Trump administration yesterday represents a shocking break from precedent, and relies on legally dubious, partisan claims to argue against the constitutionality of the current law. “If the Trump administration is successful in arguing against the constitutionality of protecting patients’ access to care, it will have immediate and disastrous effect on our health care system and the American people. But even if the Justice Department’s arguments fail, as they should, the administration’s violation of its duty to faithfully execute our nation’s laws will still raise the cost of health care for most Americans, undermine the economy, and weaken our democracy for years to come.” ##
06.07.2018	Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose H.R. 3, the Trump-GOP rescissions bill, which would cut about $15 billion in appropriated spending. Today’s bill is HR 3. HR 1 was their tax bill and a giveaway to billionaires. HR 2 cut food assistance for working families. And now HR 3 is cutting $7 billion from the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). I guess this reflects the top three Republican priorities. As we’ve seen time and time again, the Republicans are more focused on the needs of the wealthy and well-connected instead of middle-class families. After the Republicans gave away 2.3 trillion dollars in tax cuts to special interests and the wealthiest Americans, they are now going after health care for children of working families and proposing to eliminate more than $7 billion in funding for CHIP. CHIP will cover approximately 9 million children a year in the coming years. Yet the Republicans are proposing to cut this program that provides critical health coverage like hospital visits, prescription drugs, and well child care, all across the nation. Let’s be clear – the Republicans priority – whether it’s this rescissions bill or their tax legislation – is the wealthy and corporations and not the middle-class. While big companies and the most well-off and well-connected reap massive benefits from the Republicans’ tax law, middle-class families are not seeing any changes in their paychecks. And that’s because 83% of the benefit goes directly to those at the very top. And now suddenly – after they jammed through their tax bill – the Republicans are concerned about deficits. Let me give you a little bit of a history lesson. In January 2001, when President Bush took over from President Clinton, CBO estimated the total budget surplus for 2002 to 2011 would be $5.6 trillion. But what actually happened during that period? The federal government ran deficits that totaled $6.1 trillion. What happened when President Clinton left office? In 2001, Republicans cut taxes by $1.3 trillion; in 2003, by $1 trillion; and in 2005, there was the repatriation tax holiday. The Republicans call themselves fiscal conservatives but nothing could be further from the truth. History doesn’t lie and we just saw it again last December with their so-called tax reform bill that added at least $2.3 trillion to the nation’s debt. And let’s also be real, Republicans’ claim that these massive tax cuts will pay for themselves. However, nothing could be further from the truth. Tax cuts don’t pay for themselves, you pay for them. Today their cutting funding for childrens’ health insurance. It begs the question what’s next? Thank you.
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement on the 2018 Medicare Trustees Report and 2018 Social Security Trustees Report: “In alarming news today, Administration policies in President Trump’s first year have reduced the life of the Medicare trust fund by three years. With their repeated efforts to sabotage the nation’s health care system, including their irresponsible tax law, congressional Republicans and President Trump are purposefully running Medicare into the ground. Today’s report projects that without any intervention, Medicare’s expenditures will outpace the economy and monies paid into the program. Instead of working to find solutions that will lower Medicare’s costs and provide Americans with care at a better value, President Trump is simply doing nothing. That’s unacceptable. “Meanwhile, Social Security remains financially stable for the millions of Americans who rely on their earned benefits for economic security. While Republican leaders seek to slash Social Security, I will continue to work on finding solutions to strengthen and preserve the benefits, and defend retirees from cuts. “Both Medicare and Social Security are benefits that Americans pay into and earn over decades of hard work. Congress must act responsibly and strengthen these programs for today’s workers and for generations to come.” ###
06.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and the Workforce and Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), Committee on Ways and Means issued the following statements after the release of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report titled, “Black Lung Benefits Program: Options for Improving Trust Fund Finances.” The Members requested the report to investigate the solvency of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund given the impending sunset of the coal tax rate at the end of this year, which would reduce the rate by 55 percent. “The GAO’s report on the solvency of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund crystalizes the enormous cost of inaction. If we fail to at least extend the current tax rate on coal before it sunsets at the end of this year, the Fund’s debt will spiral out of control and inevitably force taxpayers to cover the cost. If history is any guide, an insurmountable debt could also jeopardize the benefits that disabled miners and their families were promised. In establishing the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund nearly 40 years ago, Congress made clear that the cost of caring for miners should not fall on the shoulders of taxpayers or the miners themselves,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and the Workforce. “At a time when cases of the most severe form of black lung disease are rising at an alarming rate ─ and more miners will need comprehensive and costly care – the administration’s silence on the potential insolvency of the Trust Fund is deeply concerning. Without action from the administration and Congress, coal companies will be allowed to shift their responsibilities to taxpayers and ultimately risk the modest benefits that support disabled miners and their families.” “The Black Lung Disability Trust Fund was established 40 years ago to pay benefits to disabled miners suffering from black lung disease. Today’s Government Accountability Office’s report on the solvency of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, points out that the fund is deeply in the red and that its debt will continue to grow if nothing is done. Insolvency of the trust fund could jeopardize the benefits that disabled miners and their families were promised,” said Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01) “Cutting benefits to these miners and their families is not an option and, as GAO has noted, will not solve the funding challenges facing the trust fund. The administration has done nothing on this issue so Congress must work to ensure that the promises made to these miners and their families are kept.” FACT SHEET: Black Lung Benefits Program: Options for Improving Trust Fund Finances GAO REPORT: Black Lung Benefits Program: Options for Improving Trust Fund Finances ###
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced the imposition of new duties on steel and aluminum imports from Canada, Mexico, and the European Union (EU), to take effect tomorrow: “Today’s tariff announcement is a smoke screen for the Trump Administration’s surrender to China. “While the President gets tough with the EU, Canada, and Mexico by slapping tariffs on their steel and aluminum, it is China that has spent the last two decades pouring its state resources into building up massive capacity for producing steel and aluminum. The result has driven producers in the United States and other market-based economies out of business and American workers out of jobs. Despite this, the Trump Administration has decided to apply tariffs on imports from the market-based economies of Canada, Mexico, and the EU. “And while the President justifies the tariffs on European, Canadian, and Mexican steel and aluminum as national security measures, the Trump Administration is in the process of cutting a deal with China premised on selling out U.S. national security concerns while addressing exactly zero aspects of China’s unfair trade in steel and aluminum. “Recognizing the real source of the threats we face, I stand with our U.S. allies. The Administration’s failure to do the same risks seriously endangering both our economic and national security.” ###
05.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced new investment restrictions and tariffs on China: “Having already undermined U.S. national security interests by agreeing to China’s precondition to trade talks by easing penalties on ZTE, the administration now appears to be saving face by rattling its saber with new deadlines on investment restrictions and tariffs on China. I hope the Trump Administration is not compromising U.S. national security for a chance to convince the Chinese to do what China was planning to do anyway – buy more agricultural and energy products from the United States. In the meantime, the Made in China 2025 initiative continues full speed ahead. Without a coherent strategy, it's hard to see the renewed commitment to threatening tariffs and investment restrictions as anything but more bluster and chaos.” Congressman Neal and fellow Ways & Means Committee Democrats have called for hearings on U.S.-China trade with Trump Administration representatives. ###
05.29.2018	Springfield, MA - Congressman Richard E. Neal today released the following statement after a study recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine reported that at least 4,645 people died in Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. “The report published by the New England Journal of Medicine that at least 4,645 people died in Hurricane Maria instead of the official government count of just 64 is staggering. According to the report, many of the deaths are directly connected to lack of health care available to the community’s most vulnerable - the chronically ill and elderly. It is imperative that the Trump administration ensures federal funds are reaching those in need so that infrastructure that supports utility services critical to health care delivery is secure now and for the future. I will continue to stand with the people of Puerto Rico so they have what they need to recover and rebuild from Hurricane Maria and as they prepare for hurricane season right around the corner.” ##
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement following the House of Representatives vote on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. “Today, I voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. This bill significantly benefits western and central Massachusetts in many concrete ways. For companies like Warren Pumps and General Dynamics that have a local presence to name a few, this bill helps create and sustain well-paying jobs that generates millions of dollars into the local economy. For Barnes Air National Guard Base in Westfield and Westover Air Reserve Base in Chicopee, the NDAA provides a 2.6% pay raise for all military personnel and helps both installations continue their vital national security missions, more effectively respond to natural disasters, and remain economic drivers in the region. In addition, the NDAA urges the Department of Defense (DoD) to expedite and streamline environmental restoration efforts for communities effected by groundwater contaminants surrounding military installations around the country. Also, this bill requires to DoD to establishing a prescription drug monitoring program to help combat opioid drug abuse inside the military. It is for all these reasons that I am confident that this act will be beneficial for our troops and families and for all the people of the First District for years to come.” ##
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) sent President Donald Trump a letter laying out their serious concern and dismay at the negative direction of the ongoing U.S.-China trade discussions. Specifically, the members cite the Trump Administration’s continued consideration of easing penalties imposed on Chinese telecom company ZTE, as well as reports that administration officials are pursuing superficial deals with China that ignore the structurally unfair terms of trade and competition with China. “We have not been alone in our consternation over ZTE,” wrote Neal and Pascrell. “Members of Congress from the House and the Senate – both Democrats and Republicans – have registered their strong protest through letters like ours as well as statements and proposed legislation. And yet, Treasury Secretary Mnuchin continued on Tuesday to insist that your administration will revisit the ZTE penalties as a ‘favor’ to President Xi Jinping of China. In the meantime, press reports about Trump business interests in Indonesia recently securing a Chinese state-owned partner that could be bringing along $500 million in funding are, even when viewed in the best possible light, a very bad look.” Today’s letter comes five days after the members sent a different letter to the President sharply criticizing his proposal to lift penalties against ZTE and calling for the U.S. Trade Representative, the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Commerce to provide a briefing on the U.S.-China trade discussions. Neal and Pascrell reminded President Trump that his own administration’s Section 301 investigation found that “China is relentlessly pursuing its plan to be globally dominant by the year 2025 in fields ranging from artificial intelligence to biomedicine to next generation vehicles to aerospace.” The members warned the President that China “has demonstrated its ability to accomplish its goals effectively and in a short amount of time. China is a very serious contender. Settling for a deal to sell substantially more commodities and natural resources to China, without leveling the terms of competition in high value, cutting-edge sectors, is effectively to roll over and cede the future to China.” Underscoring their serious concern with the direction of the Trump Administration’s discussions with China, Neal and Pascrell urged the President: “don’t sell America out and don’t sell America short. The current trajectory of your administration’s plans risks doing both.” Full text of the letter is available here: Trump Trade letter 5-23-18.pdf Trump Trade letter 5-23-18.pdf
05.23.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Chairman, thank you. Before I begin, I want to commend Subcommittee Ranking Member, Dr. Davis, who has provided so much leadership on this issue – I know he will speak later about these efforts. This bill represents a missed opportunity for our Committee to help struggling parents get good jobs and lift their families into the middle class. A 2015 report by the Manufacturing Institute estimated that two million manufacturing jobs in this country could go unfilled because American workers don’t have the right skills to fill them. Most of the decline in the official labor force participation rate is due to Baby Boomer retirements and young people pursuing education. But part of it is an unusually high number “discouraged workers” – people who want jobs but have given up on finding them. Millions of children are living in poverty because their parents aren’t qualified for good jobs, and for a lack of child care, transportation, and other supports. The Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, or TANF, currently provides little or no support for workforce development that leads to good jobs. The bill before us today would rename TANF to the JOBS program, but it invests zero new dollars in quality workforce development programs to help parents get ahead. Zero new dollars for community college programs to offer mentorship and degrees needed for in-demand jobs. Zero new dollars for career pathway programs that combine education and supports to help people enter professions with a future. Zero new dollars for apprenticeship programs. Together with my Democratic colleagues on the Committee, I have introduced the Improving Access to Good Jobs for Parents Act. This legislation would provide real investment in innovative new approaches to job preparation and collaborations among TANF, workforce development agencies, and other key partners like employers, unions, and community colleges. It would create critical investment in workers, the economy, and poor children for less than one percent of what the tax bill added to our debt to pay for tax breaks for those who don’t need them. I plan to offer my plan as an amendment today, and I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will accept it. In addition to failing to address the jobs gap, the bill before us today does not recognize the challenges parents face when seeking job opportunities. Even with the long-overdue increase in child care funding in the Omnibus Appropriations Act, only one in six eligible children receive federal child care help. The only additional child care funding this bill provides comes from cutting another TANF fund – one that my home state of Massachusetts uses partly for child care assistance. This Congress, we’ve seen a steady stream of efforts to cut off food, housing, and health care to families in need – the basic supports that allow parents to work. Today we can and should revise this bill to offer them real opportunities to upgrade their skills, get good jobs, and make a better life for their children. Let’s stop saying we can afford tax breaks for corporations but we can’t afford real opportunities for American workers. Instead, let’s invest in something people will take: opportunities.
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Ways & Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) introduced legislation that would invest in career pathways for parents who receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) so that more workers can gain the skills they need for good jobs in today’s market and the economy of tomorrow. The Improving Access to Good Jobs for Parents Act (H.R. 5888) uses formula and innovation grants to fund workforce development collaborations and would empower workers who are struggling to gain economic security, many of whom have not finished high school, have little work experience, or have other barriers to employment. “Americans want to work, and they’re eager to learn new skills that will allow them to find good jobs and support their families,” said Rep. Neal. “This legislation makes targeted investments to provide parents with opportunities to receive training that matches local workforce needs. Injecting more highly-trained workers into the economy would help bridge the skills gap and strengthen families. This bill is a win for employers who are looking for qualified workers, and a win for parents and their kids’ futures.” The Improving Access to Good Jobs for Parents Act (H.R. 5888) calls for $900 million of formula grants to invest in collaborations among TANF, workforce development agencies, and other local partners such as community colleges, businesses, labor unions, adult education providers, and career and technical education schools that have agreed to work together to provide the training and support parents need to get good jobs. The bill would require states to provide sufficient research to back up how their plans would achieve results, and it would hold states accountable by requiring reports on their effectiveness at addressing barrier removal, rehabilitation, and job readiness skills needed to enter work or career and technical schools. The bill also calls for $100 million of innovation grants that would be awarded competitively to public or nonprofit organizations to test innovative, collaborative workforce development strategies and evaluate their effectiveness. This investment would simultaneously provide opportunities for workers and help develop a larger set of research-tested tools for developing the workers of the future. The National Skills Coalition, Jobs for the Future (JFF), American Association of Community Colleges (AACC), Association for Career and Technical Education (ACTE), and the Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP) have endorsed the legislation. Ways & Means Committee members Reps. Sandy Levin (D-MI), John Lewis (D-GA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Mike Thompson (D-CA), John Larson (D-CT), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and Judy Chu (D-CA) are co-sponsors of the bill. Full text of the legislation is available HERE. A section-by-section summary of the bill is available HERE.
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after today’s 22nd school shooting of 2018 at Santa Fe High School in Texas. “Today’s massacre at Santa Fe High School in Texas is just another reminder of the necessity for Congress to address common sense gun control. These shootings are becoming all too frequent. Schools should be a safe place for learning, and parents should not have to worry that when they say goodbye to their children in the morning that it’ll be the last time they see them. While I have always been a supporter of the rights of the hunter, the sportsman, and the gun collector to bear arms under the Second Amendment, I believe there are sensible proposals that we should all be able to get behind. And the time for that is now.” ##
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives considered H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, also known as the Farm Bill. Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after voting against the measure. "Today I voted against the ill-considered and short-sighted Farm Bill that Republicans brought to the Floor for a vote. This bill fails the American people – farmers, students, children, veterans, the elderly, and disabled – in many ways. American farmers across the country and here in the First Congressional District are already facing hardships with plummeting prices caused by the Trump Administration’s trade and renewable fuel standard policies. With this bill, farmers see no improvement to the safety net programs that help them address these dire situations. In addition, this bill is a complete missed opportunity when it comes to rural development. It does nothing to benefit the rural economy through investments in broadband, water, wastewater, and other infrastructure needs. These communities have waited long enough for improvements to these needs. Instead, Republicans are making it more complex for job-creating rural development initiatives and various grant programs to be implemented in the places that need it most. When it comes to nutritional programs that over 41 million low-income individuals and families rely on, the Farm Bill will slash funding by over $20 billion. This is simply unacceptable. Nearly two-thirds of recipients of these programs are children, elderly, veterans or disabled individuals. The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts says that in the four western counties of Massachusetts alone, 223,821 people are seeking food assistance. Because of these massive cuts, the Congressional Budget Office warns that across the nation two million Americans will see their benefits lowered or disappear completely, without saving the government any money over the next ten years under this bill. It’ll leave more families hungry and hundreds of thousands of children will lose eligibility for free or reduced-cost school lunches. At a time when one in six children is facing hunger, these cuts are immoral. Without proper nutrition, students lack the energy to learn. This bill essentially robs students of reaching their full potential by taking away nutritional programs they rely on."
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) demanded Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul Ryan (R-WI) clarify what steps he intends for the House of Representatives and the U.S. Congress to take on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) renegotiation during the remainder of this Congress. Recalling that three years ago, Speaker Ryan made the case for the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act (TPA) by arguing that TPA puts Congress in charge of trade negotiations, Neal and Pascrell asked Speaker Ryan to explain what Congress’s next steps are on the NAFTA renegotiation, noting that “NAFTA is almost 25 years old. It fails to reflect the economy of today. And it has failed too many American workers, families, and communities. We cannot afford to sit back and be satisfied with the status quo. We, and the American people, await your answers eagerly.” On May 9 of this year, Speaker Ryan set a May 17 deadline for the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to submit notice of its intent to sign a new NAFTA agreement although, as Neal and Pascrell noted, “TPA does not provide for a hard deadline and many of the TPA timelines set out maximum time frames that provide for a certain amount of flexibility.” Despite Speaker Ryan’s deadline, and the fact that the Speaker adjusted the deadline by another two weeks yesterday, USTR has not submitted any notifications to Congress and, after an intense period of negotiations, the NAFTA negotiations appear to have lost momentum since the Speaker’s remarks last week. Neal and Pascrell wrote: “Noting that in the last 24 hours, you moved the goal posts on your own deadline by a seemingly arbitrary two weeks, at this juncture, we write to ask you, as the author of TPA, what happens now?” After sending the letter to Speaker Ryan, Pascrell added: “I welcome continued negotiations on NAFTA and reject Speaker Ryan’s attempts to impose an arbitrary deadline. We need a good deal, not a quick deal. NAFTA has failed too many American families for the past 25 years to not get this right. I appreciate Ambassador Lighthizer’s attempts to make comprehensive changes to create a new template for U.S. trade that focuses less on multinational corporations and more on boosting jobs and wage opportunities for families and workers. I remain optimistic that we can get there – but we need to continue the work. I plan to continue consultations with USTR until we reach an amenable deal that will stop outsourcing and improve the outlook for workers both here and abroad.” Full text of the letter is available here: Neal and Pascrell Letter to Speaker Ryan re NAFTA Next Steps May 18 2018.pdf Neal and Pascrell Letter to Speaker Ryan re NAFTA Next Steps May 18 2018.pdf ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard E. Neal lauded the committee passage of H.R. 5776, the Medicare and Opioid Safe Treatment (MOST) Act of 2018. The bipartisan bill, co-sponsored by Congressman George Holding (R-NC), focuses on providing access to treatment for Medicare beneficiaries suffering from opioid use disorder. Currently, Medicare does not cover care provided by opioid treatment providers (OTPs), one of the main access points to opioid use disorder treatment in the U.S. This legislation fills that void, ensuring that beneficiaries in need of treatment can access it at a community provider. It also provides grant money for federally qualified health centers and rural health centers to cover the cost of training their providers to provide medication assisted treatment, further expanding access to treatment opportunities across the country. “Opioid use disorders are rapidly growing among Medicare beneficiaries,” said Neal. “Medicare Part D spending on opioids far outpaces enrollment, growing 165% from 2006 to 2015. In 13 states, the highest rate of inpatient admissions related to opioid use was in the over 65 population. People think opioid use disorders are a problem impacting young people, but recent studies clearly show Medicare beneficiaries are also at risk.” Altogether, the Committee marked up seven bipartisan bills, each of which would help to fill these coverage gaps, and improve coordination and access to information related to opioid use and abuse. A full summary of the bill can be viewed here: HR 5776 MOST Act Summary.pdf HR 5776 MOST Act Summary.pdf ##
05.16.2018	Mr. Chairman, I am pleased you are holding this markup today and that it has been carried out in a bipartisan manner. The opioid crisis is not a Democrat or Republican issue—it is a health, safety, family, community, and economic issue. Everyone in this room has a family member or knows someone close to them directly connected to the opioid crisis. In 2016, there were 2,083 confirmed cases of opioid-related overdose deaths in Massachusetts. That is a 26% increase from 2015 and a 54% increase from 2014. In 2017 there was a small decrease, but clearly there is still a strong need to address this devastating trend. Opioid use disorders are rapidly growing among Medicare beneficiaries. Medicare Part D spending on opioids far outpaces enrollment, growing 165% from 2006 to 2015. And this map (*hold up map*) illustrates the highest rate of inpatient admissions related to opioid use in the over 65 population. People think opioid use disorders are a problem impacting young people, but this chart clearly shows Medicare beneficiaries are at risk. That is why the legislation that I introduced with Mr. Holding is so critically important. This bill adds Opioid Treatment Programs (OTPs) as a covered benefit under Medicare. Currently Medicare does not cover this sort of treatment. This would give Medicare beneficiaries access to a range of medication and behavioral treatment options leading to more hope for long-term recovery. The Republicans have gone to great lengths to sabotage one of the best substance use and mental health treatment programs: the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Thanks to the ACA, millions of previously uninsured adults now have access to health insurance. It guarantees parity and non-discrimination for people who need substance use and mental health treatment. The ACA also expands Medicaid which is now the biggest payer for substance use disorder treatment. But instead of strengthening and ensuring a sustainable future for the measure, Republicans are using it pay for their $2.3 trillion tax plan. Like I have said before, this is ultimately about affordability. If these critical benefits on which the middle class rely are taken away, it would be a double whammy. It would not only reverse any progress to curb the opioid crisis but also increase health care costs and lower coverage and quality. That’s simply irresponsible. Today’s markup covers four opioid policy areas: prevention, provider education, beneficiary education, and treatment options. All would make important contributions to the fight. I’m also pleased that we’re considering the Securing the International Mail Against Opioids Act. This legislation stems from the STOP Act, a bill on which I worked closely with Representative Tiberi before his retirement. I commend the work done by Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Pascrell on this bill, which enjoys bipartisan support and would help stop the flow of opioids coming into the United States. Although we are taking steps today to address opioid use disorders, it is also important to remember there are many other families devastated by addiction to other substances like crack, cocaine, heroin, and alcohol. And I want to make sure we do not lose sight of how people of color continue to serve a disproportionate amount of time in prison for drug offenses. African Americans and whites use drugs at similar rates, but the imprisonment rate of African Americans for drug charges is almost 6 times that of whites. Prison is not a treatment system. And the impact of the opioid crisis on the labor participation rate is just as concerning. According to a recent report, the economic burden from opioids was estimated to be $95 billion. I want to take a moment to thank the staff on both sides of the aisle for their weeks of hard work to bring these bills to fruition. This effort exemplifies what has become an all-too-rare occurrence in Congress--bipartisan cooperation. In particular, thanks to House Legislative Counsel, CMS Office of Legislation and the staff at the Congressional Budget Office. Thank you for the significant time you have invested to get us to today. This is a complicated issue and one markup is not going to solve this public health epidemic or its impact on our society but this is a good first step. Mr. Chairman, I encourage you to continue this discussion so we can identify other Medicare policies to further promote access to treatment. Thank you
05.16.2018	Thank you, Chairman Brady, for scheduling this very important hearing this morning. Last year, Republicans had a once-in-a-generation opportunity to work with Democrats to simplify our tax code and create a system that provides opportunities for the American middle class. Instead, Republicans wrote a law that gives 83 percent of the tax savings to the top one percent. Meanwhile, 86 million American families will see their tax bills increase. That’s a great deal for the well-off and well-connected and a bad deal for American families. It’s no surprise the middle class is left with a terrible deal – bad process leads to bad policy. Republicans rushed through their tax bill without the necessary review for a bill of this significance. This is a bill that affects 100% of our economy – it touches every business and every individual, yet there was not a single hearing nor a single witness. Remember, everyone lives an economy! You cannot upend the revenue system of the country overnight without problems. And it’s already clear, there are many problems. The problem that Republicans hope Americans overlook is the law’s devastating impact on your health care. In search of revenue to pay for corporate cuts, the GOP upended the health care system, causing 13 million Americans to lose their coverage. For others, health insurance premiums will spike by at least 10 percent, which translates to about $2,000 of extra costs per year for a family of four. Just last week, we saw insurance companies in Virginia and Maryland asking for enormous price increases, and more companies in states across the country will do the same in the weeks and months to come. These new health expenses will dwarf any tax cuts promised to American families. The majority of workers are not seeing their paychecks grow. Higher health insurance costs – coupled with rising prices for prescription drugs and gas – are straining families’ finances. The Republicans also hope that no attention is paid to the impact their tax plan will have on the nation’s debt. The fiscal irresponsibility of their law is stunning. Over the next ten years, they add at least $2.3 trillion to the nation’s debt to finance corporate tax cuts. Remember, this is borrowed money for a tax cut that goes to the people at the top. And as we saw in 2001 and 2003 – tax cuts don’t pay for themselves, working families pay for them. When the bill comes due, Republicans intend to cut funding for programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Already, we have seen the Trump Administration propose massive cuts to the CHIP program, which ensures our neediest children have access to health coverage, and to Medicare, which provides healthcare to the nation’s seniors. Mr. Chairman, when you began the process of tax reform, Democrats were very clear in reminding you that trickle-down economics simply does not work. If you didn’t believe us then, I hope you’ll believe us now. Since passage of the tax law, we have all watched as record stock buybacks have lined the pockets of the elite, as companies stated publicly that their tax cut is funding the offshoring of American jobs. One American corporation even went as far as admitting openly that your tax law gave them the money to lay off more than 5,000 U.S. workers. That’s 5,000 families whose lives will be upended by your irresponsible law. Democrats have always believed that instead of investing in millionaires and billionaires, we should invest in the American worker. We know a strong America comes from a strong middle class. That would be a better way to do true tax reform. Democrats have a plan to improve health insurance affordability and put more money in families’ wallets. We want to provide young people with high-quality education and ensure that workers have the career training they need to succeed. It’s also important that all Americans are financially secure, especially retirees. We know that when people aren’t worried about how they’re going to afford their next meal, student loan payment, or medical emergency, they can focus on their families and their jobs and contribute more fully to our nation. I thank our witnesses for being here today and I look forward to a productive conversation. ###
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) led a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that expresses concern over the Trump Administration’s extension of sanctions relief for the Russian aluminum producer United Company RUSAL PLC (RUSAL). Today’s letter follows an April 27, 2018 letter from Ways and Means Democrats that initially raised these concerns, asked for a briefing on the decision to ease RUSAL sanctions, and requested written responses to questions on the issue. The Administration’s failure to respond to that letter prompted Democrats to re-submit their requests today. “We remain deeply concerned about this Administration’s apparent lack of commitment to holding Russia accountable for the egregious activities it carries out to undermine democracy in the United States and around the globe,” wrote the members. “The Administration’s indication that it will consider lifting sanctions against RUSAL entirely if its major stakeholder, Oleg Deripaska, pests and relinquishes control of the company raises significant questions given that other sanctioned Russian inpiduals hold stakes in the company.” Reps. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Ron Kind (D-WI), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Sandy Levin (D-MI), Danny Davis (D-IL), and Brian Higgins (D-NY) from the Ways and Means Committee Subcommittee on Trade also signed the letter. “We call on the Administration to address this oversight by scheduling a briefing with our staff immediately and by submitting written responses to our questions as soon as possible. Additionally, we ask that you inform us in writing why the Administration has failed to respond to our requests,” added the members. “We and the American public deserve an explanation for why the Administration is not holding these inpiduals accountable for profiting from the destabilizing actions of a corrupt regime.” Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
05.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the release of President Trump’s prescription drug pricing proposal: “For many years, the issue of prescription drug pricing has been a major cause of concern for myself, my Democratic colleagues on the Ways & Means Committee and the larger Democratic Caucus. We have all heard from constituents who are struggling to afford prescription drug prices while bad actors, like Martin Shkreli and others, prey on desperate patients with unnecessary price hikes. It is encouraging to see the President of the United States use the power of his office to begin a national dialogue on this issue, but far more must be done than what President Trump outlined today. Today’s proposal stops short of providing meaningful solutions that will solve this problem and will not prevent the types of abuses caused by bad actors. I am also disappointed that the president has abandoned a signature campaign promise to demand lower prices through a Medicare expenditure. Democrats on the Ways & Means Committee will continue to look for real solutions that will restrain drug prices for seniors and families, without killing important innovation, including using the power of the federal government to bring down prices for seniors across the country.” ###
05.08.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal made the following statement today after President Donald Trump’s decision to pull the United States out of the Iran Nuclear Agreement. “I am deeply concerned about President Trump’s decision to pull out of the Iran Nuclear Agreement and the implications it may have on our long term national security interests. While many of our friends and allies remain committed to the deal, withdrawal will damage our credibility and isolate the United States from the international community. We should be following the advice of French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel and remain part of the multilateral pact. The United States should be strengthening the agreement to make sure Iran does not pursue its nuclear ambitions, rather than walking away from a diplomatic accord that already has rigorous enforcement and verification protocols. Today’s misguided decision reduces our ability to monitor Iran’s nuclear threat, and will allow the country to resume its illegal weapons program.” ##
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after President Trump sent Congress a rescissions package that cuts $7 billion of funding from the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP): “In order to shower benefits on the well-off and well-connected, President Trump and congressional Republicans want to slash funding for a program that provides health care to children in middle-class and low-income families. Tax cuts don’t pay for themselves, and Republicans’ most recent $2.3 trillion gift to their wealthy donors is no exception. Now, on top of saddling the next generation with crushing debt, the GOP is making it harder for millions of kids to get the health care they need. “Democrats understand that health insurance costs are a significant financial burden for families. We’re looking for ways to make health care more affordable and accessible, not more expensive and less available.” ###
05.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the three House Democratic leaders of the Committees with jurisdiction over health care, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) urging him to allow a vote on legislation that would help improve the affordability and accessibility of health care in the United States. The Undoing Sabotage and Expanding Affordability of Health Insurance Act of 2018, H.R. 5155, helps stabilize the health care markets, makes coverage more affordable, and reverses harmful policies that the Trump administration and congressional Republicans have implemented to undermine the U.S. health care system. “Medical associations, hospital associations, patient and consumer groups, and even insurance companies have expressed serious concerns that President Trump’s and Congressional Republicans’ actions will have serious consequences for the health care of millions of Americans,” wrote the members. “The administration’s actions, coupled with Republican-led legislation, have destabilized the health care markets, resulting in skyrocketing premiums and a significant increase in the number of uninsured Americans.” May 4, 2018 marks one year since Republicans in the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act (AHCA), legislation that would have caused 23 million Americans to lose health insurance, increased out-of-pocket costs for millions of families, punished people with pre-existing conditions, and made massive cuts to Medicaid. The bill failed to pass the Senate. In their letter, Neal, Pallone, and Scott reminded Ryan that, “Just this week, the Commonwealth Fund found that an estimated 4 million people have lost coverage since 2016,” and cited former Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price’s recent comment that we can expect further premium increases as result of the Republican tax law’s repeal of the individual mandate. “We believe we should be working across the aisle to strengthen health insurance and consumer affordability and access,” the members added. “Even congressional Republicans have expressed support for measures to stabilize the market to help it weather the blows from recent actions.” Full text of the letter is available HERE.
05.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) called on Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Acting Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner David Kautter to issue clarifying guidance on the new pass-through deduction in the Internal Revenue Code. Given taxpayers’ confusion regarding their eligibility for the deduction and reports of taxpayers and practitioners using the deduction to aggressively minimize tax liabilities, further direction from the Treasury Department and IRS is necessary for correct implementation of the new tax law. “Without computational and definitional guidance to assist taxpayers in determining whether, and to what extent, they may qualify for the pass-through deduction, it is difficult for them to properly calculate their quarterly estimated tax payments,” wrote Rep. Neal. “Given the possibility that individuals may have considerably different tax liabilities under the new law, the inability to determine the appropriate estimated tax payment could result in liability for additions to tax and underpayment penalties.” The tax law is estimated to cost the federal government $2.3 trillion. In his letter, Ranking Member Neal pointed out that the actual cost of the tax law could surpass estimates if confusion surrounding the code leads to increased attempts to minimize tax liabilities and a higher number of disputes between taxpayers and the IRS. “Republicans rushed the tax bill through Congress with little opportunity for public comment or close scrutiny,” added Rep. Neal. “As a result, taxpayers are left struggling to understand its implications, and opportunities to exploit its ambiguities abound. I urge Treasury and IRS to issue guidance as soon as possible to address these concerns.” Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
04.24.2018	Springfield, MA – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal announced this week that the 2018 entries for the Congressional Art Competition from the First Congressional District are now on display at Center Court in Tower Square. The 61 entries came from high school students across western and central Massachusetts including Agawam High School; Granby Jr. Sr. High School; John Dewey Academy; Longmeadow High School; Palmer High School; Pope Francis High School; Putnam Vocational Technical Academy; St. Mary’s High School; and Wahconah Regional High School. One student is homeschooled. The exhibition will remain through this weekend with the winner being announced next week. The winner’s artwork will be hung in the United States Capitol for one year along with the other winners from across the country. More information can be found here and here. ##
04.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Richard Neal of Massachusetts, Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee, delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. In this week’s address following Tax Day, Neal highlighted the failures of the GOP Tax Scam which gives tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy few on the backs of working families. Below is a full transcript of the address: “As ‘Tax Day’ is now behind us, I’m reminded of the Albert Einstein quote, ‘the hardest thing in the world to understand is the income tax.’ “Americans dread this time of year because of the complications and headaches the tax code causes all of us. I wish I could tell you that filing would be easier moving forward. Unfortunately, that’s not the case. “Last year, Republicans had a once-in-a-generation opportunity to work with Democrats to simplify our tax code and create a system that provides opportunities for America’s middle class. “Instead, Republicans wrote a law that gives 83 percent of the tax savings to the top 1 percent. To put that another way, 4 out of every 5 dollars will go to the very top earners. Meanwhile, 86 million American families will see their tax bills increase. “That’s a great deal for the well-off and the well-connected and a bad deal for American families. “It’s no surprise the middle-class is left with a crummy deal – bad process always leads to bad policy. Republicans rushed through their tax bill without the necessary review for a bill of this significance. “This is a bill that affects 100 percent of our economy – it touches every business and every individual, yet there was not a single hearing nor a single witness. Remember, everyone lives in economy. “Regardless of process, you cannot upend the revenue system of the country overnight without problems. It’s already clear, there are many problems. “One of the problems that Republicans hope that Americans will overlook is the law’s devastating impact on your health care. In search of revenue to pay for corporate cuts, the GOP upended the health care system, causing 13 million Americans to lose their coverage. “For others, health insurance premiums will spike by at least 10 percent, which translates to about $2,000 of extra costs per year for a family of four. “These new health expenses will dwarf any tax cuts promised to you by the Republicans. The majority of Americans are not seeing their paychecks grow. Higher health insurance costs – coupled with rising prices for prescription drugs and gas – are straining family finances. “Finally, the Republican tax plan’s fiscal irresponsibility is stunning. “The law adds at least $2.3 trillion to the nation’s debt to finance corporate tax cuts. Remember, this was borrowed money for a tax cut for the people at the very top. “And as we saw in 2001 and 2003, tax cuts don’t pay for themselves, you pay for them. When the bill comes due, Republicans will intend to cut funding for programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. “The GOP tax scam is a raw deal for working families, for seniors, for all Americans. Democrats believe in A Better Deal: Better Jobs, Better Wages, Better Future for everyone. “A Better Deal means that instead of investing in millionaires and billionaires, we will invest in the American worker. We know a strong America comes from a strong middle class. That would be a better way to do tax reform. “The American people deserve a tax code founded on fairness. Our tax system should reward hardworking, middle-class families, small businesses, and innovators. “Democrats’ Better Deal means a plan to improve health insurance affordability and put more money in families’ wallets. “We want to provide young people with a high-quality education and ensure that workers have the career training they need to succeed. “It’s also important that all Americans are financially secure, especially retirees. “We know that when people aren’t worried about how they’re going to afford their next meal, student loan payments, or medical emergencies, they can focus on their families and their jobs and contribute more fully to our nation. “Republicans are leaving the middle class behind and cutting the very programs that support people’s well-being. “Democrats are fighting for a future in which all Americans, not just those at the top, have an honest shot at a good life.” # # #
04.18.2018	(As prepared for delivery) In 2016, Central States applied to the Treasury Department to cut retiree benefits giving us a glimpse into what insolvency for a large national pension plan would looks like. A retiree from my home state, Massachusetts, barely escaped those devastating benefit cuts. He worked as a car hauler for almost 30 years. Then, years into his retirement, he received a notice from his plan telling him that his benefit could be cut by more than 50 percent. Fortunately, the pension plan’s benefit cuts application was denied, but the plan is still troubled and this retired Massachusetts couple’s financial security remains at risk. I introduced legislation to address the multiemployer crisis for retirees and workers just like Norman Proulx. And while we are focused today more on understanding the multiemployer funding problem than on solutions, I think talking about solutions may help us better understand the issue. Mr. Goldman, last year, you and other members of the American Academy of Actuaries, provided a bi-partisan briefing entitled Multiemployer Pension Plans: Potential Paths Forward. In your materials then you mentioned that a loan program could help solve the multiemployer funding crisis by allowing plans to: borrow money at a low interest rate and invest the proceeds in the plan which would, in your words, “provide a longer timeframe for employers to pay the costs” and “provide leverage on plan investment returns relative to the borrowing rate.” As you know, my colleague Senator Brown and I introduced legislation that, if enacted, would create a loan program. Mr. Goldman, it has been a year since you previously spoke about loan programs, how has the landscape for multiemployer plans changed in that time frame? Mr. Goldman, I proposed a solution that will work in recognition that we must act now. In your expert opinions, what will be the economic impact to retirees and at large, if we do not act now?
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) led a letter to Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) from all 16 Democrats on the committee, calling for a hearing with the Trump Administration on the NAFTA renegotiation. Citing reports that the agreement’s renegotiation could conclude in the coming weeks, the Democrats requested an opportunity to examine the Administration’s progress and conduct the necessary oversight of the Administration’s efforts. “More than 25 years ago, during the original NAFTA negotiations, this Committee brought forward United States Trade Representatives, Secretaries of Labor, and Administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency to testify multiple times,” wrote the members. “Yet the Ways and Means Committee has not, to date, convened a single hearing dedicated to the renegotiation of NAFTA with Administration witnesses.” The Trump Administration formally initiated the NAFTA renegotiation in August 2017 and is seeking its imminent conclusion. In February, committee Democrats led by Rep. Bill Pascrell Jr., Ranking Member of the Trade Subcommittee, sent a letter to Trade Subcommittee Chairman Reichert requesting a NAFTA renegotiation hearing with the Trump Administration. This followed a private letter that Rep. Pascrell sent to Trade Subcommittee Chairman Reichert requesting a hearing on NAFTA in October 2017. “It is high time for the Committee to exercise its Congressional duties as the Committee of jurisdiction over reciprocal trade agreements,” the members added. “As members of the Committee on Ways and Means, we urge you to convene a hearing with the Administration on the NAFTA renegotiation as soon as possible.” Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) sent a letter to Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), requesting he convene a House Advisory Group on Negotiations (HAGON) meeting on NAFTA. Given reports that the agreement’s renegotiation could conclude in the coming weeks, Neal and Pascrell ask that U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer attend the meeting and provide HAGON members with an update. “During trade negotiations, TPA requires that the Administration ‘consult closely and on a timely basis with’ the HAGON and keep the HAGON ‘fully apprised of the negotiations,’” wrote the members. “TPA also requires that the Administration consult with the HAGON before it enters into a trade agreement.” The Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (TPA) established the HAGON, and the group’s membership comprises the chairman and ranking member (or their designees) of the Committees in the House of Representatives that have, under House Rules, jurisdiction over provisions of law affected by trade agreements. “The HAGON convened twice in 2017 to consult with the Administration prior to the official launch of the NAFTA renegotiation: once on March 21 to meet with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and again on May 17 with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer,” the members added. “The HAGON has not met since then to consult with the Administration on the NAFTA renegotiation or any other trade agreement negotiation being conducted by the Administration.” Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement on reports of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) technical problems: “We understand that the IRS is experiencing technical difficulties today with the transmission of direct tax return payments. Tax Day is already a stressful time for millions of Americans, even when everything goes right. Given this news, I hope that the IRS will make accommodations so that every taxpayer attempting to file today has a fair shot to do so without penalty.” ###
04.17.2018	Mr. Chairman, thank you for inviting the Secretary of Labor here to discuss this important issue. We agree that there’s a problem here. Good jobs are going unfilled, and millions of Americans need jobs or need to move up to better jobs. A 2015 report by the Manufacturing Institute estimated that over the next decade, two million manufacturing jobs in this country could go unfilled due to the skills gap. The New England Council reported similar results. At a time when we are trying to compete in the global economy and families across the country are trying to reach and stay in the middle class, we can’t afford that. Here’s where we don’t agree: President Trump’s recent executive order seems premised on the belief that we have a jobs gap because people just don’t want jobs. And his solution is to cut off benefits to motivate them to work—like food, housing, health care, or benefits they use to buy school supplies or put gas in the car. I believe that if you offer people real opportunities, they take them. If given a choice between a good job and something else, people take the good jobs, because they want a better life for themselves and their families. So if people aren’t filling those job openings, it’s not because they don’t want to. It’s because they can’t. Our jobs gap is really a skills gap. Many workers just don’t have the right skills for some of the best jobs our economy is currently producing. If we help Americans upgrade their skills, those open jobs will become real opportunities, and people will take them. We know how to help people upgrade their skills. Registered apprenticeships, community colleges, career pathways programs that combine work, training, and supports like child care – all of those things help people learn skills and lead to good jobs with a future. But last year, the President proposed cutting our main employment and training services programs by 40 percent. And this year, even after the bipartisan budget act made far more money available, all the Administration did was agree to continue job training funding at a level that is barely half of what Congress authorized on a bipartisan basis. They proposed cutting Trade Adjustment Assistance funding to help trade-displaced workers go to community college and learn new skills. And we read in the newspaper that the Administration is quietly working a plan to cut the worker support funding Congress just provided in the Omnibus appropriations bill. Our Committee doesn’t have jurisdiction over the main job training programs, but we do oversee the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program, which is supposed to help move parents from welfare to work and get families out of poverty. In the past, Republicans on this Committee have strongly opposed commonsense efforts to help parents receiving TANF participate in education and training that leads to good jobs. I hope they will reconsider that position. Our recent bipartisan work at the Committee to authorize and fund reemployment services shows how much we can accomplish when agree to invest in workers. At the same time as we invest in worker skills, we should be asking employers what they are doing about the jobs gap. Basic economics says that when employers don’t get the quality of job applicants they are looking for, the answer is to raise wages. So why are wages still stagnant, even after employers got a windfall in the Republican tax bill? According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average American saw an increase of just $6.21 a week during the three months after the tax bill, far below the $4,000 a year Congressional Republicans and President Trump promised, and we’ve already seen some corporations give their windfall to Wall Street. There’s a real problem here, and there’s a real solution. Instead of adding $2.3 trillion to our debt to provide the wealthy and big corporations with tax cuts, and then vilifying American workers who are trying to get ahead, we should fight to raise wages and invest in the skills that lead to opportunity. ###
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) requested Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) immediately hold hearings on proposals to fund the repair and improvement of the United States’ crumbling infrastructure. In their letter to the Chairman, the members cite a report in the Wall Street Journal on Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant’s emergency declaration this week to close more than 100 deficient bridges in the state. “Structurally deficient bridges are not unique to Mississippi; there are more than 50,000 structurally deficient bridges in the United States carrying 188 million trips every day,” wrote the members. “The Ways and Means Committee has an obligation to do our part to advance legislation to ensure that our infrastructure needs are adequately met.“ Despite the extent and severity of the problem, the Ways and Means Committee has only held one hearing on infrastructure funding and financing in more than seven years. Neal and Blumenauer note that in that time, “the United States’ global competitiveness on infrastructure has declined and the costs of maintaining a good state of repair have grown.” Full text of the members’ letter is available here. ###
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON – House and Senate Democratic Committee health leaders called on the Trump administration to withdraw a proposed rule that would encourage the sale of junk health plans that will undermine consumer protections, sabotage the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Marketplaces, and expose consumers to great financial risk. The proposed rule, published on February 21, 2018, would extend the allowable duration of short-term, limited-duration insurance (STLDI) plans from three months to up to 12 months. House Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), House Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), House Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Senate HELP Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), and Senate Finance Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) requested the withdrawal of the rule in a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. “This proposed rule would expand the availability of discriminatory, deceptive, and insufficient plans– like those that existed before the Affordable Care Act (ACA) – that deceive consumers into thinking they are covered for major medical expenses, and is yet another attempt to sabotage the health care markets on which millions rely for coverage,” the five Democrats wrote to Azar, Acosta, and Mnuchin. “Expanding STLDI would take us back to the days when consumers could be denied coverage or charged more based on age, gender, or health status and when they had no guarantee of coverage for basic benefits, such as maternity care, mental health and substance use disorder, prescription drugs coverage, and preventive services. These junk policies fail to cover needed benefits, particularly for people with preexisting conditions,” the Members continued in the letter. Democrats are concerned that expanding junk insurance would undermine the individual insurance market, cause premiums to skyrocket for working families who need comprehensive coverage, leave consumers on the hook for paying exorbitant amounts in deductibles and out-of-pocket costs, and allow insurers to inflate profits by denying access to basic benefits guaranteed under Federal law, such as preventive care, prescription drugs, mental health and substance use disorder treatment, and maternity care. A study by the Urban Institute found that the rule, taken together with the repeal of the individual mandate and other policy changes, will result in 6.4 million more uninsured compared to prior law, and will cause an additional 18 percent on average premium rise – disproportionally affecting middle-class Americans – in states that do not prohibit or limit STLDI. “We are dismayed that the administration is taking this step in the wrong direction. Instead of finalizing this proposed rule, the Departments should apply all Federal consumer protections to short-term plans and make them truly short-term in nature: limiting their duration so they fill in gaps, without becoming a poor substitute for quality, comprehensive coverage,” the Members continued. “We urge the Departments to protect access to affordable health coverage for families and reject this ill-advised proposed rule.” To read the full letter, click here. ###
04.12.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in recognition of Holocaust Remembrance Day which is being observed this year on Thursday, April 12. “Every year, the people of the United States of America take time to remember the 6 million Jewish men, women and children who were systematically persecuted and killed by the Nazi’s during World War II. The annual observance, known as Holocaust Remembrance Day, was established by the U.S. Congress, and is held on the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising of 1943, an act of Jewish resistance in Poland against forced deportation to the Nazi concentration camp at Treblinka. In Hebrew, Holocaust Remembrance Day is called Yom Hashoah. During this solemn occasion, let us honor the innocent victims of the Holocaust, teach future generations about the dangers of genocide and anti-Semitism, and pledge to never forget what happened in Europe 80 years ago. As Nobel Prize Winner and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel reminded us, 'To remain silent and indifferent is the greatest sin of all.'” Last month, I was pleased to sign a bipartisan letter in Congress requesting $5 million of federal assistance for the Holocaust Survivors Assistance Program. This important initiative helps the brave survivors live their golden years in dignity and delivers the assistance and relief they need. There are approximately 100,000 Holocaust survivors living in the United States today, 30,000 live in poverty, and many are over the age of 85. Nearly 3,400 currently reside in Massachusetts. In Israel, there are 200,000 Holocaust survivors and one in four live in poverty. After living through one of the most painful chapters in recent memory, I believe we have a responsibility to support the surviving men and women of the Holocaust and their families. This program, which was created in 2015, provides services which helps prevent hunger, isolation, eviction and trauma. This critical care is a reflection of our basic American values and it is the right thing to do. Here in western and central Massachusetts, we have several institutions that are committed to informing others about the enormity of the Holocaust. In 2013, the Springfield Museums developed an innovative program called “Us & Them: Discrimination during the Holocaust and Today.” Since it was introduced five years ago, “Us & Them” has been taught nearly 250 times to more than 5,000 students in the Pioneer Valley and Connecticut. The highly successful program gives local youth a perspective of the Holocaust through the lens of survivors who settled in Greater Springfield. In Amherst, the University of Massachusetts is home to the Institute for Holocaust, Genocide and Memory Studies which hosts public lectures, conferences, screenings, classes and permanent displays. It opened in 2011 to host “A Reason to Remember: Roth, Germany 1933-42” a teaching exhibition on the Holocaust donated to UMASS by the Jewish Federation of Western Massachusetts. Both organizations comprehensively teach the lessons of the Holocaust and remind us of the extraordinary resilience of the Jewish people. As we come together to mourn those lost in the Shoah, I recall the words of Anne Frank who said, “Where there is hope, there is life. It fills us with fresh courage and makes us strong again.” On this Day of Remembrance, let’s rededicate ourselves to the elimination of genocide across the globe in a shared effort to prevent the unthinkable from ever happening again. ##
04.12.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Thank you, Chairman Brady. Today’s hearing is an important opportunity to discuss the tariffs that the Administration has started imposing recently as a result of its Section 232 investigations and the tariffs that the Administration has announced that it will impose as part of the Section 301 investigation. In discussing the impact of these tariffs on the U.S. economy and jobs, it is obviously important for us to hear from our stakeholders about the processes that the Administration has established for finalizing and implementing the tariffs to ensure that they are fair, transparent, and effective. It seems just as obvious to me that in discussing these tariffs, we also need to talk about what these tariffs are intended to accomplish – and whether we think the tariffs will be successful at accomplishing their intended goals. It’s important to keep in mind that the reasons for both the Section 232 and Section 301 investigations that are leading to this discussion about tariffs, are China’s unfair trade practices that undercut American workers and businesses. The Section 232 investigations determined that global steel and aluminum imports are threatening U.S. national security. Our producers and workers in these two industries have been seriously hurt by the global overcapacity crisis. It’s no secret that China has been the leading driver of this crisis. The Chinese government owns many of the steel firms in China and has provided massive government subsidies to many of the firms that it doesn’t outright own. As a result, China has started producing steel and aluminum at a pace that is simply not based on economics or fair competition. China now produces about half of the world’s entire supply of steel and singlehandedly produces as much steel as the entire world did in 2000. During that same time frame, the U.S. share of global production has been cut in half. China’s aggressive state-sponsored economic intervention goes beyond just the steel and aluminum sectors. As USTR’s Section 301 investigation report has documented, China’s government has used its economic and political leverage over a sustained period of time to extort, force, or outright steal intellectual property and technology from American innovators. I’ve heard the stories from individual inventors, small businesses, our largest multinational corporations, and our intelligence community about the harmful impact that these IP-related policies have had on the U.S. economy and on our national security. Now we are in a situation where the Administration has decided to respond to both of these problems, at least in part, through tariffs. In the case of the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs, the logic is pretty direct. The tariffs could, if implemented and designed thoughtfully, bring about a recovery of U.S. steel and aluminum production. In the case of the Section 301 proposed tariffs, the logic is less direct. It seems that for the Administration, the tariffs are intended to be used as leverage to bring about changes in China’s practices or to re-calibrate the U.S.-China trading relationship. In both cases, the tariffs will bring disruption to the U.S. economy. The tariffs will raise costs for some, disrupt supply chains, and they are also provoking threats of retaliation and real retaliation from countries like China. The key policy question that we are grappling with now is whether the Administration has a plan to use these tariffs effectively. It seems to me that after today’s hearing, we should seriously consider holding another hearing on the Administration’s China trade strategy. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today and I thank them for joining us to share their perspectives, concerns, and recommendations. ###
04.11.2018	(Remarks as prepared) Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for scheduling this markup on important, bipartisan legislation on various topics within the jurisdiction of our committee. You and your staff have worked very collaboratively with us in putting together these bills and we appreciate your bipartisanship. This markup is a good example that we can work together on a bipartisan basis to develop good policy. In fact, I’m a firm believer that we do some of our best work when we come together. This morning we will start with a number of bills, which would, among other things, strengthen and modernize the IRS, improve taxpayer services and protect Americans from identity theft. These bills are sponsored by a number of members from our committee. But I’d particularly like to applaud the leadership of our Oversight Chair and Ranking Member, Lynn Jenkins and John Lewis, who are the architects of this IRS redesign package. There are many important reforms in all nine of the IRS redesign bills we’re acting on today but I’m particularly pleased with the many provisions that would help low and moderate-income taxpayers. For example, an important reform we’ll be voting on today is codify the existing Free File program, under which the IRS partners with the tax preparation community to offer free online tax filing to people whose incomes fall in the bottom 70 percent. I’ve been a long time champion of the Free File program along with my colleague, Ron Kind and others, and I’m pleased to see it in today’s package. Another important reform is codifying the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program, under which the IRS partners with nonprofit and community groups to offer income tax assistance to people with low incomes, limited English skills, or other barriers to tax compliance. I look forward to working with my colleagues as the Taxpayer First Act moves to the floor. And I encourage my colleagues to support all of these important IRS redesign bills. We’ll then move on to the Moving Americans Privacy Protection Act, which is common sense legislation sponsored by Representatives Bill Pascrell and Jeff Denham. This bill would strengthen the system used by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to protect the personally identifiable information of individuals who are moving internationally. I’d like to applaud the leadership of Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Pascrell on this issue and I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. We’ll conclude today with two bipartisan bills relating to identity theft and the misuse of Social Security numbers. The Social Security Child Protection Act, introduced jointly by Representatives Lloyd Doggett and Kenny Marchant, would protect children in cases where their Social Security card is stolen from the mail. Stolen SSNs can be used to commit identity fraud - and such fraud can become quite extensive before the child's family even becomes aware of the problem. Under the bill, SSA would issue a child a new SSN if their card is stolen from the mail. The other bill before this committee, the Protecting Children from Identity Theft Act, is intended to address a growing form of identity fraud – that involving so-called "synthetic" identity theft. The legislation would allow financial services companies, if they have consent from their customer, to verify the customer's name and SSN with SSA, in order to help prevent identity theft. I am pleased that we were able to work on a bipartisan basis to strengthen the bill in two key ways. First, we included provisions to ensure that the verification system would be secure and not subject to misuse. And second, we included provisions to make sure the users of the verification system would pay the full cost of it, and not detract from SSA's ability to fulfill its primary mission of running the Social Security program. I urge my colleagues to also support both of these important Social Security related bills. I look forward to a productive day. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
04.10.2018	Easthampton, MA —Citizens’ Housing and Planning Association (CHAPA), the leading statewide housing policy organization in Massachusetts, today hosted a roundtable discussion on affordable housing with Congressman Richard Neal, Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash, other state and local officials, and Western Mass housing advocates. During the roundtable conversation at the Treehouse at Easthampton Meadow apartment community, Congressman Neal, Secretary Ash, and other participants discussed the federal Housing Credit, also known as the Low Income Housing Tax Credit, the impact of the recently-passed 2018 federal spending bill on housing programs, and the specific housing challenges in Berkshire, Franklin, Hampshire, Hampden, and Worcester Counties. “I’ve been a long time champion of tax incentives for economic development and affordable housing because of the amazing results we’ve seen here in Massachusetts in terms of job creation and transformation of neighborhoods,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Since the credit was first enacted the Housing Credit has provided critical financing for the development or preservation of over 48,000 affordable homes across Massachusetts – almost 10,000 in my district alone. Affordable housing had a big win in the Omnibus spending bill a couple of weeks ago and I am proud to have been the lead Democratic sponsor of the Housing Credit legislation that was enacted. The Housing Credit program has a strong track record preserving thousands of affordable rental homes each year through public-private partnerships and I’m very pleased that we were able to increase allocations for this important program.” “Thank you, Congressman Neal, for your consistent leadership on the critical issue of affordable housing and your effort to protect and expand the Low Income Housing Tax Credit Program in the Omnibus legislation,” said Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash. “The Baker-Polito Administration is committed to increasing the production of affordable housing in every region of the Commonwealth. We look forward to continuing our work together and ensuring ongoing support for this vital tool, which provides stability for families and strengthens communities.” “Over the last decade, Easthampton has specifically benefited from Congressman Neal’s steadfast championing of affordable housing in the creation of apartment homes here at Easthampton Meadows, as well as Parsons Village and Cottage Square Station,” said Easthampton Mayor Nicole LaChapelle. “His understanding of the vital connection between housing and smart economic growth is clearly evident in recently passed 2018 omnibus bill passed which ensures expanded support for Easthampton’s families and local job creation.” “As a dedicated advocate for housing programs and the Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Congressman Neal was instrumental in securing an increase in the Low Income Housing Tax Credit and increases to numerous critical housing programs in the 2018 federal spending bill,” said Rachel Heller, CEO of the Citizens’ Housing and Planning Association. “It was great to spend time with him today discussing the critical housing needs of communities in Western and Central Massachusetts.” "On behalf of Beacon Communities, I want to thank Congressman Neal for his leadership role in passing legislation that increases the Low Income Housing Tax Credit and also provides permanent authorization on income averaging in LIHTC developments," said Pamela Goodman, CEO of Beacon Communities, which developed Treehouse at Easthampton Meadow. "Treehouse is a perfect example of the breadth of what can be created when people work together and when critical financial resources are available. "We thank Congressman Neal as well as our other elected officials for recognizing that stable, affordable housing is the platform for healthy families and communities, and for taking action." ### Citizens' Housing and Planning Association (CHAPA) is the leading statewide housing policy and research organization in Massachusetts. Established in 1967, CHAPA represents all interests in the housing field, including non-profit and for-profit developers, advocates, homeowners, tenants, lenders, property managers, government officials, and others.
03.29.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today following the Trump administration’s decision to include a citizenship question on the 2020 Census form: “I believe every American should have genuine concerns about the Trump administration’s controversial decision to include a citizenship question on the 2020 census. It has always been in the best interest of our nation to protect the integrity of the census and make sure the decennial survey is fair, accurate and non-partisan. That was the purpose of the Enumeration Clause of the U.S. Constitution. To determine the number of people living in the United States, both citizens and non-citizens alike, every ten years. Since its inception in 1787, our population based-representation in Congress has depended on the precision of its count. But the Commerce Department’s ill-advised effort to add a question on citizenship may result in less people participating in the survey, which would have an adverse effect on states like Massachusetts in the next decade. If there is undercount, we could potentially lose congressional representation, electoral college votes and billions of dollars in federal funding for critical programs like Head Start, Medicare and infrastructure. The statistics also help American businesses determine where to locate their distribution centers. As we prepare for the 2020 survey, we must encourage our residents to cooperate with the Census Bureau, and assure respondents that the personal information obtained will not be used against them or their families. I believe the citizenship question is unconstitutional, will result in an inaccurate census count, and is contrary to our basic American values. I oppose this plan in the strongest possible terms,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
03.29.2018	Southbridge, MA – Community leaders and patients gathered today at Family Health Center of Worcester, Inc.’s satellite health center at 32 Orchard Street in Southbridge, MA for a ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the expansion and grand re‐opening of Family Health Center – Southbridge’s Family Dental Practice. The Federally Qualified Community Health Center first opened medical and dental services in Southbridge in March of 2014 to provide access to care for low‐income families and individuals. The celebration today marked the second expansion of services in Southbridge in response to growing community demand since opening. “Congratulations to the team at Family Health Center of Worcester as they celebrate the expansion and reopening of their facility in Southbridge today,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “These community health centers are vital across the state and our country as they provide quality care in rural areas. They are a proven, cost effective solution to America’s health care access challenges. Based on the growth of this facility, it is clear to see that these programs work. I am proud to be a longtime supporter of these initiatives.” Congressman Neal cut the red ribbon to re‐open the renovated facility, along with Executive Director of the United Way of Southbridge, Sturbridge, and Charlton Mary O’Coin, President and CEO of Family Health Center Frances M. Anthes, Dental Director Dr. Martha Sullivan, and the entire dental team. Family Health Center – Southbridge’s Family Dental Practice offers comprehensive, high‐quality oral health care for patients of all ages, regardless of patients’ ability to pay. During the past year 1,053 patients received dental care at the site. “Family Health Center – Southbridge’s Family Dental Practice is meeting the community's need for access to dental care,” said Frances M. Anthes, President and CEO at Family Health Center of Worcester, Inc. “Many of our patients in Southbridge had significant dental issues that required immediate attention. We work closely with our patients to improve their oral health which contributes to their overall physical wellbeing. This complements the medical care that we provide for our patients across the street at 29 Orchard Street.” Family Health Center ‐ Southbridge Family Dental Practice, Family Health Center offers Family Medicine at a practice site across the street at 29 Orchard Street in Southbridge. Anthes added that many community partners have supported the health center during the past four years, making this expansion possible. In total, more than 2,200 local residents rely on Family Health Center ‐ Southbridge each year for medical and dental services. The health center receives federal, state and local funding to deliver care for all residents regardless of insurance or ability to pay. Family Health Center – Southbridge is operated by Family Health Center of Worcester, Inc. whose mission is to improve the health and well‐being of all residents in the Greater Worcester area, especially culturally diverse populations, by providing access to affordable, high quality, integrated, comprehensive, and respectful primary health care and social services, regardless of patients’ ability to pay. In Massachusetts, 50 community health centers with more than 300 locations provide access to high quality health care for 988,000 state residents. For more information about Family Health Center – Southbridge, please visit: www.fhcw.org/southbridge. ###
03.26.2018	Washington, DC – During a ceremony in Washington earlier this month hosted by Preservation Action, Historic Tax Credit Coalition, and National Trust for Historic Preservation, Congressman Richard E. Neal received the “Champions of the Historic Tax Credit” Award. As Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee, Congressman Neal led the charge in opposing the elimination of this important tax credit during deliberation on H.R. 1, the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.” “Many communities in my district have benefited greatly from the use of this historic tax credit,” said Congressman Neal. “From Springfield’s Union Station to Pittsfield’s Colonial Theatre and communities in between, the historic tax credit has proven to work. It has been a transformative investment tool that has brought brownstones back to life, revitalized communities, and helped preserve buildings that may have seen the wrecking ball.” “We applaud Congressman Neal for his steadfast support of the historic tax credit,” said Stephanie Meeks, president and CEO of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. “This federal investment in economic revitalization has proven time and again that bringing our historic properties back to life is good public policy. Communities across the nation are thriving because Congressman Neal and historic preservation advocates stood up for this vital program.” “As a sponsor of the ‘Champions of the Historic Tax Credit’ (HTC) event, it is a privilege for the Historic Tax Credit Coalition to honor Rep. Neal for continually vocalizing support for the HTC and other community development incentives as the House deliberated on tax reform,” said Merrill Hoopengardner, Chair of the Historic Tax Credit Coalition and President of the National Trust Community Investment Corporation. “A longtime supporter of the HTC, Rep. Neal has a strong understanding of how these incentives work and where they have been used in western Massachusetts and around the country. We are grateful for his sustained advocacy on the HTC’s behalf.” The Historic Tax Credit drives economic development across the country by taking historically significant and underutilized buildings and transforming them into viable community assets. The tax credit is administered by the National Park Service and the Internal Revenue Service in conjunction with the State Historic Preservation Offices. It was initially enacted in 1978 and was made permanent in the tax code in 1986. ##
03.23.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after President Donald J. Trump appointed John R. Bolton as his 3rd national security advisor in 14 months. Bolton replaces Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster who will resign from his position in April. “I am troubled by President Trump’s decision to make John Bolton the new national security advisor. His provocative and confrontational rhetoric have raised concerns not only in the United States, but with our friends and allies around the world. And his frequent advocacy of preemptive military force against Iran and North Korea should worry every American. As someone who voted against the Iraq war, which Bolton continues to unapologetically to support, I sincerely question his judgement and perspective. Lt. Gen McMaster was a steady hand who understood the importance of conventional foreign policy and diplomacy. Unfortunately, he is being replace by someone who has a long record promoting aggression and regime change.” ##
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ)—the top Democrats on committees with jurisdiction over the Affordable Care Act (ACA)—today released the following joint statement to highlight the eighth anniversary of the law: “Today marks the eighth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, legislation that ended decades of insurance companies price gouging, setting lifetime limits, and discriminating against Americans with pre-existing conditions. For the first time in our nation's history, this landmark law expanded protections so that no matter where people lived or worked in the United States, their families would have access to affordable, comprehensive health care. Americans of all ages and all walks of life have benefitted. “Since the ACA’s passage, congressional Republicans have made numerous unsuccessful attempts to repeal the law and undo its improvements to millions of Americans’ health and financial security. Over the last year, the Trump Administration joined in these misguided efforts to sabotage our country’s health care system, taking steps to weaken consumer protections and causing premiums to skyrocket. We once again call on Republicans to work constructively with us on meaningful and lasting bipartisan improvements to our nation’s health care system, such as those in the Undo Sabotage and Expand Affordability of Health Insurance Act of 2018.” ###
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The Senate passed by unanimous consent yesterday H.R. 4547, the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018 – bipartisan legislation to strengthen and improve the representative payee program to better protect those Social Security beneficiaries who are unable to manage their benefits on their own. House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement upon Senate passage: “This bipartisan bill will better protect the millions of Americans who depend on the help of representative payees. By strengthening oversight, improving payee selection, and reducing the burdens put on families, this bill will make much-needed changes to strengthen this program. “We want to express our gratitude to Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX), who has been a champion throughout his career for Americans who depend on Social Security, and to Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT), for his dedication to improving this program. We encourage swift action from the President to sign this important, bipartisan legislation into law.” ###
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement on the $1.3 trillion omnibus appropriations package for Fiscal Year 2018. “While this spending package is far from ideal, I am happy that it includes many items that will benefit residents of the First Congressional District. These include the allocation of funding to address the opioid epidemic, specifically in rural communities; grants to extend the capacity of rural broadband; investments in funding for our veterans; funding to repair our crumbling infrastructure; and an expansion of the low-income housing tax credit. On balance, this legislation strives to support strong families, job creation, and economic growth.” ##
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after President Trump announced the Administration’s findings from the Section 301 Investigation on China’s policies and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation: “Whether we’ve heard the stories from individual inventors, small businesses, our largest multinational corporations, or our intelligence community, we know that China has abused its powers over a sustained period of time to extort, force, or outright steal intellectual property from American innovators. It should not surprise anyone that the Administration has found that the Chinese policies and practices that were examined in this Section 301 investigation have been unreasonable, discriminatory and have been harmful to U.S. commerce and the U.S. economy. “The difficult question that past U.S. administrations have also grappled with is how to take effective action to safeguard U.S. intellectual property rights and to enforce U.S. economic and trade interests against China’s unfair practices. “Based on today’s announcement, we know that the Trump Administration is now prepared to take a WTO case against China. We know that the Administration is seriously considering imposing tariffs on imports from China and that the Treasury Department has been tasked with considering investment restrictions. We still don’t know what tariffs will be imposed or whether investment restrictions will be made. We also don’t know whether the actions, when the Administration finally decides on them, will be effective. “There is no doubt that action has been needed on these problems for a long time. Today's announcement leaves us with more questions than answers.” ###
03.22.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Secretary Ross, I want to welcome you on behalf of the Committee Democrats. Today’s hearing is an opportunity for us to hear from you directly about the steel and aluminum tariffs that are scheduled to go into effect tomorrow and details about the processes for exclusions and exemptions that are still ongoing. We know that the steel and aluminum industries in the United States have been struggling for many years. We also know that the situation is the direct result of unfair practices of our trading partners. China has been the most flagrant bad actor. Many of their steel and aluminum companies are really just extensions of the Chinese government that benefit from massive government subsidies. In 2000, China’s steel capacity was just over 100 million tons, roughly the same as the United States. Today, it is 1.2 billion tons – more than 10 times as high as U.S. capacity – and more than the total capacity of the United States, the European Union, Japan, and Russia combined. Chinese industrial policies have led to massive amounts of overcapacity in both the steel and aluminum industries. Global markets have been flooded and the price of both commodities has dropped so low that firms playing by the rules cannot compete. This situation has put our workers and firms in an unsustainable position. They deserve strong action and support from the U.S. government. In response to these issues, this Administration has announced that it will impose a 25 percent tariff on steel imports and a 10 percent import on aluminum imports. Those tariffs are set to take effect tomorrow. I understand why our steel and aluminum producers and workers are excited about the tariffs. The tariffs represent relief that they have been waiting for, for years – relief that will allow them to rebuild, restart, and rehire. I am concerned, however, that the relief promised by the tariffs will be watered down to the point that it will not be effective. And I am concerned that the way this action was rolled out will discourage cooperation from the international partners that we need in the fight against China’s overcapacity. We have a lot of questions about how the Administration will proceed in the coming weeks and months. We posed many of them already to Amb. Lighthizer yesterday. We understand that you and your Department have a different role in these investigations and in the administration of the exemption and exclusion processes. We are particularly interested in: When the country exemptions and product exclusion decisions will be made and when they will be made effective; How, once exemptions and exclusions are applied, the tariffs would still be able to provide the promised relief – and whether the tariff levels will be adjusted upward to account for the exemptions and exclusions; What the Administration’s plan is for monitoring whether the tariffs are “working” and how the Administration would modify the relief to adjust for real world effects; What the Administration’s vision is for how the steel and aluminum tariffs will contribute to a multilateral, coordinated strategy for counteracting the global overcapacity crisis; and How long the Administration envisions these tariffs would need to be in place to address the national security threat that your Department has found. Secretary Ross, I hope that you will provide clarity on these issues over the course of our hearing today. ###
03.21.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Ambassador Lighthizer, I want to welcome you on behalf of the Committee Democrats. Today’s hearing is an opportunity for us to hear from you and for you to hear from us about all the activity happening in U.S. trade policy. Over the past year, we have seen a lot of activity on trade from the Administration. You are currently in the process of renegotiating NAFTA to update it and, more importantly, to rebalance it. You are also renegotiating the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement to improve it and to ensure that it delivers more reciprocal outcomes for U.S. workers, exporters, and businesses. The Administration has recently decided to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports under Section 232 and is currently in the process of deciding on country exemptions and product exclusions. And as we are reading in news reports, in a matter of days, the Administration will announce its findings in the Section 301 investigation into Chinese IP abuses and may also be prepared to impose substantial tariffs on imports from China. The President tapped into raw feelings in some important communities about our economy and our trade policies. We have seen in the past months that this Administration and you personally, Amb. Lighthizer, have not been shy about challenging the status quo. For many of us, we have taken notice of the promises that the Administration has made to improve U.S. trade policy and to make it work for all Americans. Many of us have also been skeptical of those promises, because they are big promises and we have heard them before. But we have seen evidence of your commitment. For example, we hear you when you say that your task is not just to update NAFTA, but to fundamentally re-structure it to fix important flaws of the original agreement – flaws that prevented Members of Congress like me from supporting it. In the tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, we recognize the intention of providing much-needed relief to industries and workers that have called for action for a very long time. But we also have a lot of questions and are watching closely to determine whether the promises this Administration has made will actually be delivered. Whether that is in NAFTA, the 232 tariffs, the Korea agreement, or the China 301 investigation. Finally, in the bigger picture, I think it should be clear to all of us that some of the greatest challenges facing our economy and our values are being posed by countries that rely on heavy state intervention and do not operate on market principles. We should all be on the same team in taking on those challenges. In fact, if we want to be really effective, it seems to make sense that we should build that team beyond Democrats and Republicans to other countries and economies. I look forward to hearing from you today about your vision and plan for delivering this Administration’s promises on trade; about how we take on global competitive challenges effectively; and about how the Administration partners with Congress. ###
03.20.2018	SPRINGFIELD, MA - Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on the six month anniversary of Hurricane Maria hitting Puerto Rico. "Today marks six months after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico. It quickly became the island’s most destructive storm in decades. The US Army Corps of Engineers estimates that 1 in 10 customers still will not have power by the end of March. This prevents individuals from restarting their lives, accessing health services, ensuring their children are back to school, and getting clean water. We must do more to ensure that necessary funding and supplies continue to flow to the island rapidly and efficiently." ##
03.14.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Let me start by saying that I’m very pleased to be a member of this committee and I’m hopeful that by working together on a bipartisan basis we can address the multiemployer pension crisis. Retirement income is referred to by many as a three legged stool: Social Security, employer-sponsored retirement plans and personal savings. Fortunately, Americans can count on their Social Security benefits. However, these days two of the other legs of the stool are pretty shaky. And the reality is with an average monthly benefit of $1,400 – and an annual benefit of less than $17,000 a year, it’s difficult to live comfortably in retirement on just Social Security. Multiemployer pension plans are contributing to the wobbly three legged stools for many retirees because these plans are in crisis. About 10 million Americans participate in multiemployer plans and about 1.5 million of them are in plans that are quickly running out of money. These are American workers who planned for their retirement. People who year after year chose to contribute to their pensions instead of taking a wage increase. Then after working for 30-plus years, their planned retirements may be taken away from them. And taken away at a time when they no longer have time to prepare for retirement because they’re now in retirement. We all know retirees who are in this devastating predicament – from truck drivers to autoworkers to ironworkers, these Americans live in all of our communities. A retiree from my home state of Massachusetts barely escaped these devastating benefit cuts. He worked as a car hauler for almost 30 years. Then, years into his retirement, he received a notice from his pension plan telling him that his monthly benefit could be cut by more than 50 percent. He was disabled, so his elderly wife, who herself had already worked more than 40 years, began looking for a job to cover what they had been told was a promised benefit for life. Fortunately, the pension plan’s benefit cuts application with Treasury was denied, but the plan is still troubled and this retired Massachusetts couple’s financial security remains at risk. It is critical that we address this crisis and help these retirees whose retirements are now at risk by no fault of their own. As a long-time leader in the retirement space, I’ve been working with my colleague, Senator Brown, to do just that. We’ve introduced legislation that would offer troubled multiemployer plans low interest rate loans to pay retirees’ benefits. The loans would be funded through money from the private sector through the issuance of bonds. My bill does not allow for any benefit cuts. These retirees earned these benefits through years of hard work. They deserve to receive their full benefit. This is not a bailout. The plans would be required by law to pay back the loans. The federal government is simply backstopping the risk. And I should highlight that the House bill has a number of Republican co-sponsors. Today 10,000 Baby Boomers retire every day. However, many Baby Boomers simply can’t afford to retire and must continue working. This will be even more the case for the next generation who generally no longer have defined benefit pensions. The Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act would address a big part of the problems with our retirement system – the multiemployer pension crisis. Today American workers need our help and it’s time to answer that call. I hope this committee will do just that. ###
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON—Today, 140 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives called on President Trump to follow the letter and spirit of the law by imposing sanctions against those behind Russia’s attacks on American democracy. In a letter led by Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot L. Engel, the lawmakers underscored that President Trump has failed to punish those responsible for meddling in the 2016 election from overseas and has done nothing to prevent future attacks, which his Administration acknowledges are already underway. “Your actions over the last year have shown that you will constantly excuse President Putin and deny his well established assistance to your campaign in 2016. With this latest action, you are ignoring the law and the prerogatives of a coequal branch of government and letting Russia know you will do nothing to stop additional interference in our elections—interference that will presumably benefit your own political objectives,” wrote the members. “We've given you the tools needed to meet this challenge. If you continue to leave those tools on the shelf, we will push for additional legislative action with more stringent requirements. If you refuse to protect the United States from a hostile foreign government, Congress must act on our own. The future of our democracy is on the line.” The full letter is available here. ##
03.09.2018	BARNES AIR NATIONAL GUARD BASE, WESTFIELD, Mass. – Today, Governor Charlie Baker, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Congressman Richard Neal and Maj. Gen. Gary Keefe will join the men and women of the 104th Fighter Wing at a ribbon cutting ceremony for the opening of the renovated main hangar at 3 p.m. Speakers will include Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker, U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren, Congressman Richard Neal, and the Adjutant General, Massachusetts National Guard Maj. Gen. Gary W. Keefe. “The renovated Aircraft Maintenance Hangar at the Barnes Air National Guard was an important project to benefit the 104th Fighter Wing and its mission readiness," said Governor Charlie Baker. “From the US-Canadian border to Washington, D.C., the 104th is always ready to respond on a moment’s notice, and this hangar will ensure that maintenance personnel have everything they need to keep the aircraft fully mission capable.” "Today's dedication and opening of the renovated Aircraft Maintenance Hangar at the Barnes Air National Guard is a welcome accomplishment," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "The 104th Fighter Wing now has a modern facility with state-of-the-art equipment to better support the tremendous work that they do - keeping the aircraft in good condition so that they are equipped and prepared should a call to action be commanded. This hangar will not only provide the personnel a better facility to work to ensure the aircraft is mission capable, it will continue to safeguard the 104th Fighter Wing's reliability to the United States Air Force." The hangar was rebuilt with safety and energy efficiency in mind to extend the capabilities of the 104thFW for future generations. One example is the environmental friendly translucent panel doors installed to save money and provide natural lighting for the work space. The construction is certified as Leadership Energy Environmental Design (LEED) Silver. The LEED certification is designed to support public health and our environment. The hangar facility provides Airmen of the 104th FW an efficient and safe work space to continue to keep aircraft maintained in support of the air dominance mission. "It's a great day for the men and women of the 104th Fighter Wing,” said Maj. Gen. Gary Keefe, The Adjutant General, Massachusetts National Guard. “Like every winning team, the 104th as America's premiere Air National Guard unit, depends on its people, equipment and facilities to get the job done. This new maintenance hangar will provide our pilots, mechanics, and ground crews modern work space to ensure that every F-15 is maintained to the highest standard of readiness to meet the mission. The renovated hangar provides improved work space for the present day and positions the 104th Fighter Wing to be ready to accept the next generation of Air Force fighter jets to ensure that the Massachusetts Air National Guard remains an indispensable component of America's air defense well into the twenty-first century." In addition to protecting the nation's air space around the clock, Airman from the 104th FW deploy people and equipment in support of its federal mission globally and provides well trained personnel and equipment here at home as part its state mission to respond to natural disaster civil emergencies when called upon by the Governor. “The completion of this hangar which includes space to work on up to six aircraft, renovated maintenance repair shops, and improved office space is a major upgrade to our ability to generate air superiority for America,” said Col. James M. Suhr, Commander, 104th Fighter Wing. Media are invited to the ceremony and should arrive no later than 3 p.m. on Friday, March 9. All media must register for access by 10 A.M. on Friday, March 9 by e-mailing Julie.l.Avey.mil@mail.mil of the 104th Fighter Wing Public Affairs office at 104fw.pa.mil@mail.mil or calling 413-568-9151 ext. 698-1299, or Cell: (413) 564-9273. #30#
03.09.2018	PITTSFIELD, MA – March 9, 2018 - Today, the Baker-Polito Administration celebrated the state’s commitment to the $13.7 million Berkshire Innovation Center, which will catalyze and accelerate innovation and growth of new and existing companies in Western Massachusetts. The 20,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art facility will enable shared research, early-stage production and commercialization, and workforce training. The Baker-Polito Administration has committed nearly $12.5 million towards the project, through a $12,025,000 total allocation from the Massachusetts Life Sciences Center, and the approval of $450,000 from MassDevelopment. This funding leverages an additional $1 million commitment from the City of Pittsfield, and $300,000 from the Pittsfield Economic Development Authority. The Berkshire Innovation Center will include training facilities, biotech wet lab space, clean rooms, office and event space for small to medium-sized life sciences companies to support economic growth, jobs, and private investment in region. “Our administration is committed to supporting public-private partnerships and strategic investments that continue to improve Massachusetts’ position as a global leader in the life sciences,” said Governor Charlie Baker. “Investing in the Berkshire Innovation Center will help the region attract more employers in innovation and technology, give researchers the best available tools and a collaborative environment, and train our workforce for successful life science careers in Western Massachusetts.” The Berkshire Innovation Center, Inc. (BIC) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit created to promote and accelerate the innovation and growth of existing life sciences supply chain and advanced manufacturing companies in Western Massachusetts. BIC will assist companies by enabling early-stage production and commercialization, and by fostering shared research. “Our administration has a strong commitment to increasing educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering and math for students across the state,” said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. “We are excited that this investment in the Berkshire Innovation Center will enhance the talent pipeline and provide more opportunities for people and businesses in the Berkshires.” Governor Baker and Lieutenant Governor Polito joined Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash, Massachusetts Life Sciences Center President & CEO Travis McCready, MassDevelopment President & CEO Lauren Liss, Congressman Richard Neal, Pittsfield Mayor Linda Tyer, local and state officials, and Berkshire County business and community leaders for the celebration near the future site of the BIC at the William Stanley Business Park. “I am thrilled to be here with our partners in this project, and incredibly proud of the immense effort and continued support that made today’s celebration possible,” said Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash. “The Berkshire Innovation Center is the result of close collaboration across parties, and a strong vision for the future of the life-sciences sector in Pittsfield, and the Berkshire region.” The BIC will bring advanced capabilities to its member companies including shared access to cutting-edge research and development and prototyping equipment, customized training programs, student internship programs, and collaborative opportunities with the BIC’s research and education partners. ​ “This investment in the Berkshire Innovation Center will enhance our state’s strong life sciences industry and support job creation and innovation in the region,” said Administration and Finance Secretary Michael J. Heffernan. “We have been proud to work with our partners across state and local government, as well as the private sector, to be able to make this announcement today.” “We’re proud to be supporting the growth and development of the life sciences throughout Massachusetts,” said Massachusetts Life Sciences Center President & CEO Travis McCready. “As we move into the next generation of the MLSC, this investment in innovation in the Berkshires is a valuable component to our strategy to ensure Massachusetts continues to be home to the most verdant and productive life sciences ecosystem in the world.” “The Commonwealth’s Advanced Manufacturing Futures Program facilitates the growth and competitiveness of the manufacturing industry through grants, contracts, and loans,” said MassDevelopment President and CEO Lauren Liss. “MassDevelopment is grateful to the Baker-Polito Administration for its efforts to support this key sector, and we are pleased to have played a role with the Berkshire Innovation Center” Nearly 5,000 jobs in Berkshire Country are in the manufacturing sector, making it the fifth largest industry in the region. Manufacturing represents a key industry base in Berkshire County and is comprised of small and mid-sized enterprises (SMEs), which play a critical role in maintaining and growing the manufacturing strengths of Massachusetts economy. “Having a landmark, state-of-the-art innovation center at the William Stanley Business Park in Pittsfield will change the landscape for advanced manufacturing R&D and for building a pipeline of highly trained employees. We know this is a key sector for economic growth opportunities. This is the future,” said Pittsfield Mayor Linda Tyer. “We’re proud of the city’s role in further catalyzing advanced manufacturing in Pittsfield and the region. I am exceedingly grateful to Governor Baker, Lieutenant Governor Polito, Secretary Ash, and the Massachusetts Life Sciences Center for understanding the unique economic fabric of Pittsfield and the Berkshires. Without their support and guidance throughout this process we would not have achieved this milestone.” A May 2015 report from MIT’s Industrial Performance cited the need for the Commonwealth, “to advance its efforts and maximize investments to support manufacturing in the state.” The report also emphasized that, given the prevalence of new technologies, “programs to support SMEs and build their innovation capacity need to go further. Specifically, support should be expanded to include centers, either existing or yet to be formed, that provide technological and engineering services to SMEs engaged in product and process innovation.” “Today’s announcement marks a new and significant chapter in the growth and development of the Berkshire Innovation Center,” said BIC Chair Stephen Boyd. “The traction and support this project has received both on the ground from local stakeholders and the Baker-Polito Administration has been essential and pivotal to the BIC and the future manufacturing and economic landscape of Berkshire County.” “It has been a sincere, collaborative effort, led by the Baker-Polito Administration, to make the Berkshire Innovation Center a reality,”said Pittsfield Economic Development Authority Chair Mick Callahan. “Both the mission of the BIC and our collective commitment to the continued growth in Pittsfield and the region are alive and well.” BIC will occupy a custom 20,000-square-foot facility that is expected to be completed by July 2019. After many years in the planning, BIC has its entire construction and equipment budget committed. Project managers expect to break ground in the summer of 2018 after completing final design, permitting and construction contracting. Numerous federal, state, and local leaders were on hand for the BIC project launch and joined in the chorus of praise to celebrate the significant milestone for the region’s life sciences innovation hub: “Massachusetts has a proud history of being a longtime leader in the life sciences industry,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Governor Baker’s commitment to continue to fund growth and opportunity at the Berkshire Innovation Center is a tremendous asset to the residents of Berkshire County and beyond. With this space, individuals and companies are able to enrich their talent pool while working on projects that are beneficial to the greater Massachusetts economy.” “Reinventing and reinvigorating our regional economy requires strategic investments,” said State Senator Adam G. Hinds. “This innovation center is just what we need to support local businesses, attract new companies and position the Berkshires for further growth in a modern economy.”​ In June, the Baker-Polito Administration announced a legislative proposal to bolster Massachusetts’ leadership in the life sciences sector, which would provide up to $500 million over five years for strategic investments in public infrastructure, research and development, and workforce training and education, including up to $295 million in capital authorization and up to $150 million in job-creating tax incentives. The funding will continue to be managed by the Massachusetts Life Sciences Center (MLSC), which is co-chaired by Administration and Finance Secretary Michael J. Heffernan and Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash. About the Massachusetts Life Sciences Center The Massachusetts Life Sciences Center (MLSC) is an economic development investment agency dedicated to supporting the growth and development of the life sciences in Massachusetts, home to the most verdant and productive life sciences ecosystem in the world. Through public-private funding initiatives, the MLSC supports innovation, research & development, commercialization, and manufacturing activities in the fields of biopharma, medical device, diagnostics, and digital health. Since its creation in 2007, the MLSC has strategically deployed over $700 million in Massachusetts, through a combination of grants, loans, capital infrastructure investments, tax incentives, and workforce programs. These investments have created thousands of jobs, and propelled the development of new therapies, devices, and scientific advancements that are improving patient health and well-being in Massachusetts and beyond. About MassDevelopment MassDevelopment, the state’s finance and development agency, works with businesses, nonprofits, financial institutions, and communities to stimulate economic growth across the Commonwealth. During FY2017, MassDevelopment financed or managed 377 projects generating investment of more than $4.3 billion in the Massachusetts economy. These projects are projected to create about 9,488 jobs and build or rehabilitate 1,863 residential units. ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement after President Trump announced his plan to impose tariffs of 10 percent on aluminum imports and 25 percent on steel imports, with provisional exceptions for Mexico and Canada: “China’s unfair trade practices have led to severe overcapacity in the steel and aluminum sectors that has devastated U.S. industries. As a result, American producers have shuttered their plants and workers have lost their jobs. It appears that the President is finally taking an action today to fulfill a nearly year-old promise to U.S. steel and aluminum producers and workers. You wouldn’t necessarily know that, because for the last week he’s pursued a chaotic process and used punishing rhetoric that treats all U.S. trading partners as national security concerns and fails to recognize the complexities of our market. Our workers and producers in steel and aluminum deserve effective relief, which will require strong and coordinated action with our allies. I expect the administration to ramp up its engagement with Congress, stakeholders, and our trading partners to ensure that today’s actions lead to a sustainable solution that confronts the problems that we all know have been caused by China’s rampant overcapacity in steel and aluminum.” ##
03.08.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, a longtime member of the House Appropriations Committee, led a bicameral letter with 57 of his colleagues to Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin urging him to expedite the Community Disaster Loan process so that Puerto Rico has sufficient funds to offer essential services to its residents. According to recent reports, the loan amount offered to Puerto Rico is $2.06 billion instead of the $4.7 billion appropriated by Congress last year. The Treasury Department has also sought to impose stringent repayment terms on the loan. Congressman Serrano and his colleagues in both chambers urged the Secretary to offer the full loan amount and act in good faith. Puerto Rico has already been forced to provide the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA) an emergency loan for $300 million to ensure they can continue delivering already limited electricity services, adding an unnecessary burden on the government and the people of Puerto Rico at a time of deep fiscal distress. Onerous loan terms would only further undermine local recovery efforts and capacity to offer basic services. In addition to Congressman Serrano, the following Members signed the letter: Senators Warren, Blumenthal, Gillibrand, and Menendez, as well as Representatives Soto, Velázquez, Gutiérrez, Crowley, Norton, Espaillat, Meng, Jayapal, Schakowsky, Sean Patrick Maloney, Hastings, Murphy, Brady, Carson, Grijalva, Shea-Porter, Ellison, Sires, Tsongas, Norcross, Hank Johnson, Frederica S. Wilson, Kathleen M. Rice, Kaptur, Wasserman Schultz, Vargas, Torres, Crist, Esty, Pallone, Carolyn B. Maloney, Visclosky, McGovern, Engel, Boyle, Pascrell, Sablan, Neal, Brown, Moore, Moulton, Lewis, McNerney, Danny K. Davis, Larson, Clay, Lynch, DeSaulnier, Watson Coleman, DeLauro, Lee, Cleaver, and Garamendi. “Puerto Rico remains in deep fiscal distress. The Department of the Treasury should—instead of acting like a bank or hedge fund in the quest for profit—offer a helping hand by offering generous terms on the loan in order to incentivize a quick recovery on the island. To this date, more than six months after Hurricanes Irma and Maria struck the island almost 20 percent of the people of Puerto Rico have no power. More than 300,000 people have left the island and many more will do so unless the federal government does more to provide relief. Fully funding a loan at $4.7 billion will help the Puerto Rican government and its 78 municipalities provide basic services for its residents and prevent a mass exodus. Absent such a request, it seems likely that the Puerto Rican government will simply not have the necessary funds to operate at full capacity,” wrote the members. Text of the letter may be found here. ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement on International Women's Day in honor of National Women's History Month. "March is Women’s History Month, a time when we honor the many extraordinary accomplishments made by women throughout history. From the right to vote to the freedom to work outside the home, women all over the United States have made important strides over the last century. While women have made great advances, we are reminded that there is still so much to be done to secure true equality.Women’s history is American history. And, women have brought us to where we are today through perseverance, courage, and solidarity. Future generations will look at the female leaders of today and yesterday and know that they are capable of achieving great things. I hope you will join me in celebrating this Women’s History Month and the many contributions women have made to our great country. Here in Congress, I will continue to defend the rights of women, fight for progress, and make sure every voice is heard." ##
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) sent a letter to Business Roundtable Chairman Jamie Dimon encouraging companies to help their workers weather the United States’ retirement crisis and invest savings they received from Republicans’ $2.3 trillion tax law in their employees’ pensions or 401(k) plans. Given that 50 percent of Americans do not have enough savings to live comfortably in retirement, Rep. Neal emphasized the opportunity businesses have to improve their workers’ long-term financial security. “Companies now face a choice. Will they choose to spend their newfound financial windfall on stock buybacks or will they make a real investment in their workers’ financial and retirement security?” Rep. Neal wrote. “As millions of Americans face dire futures of financial uncertainty, it is my hope that the Business Roundtable will use its leadership and influence to encourage companies to contribute greater amounts to their employees’ retirements, so that more Americans will be prepared for life after work.” The Republican tax law provides permanent, substantial tax cuts for corporations, while individuals receive much smaller, temporary breaks. Moreover, 83 percent of the law’s individual tax cuts ultimately go to the wealthiest one percent of Americans, leaving middle-class workers behind. Rep. Neal added in his letter: “During the recent recession, a number of companies suspended these contributions, which resulted in many retirees having to postpone their retirement. Fortunately, with improvements to the economy and markets, most employers have reestablished those contributions. This new tax break provides an opportunity for companies to ‘make up’ those contributions and even increase levels of savings for employees.” Full text of the letter is available here. Congressman Neal was recently appointed to the Joint Select Committee on the Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans, and has introduced H.R. 4444, the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, which has the bipartisan support of 148 members of the House of Representatives. ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, three Ranking Members from the Ways and Means Committee sent a letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Chairman Tom Cole (R-OK) and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), requesting the Committee provide the Social Security Administration (SSA) with at least an additional $560 million in FY 2018 over total FY 2017 funding. In their letter, Ways and Means Ranking Members Richard Neal (D-MA), Rep. John Larson (D-CT), and Rep. Danny K. Davis (D-IL) said the funds should be used to reduce hearing backlogs, wait times, and delays throughout SSA. The members point out that SSA’s operating budget has fallen by 11 percent since 2010, after adjustment for inflation, while the number of beneficiaries has risen by 15 percent. Because of these cuts, disability waiting times have skyrocketed to unprecedented levels; Americans who call Social Security’s national 800-number to resolve a problem or find out information are unable to get through; and 4 million beneficiaries are caught in a “hidden backlog” at SSA’s payment centers. Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
02.27.2018	(As prepared for delivery) I thank the Chairman for holding this markup today and I regret that we were not able to find consensus on the Views & Estimates letter. Our country’s fiscal outlook is precarious in large part because of the Republican tax law. The law adds at least $2.3 trillion to the nation’s debt while giving massive tax cuts to big corporations. The Republicans claim that the United States will have strong economic growth as a result of their tax law. However, not one main stream economist has made a similar assertion. Instead, to pay for these corporate handouts, the Republicans intend to cut funding for programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, vital benefits that hardworking Americans have paid into and earned. That’s not something I can support. Therefore, for these reasons, we will submit a separate Views & Estimates letter to the Budget Committee. ###
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after President Donald Trump suggested arming teachers and other school staffers was a way to solve gun violence in our schools. "I am strongly opposed to arming teachers in our classrooms. A recent Quinnipiac Poll found that while 75 percent of individuals believe that Congress must do more to reduce gun violence, only 20 percent think giving educators guns is the answer. Our teachers need more funding for educational materials, curriculum support, and school supplies to help our children and grandchildren succeed. The focus needs to stay on passing common sense gun legislation that will strengthen and improve our federal background check system to include those with a history of mental illness and those with criminal records.” ##
02.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following statement on his appointment to the new Joint Select Committee on Solvency and Multiemployer Pensions: “Fundamental to the American dream is the opportunity to enjoy a secure retirement after decades of hard work. But today, our nation faces a retirement crisis as millions of pension plans are nearing insolvency. I look forward to working with my fellow committee members to find bipartisan solutions that ensure Americans who worked hard and followed the rules don’t live in fear of the rug being pulled out from under them in retirement.” Rep. Neal has introduced H.R. 4444, the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, which has the bipartisan support of 148 members of the House of Representatives. ###
02.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) introduced a bill to expand access to evidence-based treatment for opioid use disorders for Medicare beneficiaries. The bill would give Medicare beneficiaries access to outpatient treatment at Opioid Treatment Programs (OTPs), which provide medication-assisted treatment. Medication-assisted treatment is the most effective treatment for opioid use disorders, sustaining long-term recovery by combining medications, like methadone, buprenorphine, and naltrexone, with counseling and behavioral therapies. Currently, Medicare does not recognize OTPs as providers, and therefore does not cover treatment delivered to beneficiaries in these outpatient settings. OTPs currently provide treatment to Medicaid enrollees and individuals with commercial insurance coverage. The bill introduced by Pallone and Neal today would enable Medicare to pay OTPs for a package of services – a “bundle” – provided to beneficiaries. “As the opioid epidemic grows throughout the nation, Congress must do everything possible to ensure that anyone suffering from this disorder has access to all forms of effective treatment,” Neal and Pallone said. “For too long, Medicare beneficiaries have not had access to treatment at OTPs, an important tool in addressing the opioid crisis. This legislation addresses this gap in coverage, expanding access to critical and lifesaving treatment options for Medicare beneficiaries at a time when opioid abuse is growing among the senior population. Though not frequently discussed, the opioid epidemic is a significant and growing problem in the Medicare population. Medicare beneficiaries have among the highest and most rapidly growing prevalence of opioid use disorders and opioid-related hospitalizations. One-third of beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare’s drug program (Part D) received an opioid prescription in 2016, and among Medicare beneficiaries under age 65 who qualify on the basis of disability, nearly 50 percent are receiving opioid prescriptions. ###
02.22.2018	Courthouse Presser Closeup Courthouse Presser
02.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following joint statement today in response to the Trump Administration’s release of a proposed rule that would allow health insurance companies to offer short-term plans that do not comply with Affordable Care Act (ACA) consumer protection standards: “The Trump Administration’s proposal to allow short-term health insurance plans that do not comply with the Affordable Care Act’s consumer protections is the latest step in their ongoing effort to sabotage our nation’s healthcare system. Today’s action will leave families on the hook for thousands of dollars in uncovered healthcare costs and allow insurers to once again discriminate against individuals with pre-existing conditions. Widespread marketing of these bare bones, junk plans will further destabilize health insurance markets, and will lead to higher premiums for everyone. “The American people want access to high quality, affordable health insurance, and it is time for the Trump Administration to stop its relentless and destructive campaign to sabotage the Affordable Care Act.” Today’s announcement is the latest in an ongoing effort by the Trump Administration to unwind the ACA’s consumer protections. ###
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today issued the following statements after the U.S. Department of Commerce released its reports in the Section 232 national security investigations on steel and aluminum imports and announced the recommendations it presented to the President for import restrictions on steel and aluminum: Rep. Neal: “China’s massive overcapacity in steel and aluminum production has hurt U.S. producers and workers. The scope of the overcapacity is so substantial that it disfigures the global market and hurts producers and workers in other countries too. “With today’s release of the Commerce Department’s reports and recommendations in the Section 232 national security investigations into steel and aluminum imports, the focus intensifies on what the Administration will choose to do. I urge the Administration and all affected parties to work toward solutions that will remedy the root problem and craft a strategy to re-establish fair trade in these products that supports America’s workers and firms.” Rep. Pascrell: “I’ve been calling for increased transparency in U.S. trade policy, so I applaud the Administration’s decision to publicly release the Commerce Department’s reports on steel and aluminum. I look forward to digging further into the contents of these reports. “But publishing these delayed reports is not nearly enough. Since the Administration began these investigations, imports of steel and aluminum have actually increased, further exacerbating the very problem they were intended to resolve. American workers and industries deserve thoughtful action. Confronting China with our allies, the President could help our workers by implementing an effective strategy to counteract the harm caused by Chinese overcapacity. So far, the President’s dithering has only made things worse.” ###
02.15.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after 17 people were killed and dozens more wounded in a mass shooting in a South Florida high school. It is the deadliest school in the United States since the 2012 rampage at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. “My heart breaks for the families who lost loved ones in the senseless violence that occurred yesterday at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. With 17 people killed and dozens injured, it is the deadliest school shooting since the 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. Even more troubling, it is the 18th school shooting to take place in the United States during the first 45 days of this year. As a father and a grandfather, I don’t think parents should have to worry about the safety of their children when they drop them off at school in the morning. And like the vast majority of Americans, I strongly support universal background checks for all gun purchases. The time for Congress to pass common sense gun legislation that will strengthen and improve our federal background check system is long overdue. It is still far too easy for people to buy a gun in this country, particularly those with criminal backgrounds and individuals with a history of mental illness. I believe stronger federal background checks for all gun purchases will help prevent the next tragedy from happening.” ##
02.15.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Secretary Mnuchin, thank you for joining us today. A budget is a reflection of one’s values – and President Trump’s budget is no exception. As we have seen time and time again, the Trump Administration has focused on the needs of the wealthy and well-connected instead of middle-class families. From attacking Americans’ healthcare and Social Security to dismantling protections for struggling families, President Trump has reminded us once again of his values and who he is really looking out for as president. For example, the Trump budget cuts Medicare by over $500 billion, jeopardizing this important program for older Americans. We saw these same priorities last year when President Trump and the Republicans rammed through a $2.3 trillion tax cut for the wealthy and corporate America. While Republicans claim that their bill will benefit average Americans, the evidence is clear - 83% of the benefit will go directly to those at the very top. Let’s be clear – the Republicans priority with their tax legislation is the wealthy and corporations and not the middle-class. While big companies and the most well-off and well-connected reap massive benefits, tens of thousands of workers are being laid off and middle-class families are not seeing the gains Republicans promised. I saw this myself back home in Massachusetts when the legislation first passed. The Republicans’ tax bill limits the SALT deduction to $10,000. However, the bill allowed for taxpayers to pre-pay their 2018 property taxes before the close of 2017. In Massachusetts, there was a tremendous amount of interest in doing this and we saw an influx of lines at city halls across the state. In fact, in an attempt to help my constituents find their way through a maze of confusion, I asked the IRS to issue guidance to help taxpayers make these payments. However, instead of issuing taxpayer-friendly guidance, the IRS issued guidance that complicated matters further and even limited middle-class family’s ability to take advantage of this tax benefit. That’s certainly not putting the middle-class first in my book. The Republican tax law also is fiscally irresponsible. The law adds at least $2.3 trillion to the nation’s debt while giving massive tax cuts to big corporations. Republicans’ claim that these massive corporate tax cuts will pay for themselves. However, tax cuts don’t pay for themselves, you pay for them. The White House budget director essentially admitted that himself yesterday. And to pay for these corporate handouts, Speaker Ryan and the Trump budget are clear in their intentions to cut funding for programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, vital benefits that hardworking Americans have paid into and earned. We can do better. Instead of cutting programs that middle-class families rely on, I call on my Republican colleagues to work with us on a bipartisan basis to fix problems impacting working families. One example would be to work together to address the multiemployer pension crisis. These American workers planned for their retirement and year after year chose to contribute to their pensions instead of taking a wage increase. Then after working for 30 plus years as ironworkers, truck drivers, and autoworkers, their planned retirements were taken away from them. And taken away at a time when they no longer have time to prepare for retirement because they’re already in retirement. We need to help these Americans whose retirements are at risk by no fault of their own. This is a bipartisan issue and I’m hopeful that the new Joint Select Committee on Solvency of the Multiemployer Pension Plans will be successful in developing solutions. Secretary Mnuchin, I also ask the Administration to help us with these efforts. Our goal with our work on this committee should be to always put working families first and act together to create opportunities for the middle class. Thank you. ###
02.14.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Thank you Mr. Chairman. And welcome Secretary Azar. We look forward to your first testimony before a Congressional Committee in your new role. My goal as an elected official is to provide the best path possible to opportunity for my constituents. That includes developing policies that help create jobs; deliver high-quality, low-cost health care; and generally help all Americans make a better life for their families. The budget President Trump has presented goes against those goals. Instead, it would create more obstacles for families to navigate as they try to make ends meet and move up the economic ladder. Last year, President Trump and the GOP rammed through a $2.3 trillion tax cut for the wealthy and corporations. In his budget, the president now attempts to fill the deficit hole by slashing critical health and family programs instead of building them up to expand middle class opportunities to move ahead. This budget sabotages health care programs by ripping the rug out from under the middle class and cuts the health care programs these hard-working Americans rely on. Under the Trump budget, millions more Americans will lose their health insurance, and health care costs will increase. The Republican Trump budget attacks pre-existing condition protections by allowing insurance companies to charge more for less coverage or deny coverage altogether. It creates an age tax, where seniors may be charged significantly more due to their age and once again allows women to face discrimination – just for being women. For millions of Americans, this budget would cause Americans’ health care premiums to skyrocket. The Trump budget cuts nearly $1.4 trillion from Medicaid and another half a trillion from Medicare. As more and more Baby Boomers enroll in Medicare, now is the time to strengthen and sustain the program, for example like adding critical benefits such as dental, vision and hearing coverage - not arbitrarily cut it. And the $1.4 trillion in cuts to Medicaid will lead to cuts to health care for children, individuals with disabilities, and people who need long term care. Medicaid is now a middle class benefit—it’s the reason your parents aren’t living in your attic, and is a key component to opioid and mental health treatment programs. Medicare, Medicaid and other health programs are more important than ever as our nation struggles to find an effective, long-term solution to the opioid crisis. Everyone in this room has a family member or knows someone directly impacted by an opioid or other drug-related disorder. Slashing programs that are designed to help those individuals is simply irresponsible. Health care is a crucial part of the economy around the United States. In my district alone, hospitals are one of the largest employers. Cuts to health programs would cause significant job loss. This budget cuts more than $200 billion in payments to hospitals, threatening additional closures. This proposal would dismantle protections for struggling families and supports for Americans getting and keeping good jobs. The Trump budget cuts employment services for job-seekers and employers. It limits access to community colleges for trade-affected workers, and it reduces the number of working families receiving child care assistance in many states. It makes no additional job training investments for workers who need to upgrade their skills. It slashes Meals on Wheels, child and adult protective services, substance abuse programs, and other key programs by eliminating the Social Services Block Grant. These proposals directly undermine the fight against opioid abuse. It also proposes Congress stop providing guaranteed multi-year funding for the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program (MIECHV), which is currently authorized through 2023. Instead of focusing on giving big corporations and the wealthy more than $2 trillion in tax breaks, we should be breaking down obstacles so middle-class families can get ahead. ##
02.12.2018	SPRINGFIELD, Mass. – U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement on President Trump’s infrastructure proposal. “While I am glad the conversation has begun about rehabilitating our country’s timeworn infrastructure, President Trump’s proposal released today on how to go about that change falls tremendously short. States and localities are cash strapped and unable in many cases to come up with the funding necessary to fix the roads, bridges, and buildings that in many instances have not been updated since they were first built during the New Deal era. Investing in infrastructure has always been an 80/20 federal/state model and it should remain that way so that real work can occur. This country needs a big infrastructure plan – to repair our communities and to put our people back to work. This should be something we can all agree on but it must be done the right way.” ##
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced H.R. 4979, bipartisan legislation that renews the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program for three years. The United States’ oldest and largest trade preference program, GSP provides targeted tariff relief while supporting American workers and businesses. “GSP is a long-standing program that has enjoyed broad bipartisan support for decades,” said Rep. Neal. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure prompt passage of this legislation.” “GSP is common sense legislation that achieves two aims: increasing the competitiveness of U.S. firms and workers and supporting growth in developing countries that benefit under the program,” said Rep. Pascrell. “The program also boosts small- and medium-sized enterprises. Consider Primetac, a family-owned business from my district that uses GSP-eligible goods to support their industrial packaging business. It is critical that we act quickly to renew this already expired program to support these firms and their employees.” The Generalized System of Preferences eliminates duties on thousands of products imported from 120 designated beneficiary countries and territories. The program is designed to boost American companies’ competitiveness, promote worker rights internationally, support economic development across the world, and lower costs for U.S. consumers. H.R. 4979 would both extend GSP through 2020 and grant retroactive benefits to U.S. companies for qualified products imported since the program’s authorization expired on December 31, 2017. ###
02.08.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after Mass Mutual announced a major expansion which will add 1,500 jobs in the City of Springfield and invest $300 Million in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. “This is terrific news for our community and state. Mass Mutual has made its home in Springfield for nearly 170 years. The company has been a solid corporate citizen that continues to invest its considerable resources locally. Today’s announcement that they are expanding their workforce in the city by 1,500 employees will have a significant and immediate impact on the region’s economy. I welcome Mass Mutual’ s decision and believe it is vote of confidence in the City of Springfield and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. ##
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rep. John Larson (CT-01), and Rep, Richard Neal (MA-01) announced updated guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that extends the period of time that homeowners have to claim crumbling foundation related repairs on their federal taxes. Under the guidance issued today, homeowners will now have through the end of 2020 to make qualified repairs to their home and until April 2021 to claim those repairs on an amended 2017 federal tax return. “This is welcome news for homeowners in our districts,” the members said. “The additional three years afforded under this updated policy provides critical time for more homeowners impacted by crumbling foundations to make repairs and secure federal tax relief. Since enactment of the new tax law, we have been in regular contact with officials from the Treasury and IRS to explore ways to extend as much relief as possible to homeowners in spite of the changes made by the law. We are grateful for their attention to our concerns and the support they have provided today to homeowners struggling with the damage caused by crumbling foundations.” Background: Last November, the IRS issued Rev. Proc. 2017-60 to enact a “safe harbor” for the treatment of crumbling foundation-related repair costs as a “casualty loss” deduction from a taxpayer's taxable income under Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code. The new tax law, signed into law in December, temporarily limits the applicability of Section 165. Under the law, beginning in tax year 2018 only taxpayers who suffer damage related to a presidentially-declared Stafford Act disaster may deduct their property-casualty losses. This provision expires in 2025. A December 21 letter to the members from the IRS confirmed that homeowners who had already completed repairs to their home before the end of 2017 would be able to claim the costs on their federal tax returns for 2017, or any open prior year. Generally speaking, taxpayers have three years from the date they filed their original tax return to file Form 1040X to amend their return (and claim this deduction). The updated revenue procedure extends the “safe harbor” through the period that 2017 returns can be amended, expected to be the filing season in spring of 2021. Homeowners should consult with a qualified tax preparer to see if they qualify for this deduction and determine how to use it on their 2017 or future returns as allowed under today’s updated guidance. # # #
02.06.2018	(As prepared for delivery) I am pleased we are holding a hearing to identify solutions to address opioid abuse and dependence specifically in the Medicare space. Although overdose rates are highest for people 25 to 54, this public health emergency also affects Medicare beneficiaries. Everyone in this room has a family member or knows someone directly impacted by the opioid epidemic. In my home state of Massachusetts, there were 2,094 confirmed opioid-related overdose deaths in 2016. I thank my neighbors to the north, Governor Scott and his Health Secretary Gobeille, for joining us today. We share a border and also that means we share a common challenge fighting the opioid crisis. The Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker, like Governor Scott, is working to employ all tools in this fight ranging from expanding Medicaid coverage to provide treatment availability, data analytics and treat addiction while stabilizing and supporting families. Opioid abuse and related deaths takes a toll on our communities and our families. There is no one single cause, and no one single solution. Expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act to low-income working Americans who previously could not afford insurance has been the most significant step in recent years to stem the tide of the opioid crisis, providing access to critical substance abuse and mental health services that previously were prohibitively costly. We also need to look to Medicare beneficiaries’ ability to access treatment, as oftentimes providers (or treatment options) aren’t available to meet the need. We know that there are significant gaps in coverage and access under Medicare. For example, Medicare does not cover Outpatient Treatment Programs (OTP) that provide comprehensive opioid addiction treatments nor does Medicare cover methadone for addiction, which is often the treatment of choice for longer-term addicts. I recently introduced legislation that would allow methadone to be covered for outpatient services under Medicare. We also need to work with our partners to identify best practices. Late last week, I sent a letter along with Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Pallone to 14 Medicare plans to ask them to compile their best practices to address opioid related disorders. Evidence based, tested activities that are helping patients turn the corner will help us design sound policies. I look forward to the plan responses, and I thank Dr. Paz from Aetna for joining us today to share what his plan is doing. We also need to explore how substance abuse is affecting children and families. This epidemic is fueling a rise in caseloads for child and adult protective services, and for foster care, as caregivers battle addiction. I am pleased that our Committee has worked together, on a bipartisan basis, on legislation to support families and help them keep children safe who would otherwise be in foster care safe at home. I hope we can continue this partnership, because we still have much work to do. I am concerned the benefit cuts that the Republican leadership plans for later this year would undermine these efforts. For example, the Social Services Block Grant (SSBG) is the largest source of federal funding for child protective services and the only major source of federal funding for adult protective services in most states. We clearly have work to do this year. Congress can have a positive role to play in partnering with states to provide resources, eliminating federal barriers to treatment and access, and supporting families and law enforcement. I look forward to addressing these issues this year. ###
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – As the opioid epidemic continues to devastate communities across the nation, top House Democratic health leaders have requested that insurance companies offering Medicare Advantage and Part D plans provide information that will help legislators more fully understand the scope of the crisis and more effectively address the epidemic. House Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and House Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) sent a letter to 14 companies asking for details regarding the challenges plans face and their efforts to address the epidemic. While the letter targets specific companies who have been active and leading in this space, the members welcome comments from any plans that would like to contribute to the discussion around the opioid crisis. Given companies’ experience on the front lines of working with beneficiaries, their suggestions for best practices to share and barriers to address will offer valuable insights as Congress tackles this health emergency. “Drug overdoses kill more Americans than falls, guns, or traffic accidents. Often overlooked, however, is the impact of the opioid epidemic on the Medicare population,” wrote the members. “The growth of Medicare Part D spending on opioids far outpaces the growth in enrollment, having increased 165 percent from 2006 to 2015. Additionally, among the nearly 12 million Part D beneficiaries who were prescribed opioids in 2015, the average beneficiary received five prescriptions for commonly abused opioids.” Neal and Pallone continued: “We request your assistance in helping us to understand the scope of opioid use disorders in the populations you serve, a description of the activities and best practices your plan has employed to curtail opioid abuse and promote evidence-based treatment for those who are misusing opioids, and an assessment of the challenges you face in addressing this epidemic.” Specific questions the members posed to the companies include: Are certain problems related to the epidemic (e.g., overprescribing) more prevalent in certain states? What types of barriers do you experience to addressing the epidemic in the Medicare population effectively? How does your plan identify and manage overprescribing? How does your plan identify appropriate and inappropriate opioid prescriptions? How do you engage patients on opioid use and misuse? What strategies do you engage in to coordinate care for individuals with opioid-use disorders, or those who potentially use inappropriate amounts of opioids? How do you evaluate the success or impact of initiatives undertaken to address opioid misuse? Full text of the letter, which requests responses by February 21, 2018, is available here. ###
02.02.2018	Springfield, MA – Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, Congressman Richard E. Neal, Commissioner of Health and Human Services Helen Caulton-Harris, Director of Capital Asset Construction Peter J. Garvey, and Executive Director of PBRM Patrick J. Sullivan hosted a ribbon cutting ceremony earlier today to celebrate the completion of the Raymond A. Jordan Senior Center (RAJSC) in Blunt Park. The $12 million facility is the first stand-alone building to offer senior programs in the city’s history. The RAJSC is approximately 23,500 square feet and includes a large grand hall that will be used as a multi-purpose space complemented by a full service commercial kitchen. Also on the first floor are administrative offices, a library and cafe area, and a computer/meeting room. The second floor has an exercise center, a large multi-purpose room for arts, ceramics, and sewing, and a game room. The expansive hallways have areas to congregate and visit. The facility is in a beautiful woodland retreat setting, offering the opportunity to utilize the 180-acre Blunt Park for walking and outdoor exercise programs. The RAJSC will be open for tours starting Tuesday, February 6th. During this time, the café will be open for light snacks. Beginning on Monday, February 12th full lunch time meals will be served. Mayor Domenic J. Sarno stated, “I am thrilled to complete this project. My city team, along with the RAJ Senior Center Building Committee, has developed a first-class senior center for our residents. I felt it was very important to ensure that our residents enjoying their golden years have the opportunity to have an impressive facility to call their own. This complex will be one-stop shopping for senior services and I look forward to the expansion of programs and the opportunities that will be made available for our seniors.” “Ray is so deserving of this great honor,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “I found him to be a reliable partner during my time as Mayor and certainly as a reliable partner throughout my career in Congress. Being acknowledged for his legislative and personal skills through the naming of this new senior center for which so many individuals will benefit is a fitting tribute to his many years of public service. ” “I’m overwhelmed by the kind words of support I’ve received from both friends and residents throughout the city. Donna and I join our family in thanking the city for this recognition,” said Ray Jordan. “This senior center is a game changer, as a former legislator, I always made sure that I represented the interests of our seniors and to have the center named after me is a tremendous honor. It has everything ‘we’ seniors need and more. I’m delighted to be associated with this facility and extend my sincere thanks and appreciation to Mayor Sarno, his team, and the Park Commission for making this all happen.” “I am ecstatic for our seniors and I am grateful to the community for suggesting the complex be named in honor of a Springfield native son, Raymond A. Jordan. The opportunities are endless for our seniors with this facility and I look forward to collaborating with the Park Department and other agencies to continue on this path and develop exciting programming for our residents,” said Commissioner of Health and Human Services Helen Caulton-Harris. Brian Santaniello, Chairman of the Park Commission, added, “The Springfield Park Commission is proud to be part of the continuing effort to provide our seniors the opportunity to socialize, exercise, and participate in enjoyable activities in a safe and supporting environment. This facility gives seniors a setting to spend many hours with friends and share their interests with one another.” Director of Capital Asset Construction Peter Garvey said, “This facility will provide optimum programming opportunities. The state-of-the-art grand hall and multi-purpose rooms will be an asset to the seniors and the city as a whole. The building fits beautifully with the surrounding woodland park grounds.” “This project has been promised by many over the years so a special thank you is in order to Mayor Sarno on delivering this vital building for our community,” said Executive Director of PBRM Patrick Sullivan. He continued, “Helen and I would like to thank all the past committees over the years who toured senior centers in other cities and towns with us. It was from these visits that countless ideas were brought forward to create the design for our unique building. We look forward to collaborating with the Health and Human Services Department in serving seniors at the Raymond A. Jordan Senior Center at Blunt Park.” More About the Raymond A. Jordan Senior Center The RAJSC is the first facility in the history of the City of Springfield designed as a stand-alone building built solely for the purpose of serving the senior population. It is a state-of-the art facility designed to create a “retreat” environment where seniors in the city can experience a comfortable active setting while enjoying the picturesque tranquility of the outdoors. The retreat concept is expressed throughout the building. Every aspect of the design, including the public facilities, finishes, furnishings, fixtures, and equipment, was created with our seniors in mind. A tour of the RAJSC will reveal the use of indirect lighting producing an evenly distributed glow of ambient light throughout the center. The use of colors and textures throughout the interior creates a warm and welcoming environment. Of note are the trim and the window work that reflect the woods surrounding the facility. The Senior Center will offer organized instructional program areas for physical activities such as dance, yoga, fitness and aerobics. The RAJSC design includes space for activities such as card games, socializing, meetings and billiards. A multi-functional craft room can be adapted for sewing, dominos, watercolor arts and general crafts. The large multi-purpose room is served by a full kitchen and has the feel of a grand hall. The room will serve lunch on a daily basis, and can easily be transformed for ballroom dances, movies, and a variety of other programs. The RAJSC accommodates individual social interaction among the members as well as instructional group classes. A computer room offers training and internet access. The café provides another area to socialize independently from the rest of the facility. Off the main hallway, there is a quiet space for those who want to read, watch television, or just relax. The Raymond A. Jordan Senior Center has been created as a place for older adults to meet and obtain services and enjoy activities that reflect their experience and skills, respond to diverse needs and interests, enhance their dignity, support their independence and encourage their involvement in the community. On behalf of Mayor Domenic Sarno and the City of Springfield, we welcome our seniors to their new facility. We are all very proud of the new Raymond A. Jordan Senior Center and we look forward to creating joyous experiences and wonderful memories for our deserving seniors ###
02.02.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after President Trump authorized the release of the controversial classified memo written by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devon Nunes questioning the credibility and integrity of our nation’s top law enforcement and intelligence officials. “The release of the classified Nunes memo against the objections of the FBI and the Justice Department is reckless and unprecedented. I believe it is a partisan attempt by House Republicans to discredit both our nation’s top law enforcement officials and the investigation by Special Counsel Robert Mueller into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Even FBI Director Christopher Wray has expressed his grave concerns about the national security implications of making this document public. Our law enforcement and intelligence officials take an oath of loyalty to the Constitution, not the Executive Branch. Questioning their integrity and independence is deeply troubling for those who believe strongly in the fundamental principle of separation of powers. I am hopeful that today’s partisan actions by House Republicans will not distract Special Counsel Mueller for continuing his investigation into allegations of collusion by Russian government officials in the 2016 presidential campaign. The American people deserve to know the truth.” ##
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Following President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union Address Tuesday night, U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement. “It is important that President Trump raised the opioid epidemic issue this evening but it also amplifies the fact the Administration and Congress must do more to help Americans access necessary treatment for opioid use disorders. As I have said before, the opioid epidemic was declared a public health emergency in October but since then, there has been no action. We clearly have work to do this year. We must stop undermining the programs that provide coverage and treatment for those who need it and instead strengthen and improve access to care and coverage. “While the economy continues to grow, there are still many individuals in Massachusetts who are struggling to find decent work through no fault of their own. A strong economy can only be sustained by improved access to educational programs, especially on the community college and technical school level as we see a staggering number of employment vacancies in the skilled manufacturing field, especially here in New England. “The middle-class continues to struggle and the newly passed GOP tax bill will only make their lives harder. The legislation puts the wealthy and well-connected first, while forcing 86 million middle-class families to watch as their taxes go up. While President Trump continues to make a pledge for bipartisanship, it has proven to be an empty promise. I continue to stand at the ready to join my Republican colleagues to make real bipartisan changes that will help every American throughout every stage of their life. We simply cannot have an “America First” agenda that does not lift up all Americans from all corners of our country.” ##
01.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal sent a letter Thursday to Director Mick Mulvaney of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) asking for an update on the status of basic services such as water, telecommunications, and electricity on the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. “Now is the time to step up and support our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands as they continue to rebuild,” wrote Representative Neal. “As Americans, we pride ourselves when we unite in the wake of the unthinkable. Partisan politics has no role to play when human dignity and survival are on the line. After seeing the devastation and recovery efforts first hand, I can attest to the level of support needed for these efforts. The Administration’s funding request is woefully inadequate and the political gamesmanship of Republicans in Congress has prevented us from fulfilling our obligations to date. I look to you as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to come to the table in good faith for our fellow citizens." Representative Neal recently travelled to Puerto Rico as part of a trip with other members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation. He wrote about his visit to the island and the need for immediate and vigorous assistance from FEMA in a guest column that was published this week in the Daily Hampshire Gazette. A copy of the letter to Director Mulvaney can be found here. ##
01.26.2018	Springfield, MA – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal announced Friday that Hampden County Sheriff Nick Cocchi would be his guest to Tuesday’s State of the Union Address in Washington, D.C.. “I am thrilled that Sheriff Cocchi will be able to join me at the State of the Union Address,” said Representative Neal. “Sheriff Cocchi has been out front on the opioid epidemic and I have been happy to have him as a partner as we look for ways in which to curb this problem that plagues so many people we know and love. President Trump declared the opioid epidemic a public health emergency in October – and the only thing his Administration and Congress have to show for it is a report, no action. Congress and the Administration simply are not doing enough to help Americans access necessary treatment for opioid use disorders.” Hampden County Sheriff Nick Cocchi said, “It is a great honor to be attending the State of the Union Address next week as a guest of Congressman Neal. We have worked closely together to help address the opioid epidemic in Hamden County and I’m hopeful this important issue will be raised in the president’s speech before Congress. I look forward to being in the House Gallery next Tuesday to watch this annual event which has its origins in our Constitution.” President Trump’s first State of the Union Address is scheduled to take place Tuesday, January 30 at 9pm. ##
01.24.2018	BOSTON, MA – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal joined International Vice President of the Teamsters Union John Murphy and members of Teamsters Local 122 for a press conference touting the benefits of H.R. 4444, the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act. “I introduced this legislation because I have been a longtime leader on retirement issues and I wanted to help address the multiemployer pension crisis,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Hard-working Americans who planned their whole lives for a financially secure retirement should not have those assurances taken away through no fault of their own. These are people who year after year chose to contribute to their pensions instead of taking a wage increase. It is critical that we address this crisis and help these retirees whose retirements are now at risk by no fault of their own.” This legislation aims at financially supporting troubled multiemployer pension plans so they don’t fail. The bill would create the Pension Rehabilitation Administration as an agency within the U.S. Treasury Department. The PRA would sell Treasury- issued bonds in the open market to large investors such as financial firms. The PRA would then lend the money from the sale of the bonds to the financially troubled pension plans. For plans that need additional assistance, PBGC would provide financial assistance to make up the difference. A related bill has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), S. 2147, the Butch Lewis Act of 2017. “It is imperative that Congress pass the Butch Lewis Act of 2017,” said John Murphy, Secretary-Treasurer of Teamsters Local 122 in Boston and International Vice President of the Teamsters Union. “This legislation offers a real solution to the growing pension crisis. Rep. Neal and Sen. Brown are fighting for every active and retired worker that could see their hard-earned retirement destroyed through no fault of their own.” “There are hundreds of thousands of Teamster active and retired members that could see their retirement security decimated if this legislation isn’t passed,” said Joe Zuffante, retired Teamster from Arlington, Mass. and former president of Local 122. “This is an epidemic that will roll across the country unless Congress acts now. I’d like to thank Rep. Neal for his leadership in moving this legislation forward.” This bill has currently been referred to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Appropriations, as well as the Committee on Ways and Means. Full text of the bill can be found here. ##
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – For the fifth time in 30 years, Republicans have shut down the federal government. As the nation braces for the Trump Shutdown, Representative Richard E. Neal called out Republicans for failing to allow a bipartisan solution to keep government open and meet the needs of the American people. “Republicans have forgotten their responsibility to the American people,” said Representative Neal “They control the House, the Senate and the White House, but they couldn’t collaborate to do something as basic as keeping government open. Now, Republicans’ incompetence has endangered our economy, hurt our communities, and dangerously deprived the military of the certainty they need to keep our nation safe.” A government shutdown has stark consequences for the American people. A report issued after the 2013 Republican government shutdown detailed many of the impacts of shutdown, including: Stopping the progress on reducing the massive backlog of veterans’ disability claims; Furloughing 2/3rds of the Centers for Disease Control and 3/4ths of the National Institutes of Health; Severely limiting flu season surveillance and monitoring; Delaying life-saving FDA food safety inspections; Disrupting 1.2 million private-sector loans to individuals and small businesses; Delaying billions in tax refunds; Shuttering Head Start centers serving 6,300 children; Destroying 120,000 private-sector jobs and furloughed government workers for a combined 6.6 million days. “Congress still faces a huge list of urgent, overdue and overwhelmingly bipartisan business,” said Representative Neal. “There’s no need for a Trump Shutdown. We need the Republicans who control the House and the Senate to show some leadership and work to find common ground to meet the needs of the American people. Democrats will continue to do our jobs and push for real action for veterans, children, workers, seniors, communities ravaged by opioids, and families worried about how the Trump Shutdown impacts them.” “My office will continue to do whatever we can to help local families and businesses navigate the Trump Shutdown,” Representative Neal added, noting that his three offices in Springfield, Pittsfield, and Washington would remain open during normal business hours to assist constituents in the wake of the shutdown. ##
01.17.2018	Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this important hearing about earmarks. Earmarks for decades provided critical funding for infrastructure and other projects in our Congressional districts. I hope these hearings lead to a thoughtful, transparent approach to future Congressional spending. Congress has the power of the purse as specified in Article 1 of the Constitution and we need to protect that power. The current Massachusetts first Congressional district and former second Congressional district have benefited directly from earmarks. For example, they were the key to rehabilitating Union Station in downtown Springfield. It is now once again a transportation hub in Springfield and the region. In addition, it is a short and long term catalyst for economic growth. The Federal Courthouse in Springfield was also significantly funded by earmarks. It houses courts and other important federal offices that are central to the community. And the Southbridge Defense Center provides services for the region and houses numerous businesses. These are just three examples about how earmarks have positively impacted my district and the surrounding area. And all these bring a common outcome—jobs. Jobs for those who built and rehabilitated the structures, but also for those who work in and around them. Other aspects of our communities that are positively impacted by the use of earmarks include: those who defend our community and nation, not-for-profits, and educators. The current funding process takes away power from the legislative branch and the American people and instead focuses unequally on the executive branch. In addition, it puts the power with larger cities and overlooks cities like Springfield that greatly benefit from funds that spur economic development. I encourage our colleagues to continue these discussions in an open and bipartisan manner to find a better approach to earmarks that provides reform, transparency and halts abuse.
01.17.2018	Madam Chairwoman, I am glad that the Oversight Subcommittee is holding a hearing on the opioid issue as it relates to Medicare. Although overdose rates are highest for people 25 to 54, this public health emergency also affects Medicare beneficiaries. Everyone in this room has a family member or knows someone directly impacted by the opioid epidemic. In my home state of Massachusetts, there were 2,094 confirmed opioid-related overdose deaths in 2016. Although overdose rates are highest for people 25 to 54, this public health emergency also affects Medicare beneficiaries. According to an Altarum November 2017 report, the economic burden from opioids was estimated to be $95 billion in 2016, $21.4 billion of which was attributed to health care services (direct and indirect costs) and $55.6 billion to lost earnings and productivity. The statistics are shocking. In 2016, one-third of Medicare Part D beneficiaries filled a prescription opioid. One third of beneficiaries. This number is too high--we need to explore better ways to manage chronic pain. More alarming is that nearly 70,000 beneficiaries received “extreme” amounts of opioids that year. Whether that is due to abuse, misuse, or addiction, we need to get a handle on what is happening. In my home state of Massachusetts, there were 2,094 confirmed opioid-related overdose deaths in 2016. Our witnesses today have a number of recommendations for ways Medicare can better monitor and prevent abuse. I hope that we can work in a bipartisan manner to urge the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid (CMS) to move quickly to implement them. Congress and the Administration simply are not doing enough to help Americans access necessary treatment for opioid use disorders. President Trump declared the opioid epidemic a public health emergency in October – and the only thing his Administration and Congress have to show for it is a report, no action. The emergency declaration expires next week, but nothing has progressed. Yet another missed opportunity for positive action. The most significant step that has been taken in recent years to stem the tide of the opioid crisis has been to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act to low-income working Americans who previously could not afford insurance. The Medicaid expansion has provided millions of previously uninsured adults with access to health insurance which includes coverage for substance abuse and mental health services. In addition, other essential health coverage benefits have enabled them to seek screening and treatment services that previously were prohibitively costly. Last year, my Republican colleagues tried to enact $800 billion in cuts to Medicaid, eliminating the coverage that millions recently gained. And the Trump Administration is working to make coverage significantly more difficult. Another attempt to keep Americans from the treatment they need. This is an ill-advised course of action, and will exacerbate the challenges those in need of treatment are facing. For Medicare – the specific topic of today’s hearing - we need to look to beneficiaries’ ability to access treatment, as oftentimes providers (or treatment options) aren’t available to meet the need. We know that there are significant gaps in coverage and access under Medicare. For example, Medicare does not cover Outpatient Treatment Programs (OTP) that provide comprehensive opioid addiction treatments nor does Medicare cover methadone for addiction, which is often the treatment of choice for longer-term addicts. We clearly have work to do this year. We must stop undermining the programs that provide coverage and treatment for those who need it and instead strengthen and improve access to care and coverage. Our witnesses today will provide suggestions for items that may help at the margins, which we should wholeheartedly embrace. However we must not lose sight of the bigger picture as well. Thank you. Watch the statement here. ##
01.12.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement after yesterday’s racist comments from President Donald Trump at a meeting regarding immigration: “President Trump should be ashamed of his comments regarding the people of Haiti, El Salvador and the African nations. His hateful remarks should be condemned in the strongest possible terms. As we prepare to honor Martin Luther King, Jr. this weekend there is no place in our society for this divisive, insensitive and hurtful language.” ##
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR), today questioned whether the Trump Administration is wrongfully pressuring the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to produce 2018 withholding tables that would result in systematic underwithholding of federal taxes from taxpayer earnings. In a letter to Acting IRS Commissioner and Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy David Kautter, Wyden and Neal asked about interactions between Trump officials and the IRS regarding the development of the tables, which are expected to be released in the near future. If an undue amount of taxes are underwithheld by employers now, millions of hardworking Americans will owe taxes next April instead of receiving a tax refund. “With this tax law, congressional Republicans and President Trump have tried to sell the American people a bad bill of goods that disproportionately benefits big corporations and the most well-off and well-connected,” said Neal. “Ranking Member Wyden and I are working to prevent the Trump Administration from manipulating hardworking Americans’ tax bills to exploit the middle class for political gain.” “The Trump administration has tried at every turn to con the middle class into buying a tax scam that showers multinational corporations and the politically powerful with massive breaks,” Wyden said. “I’m proud to work with Ranking Member Neal to hold this administration accountable for any attempts to play shell games with middle-class wages and to keep millions of hardworking Americans from getting hit with unfair tax bills.” Neal and Wyden sent a separate letter to Government Accountability Office (GAO) Comptroller General Gene Dodaro requesting that GAO serve as an independent arbiter to analyze the 2018 withholding tables and determine whether they will result in systematic underwithholding. The letter to Acting IRS Commissioner and Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy Kautter can be found here. The letter to GAO Comptroller General Dodaro can be found here. ###
01.05.2018	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in strong opposition the Trump Administration’s plan to open nearly the entire U.S. coastline to offshore drilling by oil and gas companies, including previously protected waters. The proposal would overturn a permanent ban on offshore drilling in much of the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic oceans announced by President Barack Obama in December 2016.Both Democratic and Republican governors of costal states including New Jersey, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, California, Washington and Oregon have also expressed their concern about the decision to lift the offshore drilling ban. “I am strongly opposed to this reckless plan to put our pristine oceans, coastlines, wetlands and estuaries at risk to offshore oil and gas drilling. Our oceans are national treasures that need to be preserved and protected for future generations. Like most Americans, I still remember the Deep Water Horizon spill which dumped 210,000 gallons of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. Eight years later, the people in the Gulf region are still dealing with the long-tern effects of what has been called America’s worst environmental disaster. We cannot afford to have history repeat itself off the New England coastline, or anywhere in the Atlantic, Pacific or Artic oceans. Keeping our environment clean and safe should not be a partisan issue. And that is why I support the effort by Democrats and Republicans to stop this ill-advised plan to open nearly all U.S. coastal waters to off shore drilling. Not only are the oceans a great source of recreation, but they are a significant driver of economic growth on both coasts. The tourism, fishing, housing and aquaculture industries generate billions of dollars each year, but they depend on a clean and healthy ocean ecosystem. I believe this risky proposal would harm local economies, jeopardize military training and threaten our environment,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) issued the following statement after the Department of Labor issued a proposed rule to roll back health coverage protections by expanding association health plans: “Today, the Trump Administration took further steps to undermine the health and well-being of the American people. The Department of Labor proposed a new rule threatening health coverage for workers and owners of small businesses by allowing the sale of plans with no guarantee of comprehensive coverage for pre-existing conditions. This proposed rule comes less than a month after congressional Republicans passed a tax bill that paid for tax cuts for billionaires and corporations by cutting health care for millions of middle-class Americans. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the GOP tax bill will increase premiums by 10 percent and leave 13 million Americans without health insurance over the next 10 years. “We are discouraged the administration and Congressional Republicans continue to go to great lengths to undermine the law – no matter the pain caused to millions of Americans. Rather than undermining health coverage for millions of Americans, they should make good on their promise to work on real, bipartisan solutions to improve our health care system and build on the progress of the Affordable Care Act.” For more information about association health plans, click here and here. ###
12.28.2017	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, Richard E. Neal, issued the following statement after receiving an explanation from the IRS regarding pre-payments of property taxes under the new limitations on the state and local tax deductions. "Last week, I sent a letter to the IRS asking for clarification on pre-payments of property taxes as it relates to the new limitations on the state and local tax deduction under federal law,” said Ranking Member Neal. “Due to constituent interest, I asked the IRS how they would apply the new law to taxpayers who are considering pre-paying their 2018 property taxes before the end of 2017. Acting Commissioner David J. Kautter responded to my inquiry today and the IRS issued an advisory with guidance. The advisory generally provides that pre-paid real property taxes may be deductible in 2017 if assessed and paid in 2017. As there is still a tremendous amount of uncertainty around this issue, individual taxpayers should consider visiting IRS.gov so they are aware of what options are available to them." A copy of the Neal letter can be found here. A copy of the Kautter letter can be found here. A link to the IRS advisory is here. ##
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Republican tax bill conference report: "Today, Republicans passed legislation that will raise taxes on 86 million middle class families, add $2.3 trillion to the federal debt, worsen economic inequality, and take health insurance away from 13 million Americans while raising premiums by 10 percent for everyone else. Our children and grandchildren will be forced to foot the bill for tax cuts given to those at the very top and big corporations. This legislation will have long-term, wide-ranging negative impacts on Americans’ economic security. “With this harmful bill, Republicans are just getting started. Speaker Ryan plans to fund these regressive cuts by slashing benefits like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security that Americans have earned through years of hard work. Democrats will fight to protect these programs, and we’ll do everything we can to lower families’ premiums in the face of President Trump’s attacks on healthcare. “This tax legislation was a missed opportunity to achieve meaningful, positive change for middle class families. But despite this setback, Democrats will continue to put the middle class first and work to create a more secure and prosperous future for generations to come.” ###
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement on the Republican tax legislation’s conference report: "Today, behind closed doors, Republicans approved an agreement for a tax plan that until now they have refused to share with the American public. One can only assume they were being this secretive because the bill raises taxes on millions of middle-class families while cutting corporations’ taxes, explodes the deficit by roughly $2 trillion, strips health insurance from millions of Americans, and prompts billions of dollars of cuts to Medicare. “The GOP have seemed to accomplish the impossible. They developed tax cut legislation that has been rejected by two-thirds of the American people because the public sees this for what it is – a giveaway to the well-off and well-connected that the middle class will be forced to foot the bill for down the road.” ###
12.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Richard E. Neal issued the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission voted to dismantle the landmark net neutrality protections: “I am deeply disappointed by the FCC’s decision to repeal net neutrality. This move undermines and reverses consumer protective regulations already in place that allow for a level playing field in the e-commerce marketplace. I have heard from constituents across the First Congressional District of Massachusetts and the overwhelming majority of them are worried about what this will do to the guarantee of an open, free Internet. Today’s dangerous rules have potential to drown consumers with higher costs and less choice. This is detrimental to our entrepreneurs and small businesses who are trying to succeed. I fully intend to support Representative Mike Doyle’s resolution to overturn today’s decision using the authority in the Congressional Review Act.” ##
12.13.2017	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Chairman, in light of last night’s election, I do not believe we should be holding today’s meeting. In fact, I believe it is imperative that we respect the will of the people of Alabama and delay any further action on this tax bill until Senator-elect Jones can be seated. This situation is not unprecedented. As recently as 2010, during debate on the ACA, my state of Massachusetts elected Scott Brown in a special election to succeed Sen Ted Kennedy. Following that election, we heard strong words from then Minority Leader McConnell. He stated emphatically, "I think the message of the moment is that the American people, all across the country, are asking us, even in the most liberal state, Massachusetts, to stop this healthcare bill." What did Democrats do? We waited and respected the will of the people of Massachusetts. Quite simply, even when it was hard and against our own politics, Democrats did the right thing and allowed Senator Brown to cast a vote on final passage of the ACA. I would hope that the Republicans would do the same today. Turning the tax bill, the Ryan-McConnell tax package is a bad deal. This legislation raises taxes on millions of middle-class families, increases the national debt by more than $2.3 trillion dollars, and eliminates deductions that help Americans afford to go to college, buy a home, and pay for medical expenses. From kids with disabilities, to students pursuing a higher education, to seniors with Alzheimer’s, this bill punishes Americans at every stage of life. And as the New York Times reported this weekend, given the Republicans shift in how they’ll tax income, the Tax Code will for the first time substantially punish the wage earner while providing massive benefit to corporations, shareholders, and partners. We can do better. Democrats’ focus in tax reform is providing ALL middle-class Americans with a tax cut – unlike the Republicans’ bill, which does the opposite and actually increases taxes on the middle class. The Republicans also claim that their bill helps small businesses but I’m hearing from business owners back home in Springfield who are excluded from any tax relief. We also must take into account the unique circumstances for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. They just suffered terrible devastation and are still in the process of rebuilding and putting the pieces of their lives back together after Hurricane Maria. The last thing they need is to get hit again. Finally, the Republicans have shown their cards – they’re going after Social Security, Medicare and Welfare next. They argue we can no longer afford those programs. I’d argue that we can’t afford this $2.3 trillion tax cut for the wealthy and corporations. The Ryan-McConnell tax legislation does not put the middle class first. American businesses and middle-class families deserve better. ###
12.13.2017	Thank you for joining us today. Today’s hearing is the first – and likely the only – hearing on HR 1, the Ryan-McConnell tax legislation. And so I thank our witnesses for being here today. Let me start by providing some historical perspective. In January 2001, when President Bush took over from President Clinton, CBO estimated the total budget surplus for 2002 to 2011 would be $5.6 trillion. But what actually happened during that period? The federal government ran deficits that totaled $6.1 trillion. What happened when President Clinton left office? In 2001, Republicans cut taxes by $1.3 trillion; in 2003, by $1 trillion; and in 2005, there was the repatriation tax holiday. Each time, like today, the Republicans promised job growth. However, they took us to the casino each time without a win. So here we go again. The Treasury Department issued a one page analysis of the Republicans’ tax bill on Monday citing 2.9 percent growth. That’s not in line with what we’re hearing from any main stream economists – and fortunately for us, we have two of them with us today. The reality is tax cuts do not pay for themselves. Even taking into account growth, JCT’s macroeconomic analysis finds that the Republican tax bill will still cost over $1 trillion. And frankly, even the Treasury Department’s one pager also concludes that tax cuts don’t pay for themselves. I should also note that the 1981 Reagan tax cuts did not pay for themselves either. Like today, they were assuming future spending cuts, which as we know never occurred. We should learn from these past experiences. We have a million new veterans who we need to care for – and we’re lucky to have a veteran with us today – and our military is committed around the world. We also have thousands of Baby Boomers retiring every day who will begin receiving Social Security and Medicare benefits. We can’t afford another gamble with the Republicans’ tax plans. Let me conclude by saying that the bottom line is the Ryan-McConnell tax package is a bad deal. It’s a bad deal for the 36 million middle class families who will see their taxes go up; it’s a bad deal for the 13 million Americans who will no longer have healthcare coverage; and it will be an even worse deal for our children and grandchildren who the Republicans have decided will foot the bill for this irresponsible proposal. We can do better. I would now like to yield to gentle lady from California, our distinguished Democratic Leader, Ms. Pelosi, for her opening statement. ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement calling for consideration of the tax bill to be delayed until Senator-elect Doug Jones (D-AL) is seated: “Last night the people of Alabama spoke out against the Republican agenda. They chose policies that support working families, grow the economy, strengthen our healthcare system and lift up those aspiring to reach the middle-class over policies that reward the well-off and well-connected and further rig the system against American families. Alabamans deserve to have the representative they chose, not a political appointee, in place to vote on their behalf, particularly on a matter as critical as a tax bill that will affect every family, small business and worker in this country. “This situation is not unprecedented. In 2010, during debate on the Affordable Care Act, my home state of Massachusetts elected Scott Brown in a special election to succeed Sen Ted Kennedy. Following that election, Democrats delayed final action on the ACA until Senator Brown could be seated. Quite simply, we did the right thing even when it wasn't in our best political interests. And, let us not forget the sham of an argument that was made by Senator McConnell when he, for more than a year, left a seat on the United States Supreme Court empty, stating simply that we should wait on the outcome of the presidential election to ensure that we were respecting the will of the American people. Senator McConnell doesn’t get to have it both ways. Just as Senator McConnell wanted to respect the will of voters in Massachusetts in 2010 and the will of the American people in 2016, he must now respect the will of the voters in Alabama and stop consideration of the Republican tax bill until Senator-elect Jones is seated.” ###
12.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal joined House Democrats, teachers, and healthcare workers Thursday for a press conference highlighting the negative effects the GOP tax bill would have on the island of Puerto Rico. The GOP tax bills would place a 20 percent excise tax on goods and services that flow between American businesses with operations in Puerto Rico and the United States, resulting in tens of thousands of individuals out of work at a time when the island is trying to rebuild. “Many times now, I’ve called this legislation a missed opportunity,” said Representative Neal. “It’s a missed opportunity in that the tax bill was a chance for Congress to help Puerto Rico get on solid economic footing. Instead, it’s clear that very little attention was paid to the unique circumstances U.S. territories face. Puerto Rico has just suffered terrible devastation – folks there are still in the process of rebuilding and putting the pieces of their lives back together after Hurricane Maria. The last thing they need is to get hit again. The pain that Republicans’ tax bill will cause the people of Puerto Rico – who have already endured so much – is yet another reason why Congress should reject this legislation.” Neal is a lead democratic negotiator on the GOP Tax Bill Conference Committee. The full press conference can be watched here. ##
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee Richard Neal was named yesterday by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve on a conference committee of the House and Senate versions of the GOP Tax Bill. “I am happy to have been chosen by Leader Pelosi to be a conferee to this GOP Tax Bill conference,” said Ranking Member Neal. “I believe this bill is a bad deal for millions of Americans, particularly those in the middle-class. The legislation puts the wealthy and well-connected first, while forcing 36 million middle-class families to watch as their taxes go up. That’s simply not what the American people asked us to do and it is not something that I can support. This should have been a debate that included both parties. I have been ready and willing to work with my Republican counterparts on this issue from the start and I look forward to doing so in the coming days. ” Neal is one of five Democratic House members to be named to this committee. ##
11.20.2017	Springfield, MA – Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, Congressman Richard E. Neal , Chief Development Officer Kevin Kennedy, and Armando Feliciano, Chairman of the Springfield Redevelopment Authority, were at Union Station this morning with Peter Picknelly, President of Peter Pan Bus Lines, this morning to announce that Peter Pan has finalized their lease to move their executive offices to Union Station. Mayor Sarno stated, “This is a key tenant announcement that will spur even more movement into our Union Station. To Peter Picknelly and Peter Pan, their continued belief and investment in their hometown is unquestioned and deeply appreciated.” “Thank you to Peter Picknelly for continuing to demonstrate his faith in the City of Springfield,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “This is another great announcement for both the intermodal transportation center and the City as a whole. I am happy to welcome Peter Pan to Springfield Union Station.” "Peter Pan is pleased to be an integral part of Union Station and we look forward to making it our new home,” said Peter Picknelly. Peter Pan’s approximately 100 employees will occupy the entire third floor of Union Station, bringing total occupancy of the facility to 65%. Peter Pan buses have been operating from Union Station since early September of this year, while offices have remained at their original headquarters at 1776 Main Street. “The SRA is thrilled to have Peter Pan Bus Company as the lead office tenant at Union Station. Peter Pan Bus Company not only has Springfield roots but gives so much back to the city and the residents of this area. Welcome Home,” said Armando Feliciano, Chairman of the Springfield Redevelopment Authority. Kevin Kennedy said, “Congratulations and welcome to Peter Picknelly and his entire team at Peter Pan Bus Lines. We are pleased that Union Station will be their corporate home. We now have leased 65% of the available square footage in the four months that Union Station has been open.” The lease agreement has a potential for 20 years with a five year initial term with options. The lease is valued at $1,600,000 for the initial term. The SRA along with Union Station’s management company Appleton will continue to work with other interested tenants for the remaining office and retail space in the building. ###
11.16.2017	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to “H.R. 1 Percent.” I believe this bill is a bad deal for millions of Americans, particularly those in the middle-class. The legislation puts the wealthy and well-connected first, while forcing 36 million middle-class families to watch as their taxes go up. That’s simply not what the American people asked us to do and it is not something that I can support. In 2001, Republicans cut taxes by $1.3 trillion; in 2003, by $1 trillion; and in 2005, there was the repatriation tax holiday. Each time, they promised job growth. However, they took us to the casino each time without a win. Why do we think we’ll have a different outcome here? Maybe – but more likely maybe not. And yet the Republicans have based all of their growth projections on the premise of maybe. The Republicans tell us that maybe we’ll have strong economic growth as a result of this legislation – they talk about 3, 4, 5 – even 6 percent growth – even though not one main stream economist is making a similar assertion. They also tell us that maybe we’ll see increased investment, higher wage growth and more jobs. But on the other hand, maybe there will be another recession. maybe there will be an economic downturn. And maybe interest rates will go up increasing borrowing costs. We have a million new veterans who we need to care for and our military is committed around the world. We also have thousands of Baby Boomers retiring every day who will begin receiving Social Security and Medicare benefits. Maybe is not enough. We can’t afford another gamble. Since my first day as Ranking Member of this committee, I have called on my colleagues to come together to work on real reform for real people. I agree with my Republican colleagues that our tax system is too complicated, contains far too many loopholes and holds back American businesses competing in the global economy. However, I do not agree that in enacting tax reform we should be giving even more benefits to the well-off and well-connected with the hopes that it might trickle down. There is not a single, respected economist in this country that will argue that tax cuts pay for themselves. History has proven it just doesn’t work. The legislation that we are acting on today lets the American people down at every step of their life-- from birth through retirement. It fails to provide the needed improvements to the tax code that could assist the hopeful young family trying to keep their head above water; the student trying to do the right thing by getting an education; and the factory worker at the end of a long career just hoping to have enough left over to retire with dignity. Democrats believe that instead of pulling down the ladder of opportunity for those in the middle-class, and the millions who aspire to it, we should be expanding it to make sure that everyone has a fair shot. Republicans have produced a deeply flawed bill that will hurt the teacher who spends his own money to buy school supplies for their students; students trying to responsibly pay back their student loans; the wife trying to afford her husband’s Alzheimer’s care; and the janitor who wants to retire with dignity so he can spoil his grandchildren. We can no longer accept status quo in Washington. The American Family should not be forced to continue watching as the rich get richer and they fall further and further behind. Our country cannot afford to only care about deficits and debt when Democrats are in the Oval office. We must break this cycle. We should set this bill aside and start again, this time in a bipartisan manner, on a new approach to tax reform that provides real reform to real people and gets our economy moving again. Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is this bill is a bad deal for the American middle-class. Therefore, I oppose this legislation. I reserve the balance of my time. (Watch here) ##
11.15.2017	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to “H.R. 1 Percent.” The bill before us today is a bad deal for millions of Americans, particularly those in the Middle Class. The legislation puts the wealthy and well-connected first, while forcing 36 million American families to watch as their taxes go up. That’s simply not what the American people asked us to do and it is not something that I can support. Let me walk through some of the provisions in the bill that are bad for the middle class. First, the bill scales back the tax benefit of buying a new home by lowering the cap on the mortgage interest deduction to $500,000, inevitably lowering home values. HR 1 also repeals the new markets tax credit and historic tax credit, two programs that have had huge success in revitalizing struggling communities in all of our districts. And the bill beats up on the municipal bond market by, for example, eliminating the ability to issue private activity bonds on a tax-exempt basis – an issue, I should note that I have championed for many years. Private activity bonds also are a key for financing affordable housing. And so I worry about the impact all of these changes will have on the housing market. The Republicans’ bill also eliminates several deductions and exclusions that help students pay for their college education, including the deduction for interest on student loans. This at a time when students have over $1 trillion in student loan debt – and they impose a new tax on universities and colleges. They also repeal the above-the-line deduction for teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses. In fact, the Republicans’ plan would directly cut over $65 billion in aid for students and teachers. The Republicans also create a “health tax” or “Alzheimer’s tax” by repealing the medical expense deduction. This change basically scraps a families’ ability to receive financial relief when dealing with a serious medical condition. And of course, the Republicans’ bill also forces families to pay taxes twice on their income by eliminating their ability to write off their state and local taxes except for real property taxes up to $10,000. Contrast all of this with the tax cuts for the wealthy. For example, HR 1 repeals the estate after six, providing a large benefit to the Paris Hiltons of the world and not the Conrad Hiltons. And the bill eliminates the alternative minimum tax, which today only impacts 4.5 million taxpayers. Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is this bill is bad for the American middle-class. Therefore, I oppose this legislation. I reserve the balance of my time. Watch here. ###
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today announced a bipartisan agreement relating to Medicare “extenders,” policies that expire unless Congress acts. Congress last extended these policies in the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA) in 2015. “This agreement extends, or makes permanent with reforms, numerous expiring Medicare payment policies that will help provide continuity and certainty for both the patients who rely on them and the providers who serve America's seniors,” said Chairman Brady. “I appreciate Ranking Member Neal’s commitment to reach a bipartisan deal, and I look forward to working with our colleagues in the House and Senate to take action this year.” “I’m pleased that Chairman Brady and I have been able to come to an agreement that addresses Medicare extenders in a fair way,” said Ranking Member Neal. “I believe this compromise will provide an important stepping stone as Congress moves forward in addressing this issue before the end of the year.” Background: Earlier this month, Congress announced a bipartisan bicameral agreement to make the exceptions process for the cap on therapy services permanent. This bipartisan Ways and Means agreement includes this policy and advances a number of other extenders, as well. Today’s bipartisan Ways and Means announcement includes both the extension of current policies as well as proposed offsets. The majority of the Medicare extenders expire at the end of the year. For provisions such as the hospital extenders that expired at the end of September, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) can appropriately adjust payments to ensure these modifications are accounted for in final provider rates. The contours of the bipartisan agreement are described below: Medicare Extender Policies. The bipartisan Ways and Means Medicare extenders agreement provides either a two- or five-year extension of the various MACRA policies. In general, longer-term extensions are coupled with policy changes to improve efficiencies in the Medicare program. Two-year straight extension of the Medicare Dependent Hospital Program and the Low-Volume Adjustment Program. Five-year straight extension of the Home Health rural add-on. Permanent extension of exceptions process for Medicare with the repeal of the therapy caps (previously announced bipartisan agreement). Two-year straight extension of the Medicare geographic payment cost index for physician payments. Five-year extension of the Ground Ambulance Add-Ons and ground ambulance payment modifications, as reported by Ways and Means. Five-year reauthorization of special needs plans (SNPs), as reported by Ways and Means. Two-year extension of the State Health Insurance Assistance Programs (SHIP). Two-year extension of funding for consensus based entity work on quality measures. Medicare Extender Policy Offsets. The bipartisan agreement includes a number of offsets that were reported out of the Ways and Means Committee. In addition, in an effort to promote efficiency in the Medicare program, the agreement looks to work by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to inform additional offset policies. Medicare Advantage telehealth, as reported by the Ways and Means Committee. Medicare Advantage termination authority, as reported by the Ways and Means Committee in the 114th Congress. Extension of the current law policy related to misvalued codes for physician services. Non-emergency transportation payment modification reduction related to end stage renal dialysis transportation, as reported by the Ways and Means Committee. Medicare Improvement Fund rescission. Modifications to skilled nursing facility payment, including MedPAC recommendations and building blocks to payment reform. Modifications to home health agency payment, including MedPAC recommendations and building blocks to payment reform. Modification of payments for critical access hospital swing beds, including HHS OIG recommendations and regulatory relief. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, after the U.S. House of Representatives voted on the National Defense Authorization Act, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement. “Today I voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. As one of the conferees chosen by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to deliberate the final version of the NDAA, I did so with the interests of central and western Massachusetts in mind. Here in the First Congressional District, there are numerous military bases and companies whose success helps drive the economy of the region. It is vital to ensure that large employers such as Westover Air Reserve Base, Barnes Air National Guard Base, Warren Pumps and General Dynamics, to name just a few, have the adequate support from the federal government to continue to do their work supporting our country on the national and international level. I am confident that this act will be beneficial to these vital agencies like these ones in my district and similar ones across the country.” ##
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the Republican tax legislation passed out of committee: "The legislation that advanced today will hurt Americans at every stage of their lives. Students trying to pay back the loans they took out to afford college; teachers buying classroom supplies with money from their own pockets; veterans looking to earn a good living after putting their lives on the line for our nation; working folks struggling to save for a secure retirement; and aging Americans suffering from chronic illnesses will all be hit with new expenses and face higher barriers under the Republicans’ tax bill. As Democrats repeatedly pointed out this week, corporations will keep many of the same benefits middle-class families are losing. “Democrats offered dozens of amendments to make this legislation less disastrous for middle-class families. Though Republicans praised many of these measures’ merits, they still opposed each and every one. “From the beginning of this process, I sought open, bipartisan debate to achieve real reform for real people. Instead, Republicans crafted a bill behind closed doors, without a single hearing, and then substantially changed the measure twice while it was under committee consideration this week. After such a secretive, rushed process, it’s no surprise that the resulting legislation is a bad deal that raises taxes on millions of middle-class workers to finance massive cuts for those at the top. “We will continue to fight this middle-class tax hike when it reaches the House floor. Democrats want to expand opportunity for Americans so that they can afford to cover their medical expenses, buy a home, pursue an education, and retire comfortably. We are committed to a fairer path forward that prioritizes the middle class and invigorates our economy.” ##
11.09.2017	Washington, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal today delivered the following remarks at the Ways and Means Committee Markup in opposition to H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: (Remarks as delivered) “Mr. Chairman. I think that we can conclude, as we've attempted to address the financial infrastructure of the country, that this process at best has been inartful, and at worst indefensible. After four days, not one democratic amendment has passed. When you look at H.R. 1, it contributes to complexity after having been advertised as the avenue to simplicity. It's harmful to the homeowner, it's harmful to the homebuilder. It's harmful of the municipal investor and those that are willing to take risks. It adds 2.3 trillion to the national debt -- $2.3 trillion to the national debt. We've had this argument now for days about how it is guaranteed that this will put us north of 3% growth. Guaranteed. “We could have used this time for the following purpose. To discuss simplicity. To discuss investment. And not just investment in finance, but investment in human capital. Which is the surest path to address the labor participation rate in America today. One of the challenges that we face is the following. Technology has changed the workplace. Skill set has changed the workplace. Two million men and women in America have an opiate drug addiction, who are home playing video games in the afternoon rather than in the workplace. Coupled with the fact the opportunity existed for us to talk about an investment in community colleges, an investment for internship programs, and for all of us in this room today and viewing, an investment in vocational education to address the job shortfall in America, which the department of labor this week said was north of six million available jobs. Eighteen-thousand precision manufacturing jobs in New England go unanswered every single day. One million tech jobs across the country go unanswered every single day. “Instead we came to a conclusion and then went out to seek the documentation. The changes occurred every day in this proposal and shift largely based upon news accounts. Every time there was a story that said the Republican majority's numbers didn't add up, they ran back to make adjustments in the numbers. Not in the policy. So we're being told that we can borrow $1.5 trillion based upon the premise that maybe it will generate 3% growth over the next decade. What happens if that doesn't occur? You cannot find many mainstream economists in America that say we're going north of 2.1% or 2.2% and arguably they say it will occur likely in the first year or so and then we are going to revert to the numbers that I spoke of earlier. “And not to miss the following, Mr. Chairman: this is about long-term demographic trends in America as well. We've got to address that issue of immigration reform and tie it to the whole notion of job growth and investment in the workplace. We had an opportunity to do. I’m pained that we could highlight - as we attempted to do the genius of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and then rush this through. Even though it was done in daylight. It's still rushed through. “We gave some thoughtful commentary and pretty good amendments on our side and we wanted to fully participate and despite what some have said on the other side, I can guarantee you this: after 25 years on this Committee, I did not start from the premise that we should try to kill this bill. I looked at a tax system in America that is inefficient and underproductive. Yes, there is a legitimate argument about international competition that the country needs to address. So all of the good ideas and notions and thoughts that we had on our side were dismissed. I have never participated in a markup in all these years in the house where I was told more that there was a genuine affection for me. I was highly regarded. They really loved my amendment. They thought it could be considered. But we're not going vote for it. And the trouble with that is that that dismisses again what we could have done on so many of these amendments, some of which are really helpful. “As support begins to peel off, let me predict what's going to happen. We saw these changes over these four days. Arbitrary changes in fact. And now I can tell you as a student of the institution where we're going. Members will be asked to walk the plank on the Republican side. And they're going to be told, oh, this will be changed in the Rules Committee. And then when it comes to the Floor they're going to to be told, oh, if we could just pass this it will be reconciled when we work with the Senate. I've seen a summary what have the Senate has done. There's going to be some substantial changes after this bill passes the House. “So for those members who have thought that they were going to be done with issue today, when we conclude this vote, it's coming back. You can't do what we're doing to harm the middle class in America, all for the purpose of concentrating greater wealth at the very top. And you can't disguise it, you can't have analysis of it, and you can't do it with just talking points. I wish this could have been done differently. I think this is an opportunity missed.” A clip of this speech can be found here. ##
11.06.2017	(As prepared for delivery) Thank you, Chairman Brady. I believe the bill before us today is a bad deal for millions of Americans, particularly those in the Middle Class. The legislation, which was crafted solely by the majority party behind closed doors and which was not made public until late last week, puts the wealthy and well-connected first, while forcing millions of American families to watch as their taxes go up. That’s simply not what the American people asked us to do and it is not something that the Democrats on this Committee can support. In 2001, Republicans cut taxes by $1.3 trillion; in 2003, by $1 trillion; and in 2005, there was the repatriation tax holiday. Each time, they promised job growth. However, they took us to the casino each time without a win, so why do you think we’ll have a win with this proposal? Maybe not. We have a million new veterans we need to care for and our military is committed around the world. We can’t afford another gamble. Since my first day as Ranking Member of this committee, I have called on my colleagues to come together to work on real reform for real people. I agree with my Republican colleagues that our tax system is too complicated, contains far too many loopholes and holds back American businesses competing in the global economy. However, I do not agree that in enacting tax reform we should be giving even more benefits to the well-off and well-connected with the hopes that it might trickle down. There is not a single, respected economist in this country that will argue that tax cuts pay for themselves. History has proven it just doesn’t work. The last time the House worked on successful tax reform, the process was very different. The tax reform bill in 1986 was written in a bipartisan manner from start to finish; unfolded over years, with countless opportunities to examine the legislation and make changes. That included 30 hearings on the bill and testimony from over 450 people. And the markup lasted 26 days. This is a missed opportunity. I truly believe that if instead of the closed process the Republicans used in developing this legislation, we instead worked together on a bipartisan basis, which included an open debate, we could have developed a bill that was better for our economy, American businesses and middle-class families. There are things that everyone on this dais can agree on: the corporate rate is too high and we need to help make American businesses more competitive against their foreign competitors. We need a tax code that is far less complex. And we need a tax system that encourages innovation and growth. That, Mr. Chairman, could have been the starting point for good-faith bipartisan negotiations. The Middle Class in this country are struggling. For years, they’ve watched as their wages remained stagnate and as their hours were cut. It was my hope that in passing tax reform we might take those Americans, who feel forgotten and left behind, into consideration and build a tax code founded on fairness. This bill simply does not do that. The legislation that we are marking up today lets the American people down at every step of their life-- from birth through retirement. It fails to provide the needed improvements to the tax code that could assist the hopeful young family trying to keep their head above water; the student trying to do the right thing by getting an education; and the factory worker at the end of a long career just hoping to have enough left over to retire with dignity. Democrats believe that instead of pulling down the ladder of opportunity for those in the middle-class, and the millions who aspire to it, we should be expanding it to make sure that everyone has a fair shot. Republicans have produced a deeply flawed bill that will hurt the teacher who spends his own money to buy school supplies for their students; the young parents who want to know the joy of adopting a child; students trying to responsibly pay back their student loans; the wife trying to afford her husband’s Alzheimer’s care; and the janitor who wants to retire with dignity so he can spoil his grandchildren. And let me remind my colleagues, the Republicans considered going after retirement savings to make their proposal work as well – and if this doesn’t work, we’ll likely be back there again. Another worry I have is the impact this bill may have on our housing market. The bill scales back the tax benefit of buying a new home, which will inevitably lower home values. It also eliminates the new markets tax credit, advance refunding and private activity bonds – an issue by the way, that I have championed for years, which are key for financing affordable housing. That’s why groups like the National Association of Home Builders oppose this bill. We can no longer accept status quo in Washington. The American Family should not be forced to continue watching as the rich get richer and they fall further and further behind. Our country cannot afford to only care about deficits and debt when Democrats are in the Oval office. We must break this cycle. Mr. Chairman, I believe it’s time that we set this bill aside and start again, this time in a bipartisan manner, on a new approach to tax reform that provides real reform to real people and gets our economy moving again. With that I yield back. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after introduction of the Ryan-McConnell Republican tax plan: “I have been around Congress long enough to know that bad process usually leads to terrible policy. This Republican tax bill is no different. A rushed, partisan and secret process yielded over 400 pages of broken promises to middle-class families. This bill falls short of reform, falls short of middle-class tax relief and falls short of the fiscal principles to which Republicans have long held themselves. Months of secret negotiations have produced a plan that tilts the tax code farther from the middle-class and more towards the well-off and well-connected. Their plan slashes taxes for big corporations and those at the top by gutting important deductions and tax incentives that every middle-class family in America relies on. Republicans have raided the very deductions and credits that help millions of families afford everything from groceries to medical expenses to a college education, just to give more those who don’t need it and haven’t asked for it. For generations, the American dream was built on the promise that if you worked hard and played by the rules you could buy a home, raise a family and save for a secure retirement. Republicans have rolled out a bill today that makes homeownership more expensive, education more costly and needed medical care unaffordable. Republicans had every opportunity to work with Democrats on a bipartisan plan that would have provided real reform for real people. Instead, they chose a path of secrecy and partisanship that excluded Democrats and many of their own members. Democrats will work in the coming weeks to expose the true cost this bill will have on middle-class families, small businesses and innovators.” ###
11.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement regarding the reports of a cap on retirement savings in 401(k) plans as outlined in the GOP tax reform proposal. “America is in a crisis,” said Representative Neal. “Few people save enough to live comfortably for the years after they stop working. One vehicle for saving for retirement that people do use is their 401(k) plan. Reports on the GOP tax reform proposal, however, indicate that there would be a cap as to how much money individuals are able to contribute to their plan on a pre-tax basis. This cap scheme would harm Americans’ ability to prepare for retirement by providing less of an incentive to save and decreasing small business’ incentive to sponsor retirement plans. Taxing workers retirement savings now with a promise of tax savings in 40 years only worsens our nation’s retirement crisis. The Republicans are phasing out savings to pay for a tax cut for the people at the top. Democrats are trying to make it easier for people to plan for their future.” ##
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today sent a letter to Ways & Means Chairman Kevin Brady asking that he delay next week’s full committee markup after Republicans announced their tax plan would not be released publicly today: Neal wrote, in part: “Given your announcement last night that you are delaying the introduction of your highly anticipated tax legislation, I write to urge you in the strongest possible terms to slow this tax reform process to a pace that will allow for reasonable, informed deliberation. Democratic members of the Committee had already expressed concerns regarding the condensed timeframe you were providing us to review your proposed legislation before beginning a full Committee markup on Monday afternoon. Last night’s announcement that you do not intend to introduce that legislation for at least another day means that Democratic members will have even less time to review legislation that will touch every American and fundamentally alter the finance system of this country. It is my hope that you will take this into consideration and delay the start of the full Committee markup.” A copy of the full letter is available here. ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Congressman Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) today introduced the Give Assistance and Help to Americans impacted by Natural Disasters Act (“Give A HAND” Act) to provide relief to individuals and businesses to recover in the immediate aftermath of the recent natural disasters and assist the ongoing rebuilding process in communities touch by natural disasters in years past. The “Give A HAND” Act would provide certain retroactive tax benefits to taxpayers who suffered from past natural disasters (2012-2015), while also providing a package of relief provisions that are effective for all natural disasters from 2016 going forward, including relief for victims from the recent wildfires in Northern California, and Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. This bill would ensure that U.S. territories impacted by natural disasters, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands – still reeling from the devastating storms, have the adequate tools and economic support from the federal government to recover and rebuild. Finally, H.R. 4172 ensures that Medicare beneficiaries who were unable to meet enrollment deadlines as a result of the disaster receive relief from statutory late enrollment penalties. “In times of disaster Americans come together and support our friends and neighbors,” said Congressman Neal. “The disaster aid package that passed the House weeks ago was anemic at best, and it certainly did nothing to help those impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Mara rebuild in the long term. Worse, given that the relief in that law was limited to victims of those three hurricanes, the package did absolutely nothing for our fellow Americans struggling to recover from the wildfires in Northern California. We must not pick and choose who deserves our nation’s support in the time of disaster. Our friends in New York and New Jersey who were devastated by Hurricane Sandy can tell you that rebuilding is a long, slow road and those going through that process should have the peace of mind that their government will be with them every step along the way.” “The wildfires that have torn through our community have left thousands devastated. This bill would give those folks the tax relief they need to focus on rebuilding their lives and community in the wake of this disaster,” said Rep. Thompson. “This legislation would also make permanent various temporary disaster tax relief measures that have been given to survivors of different disasters over the years, speeding up relief for future disasters by removing Congressional action from the equation.” “We need a comprehensive and immediate response to natural disasters when they strike,” said Congressman Pascrell. “Disaster relief should not be a matter of politics or geography. I have been fighting for disaster relief for victims of Hurricane Sandy since 2012, and watched as other disaster areas were given assistance that Sandy victims were denied. The federal response should be swift and strong whether the impacted region is home to the Ways and Means chairman or not. I commend Ranking Member Neal for taking up these provisions from my bipartisan bill, the National Disaster Tax Relief Act, as well as my bill extending the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit to Puerto Rico. As the island recovers from Hurricane Maria, economic assistance cannot come soon enough.” Full text of the bill can be found here, and a section-by-section summary can be found here. ###
10.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin asking that the secretary or a designee join the Committee as they markup the Ryan-McConnell tax plan next week. “On behalf of the Ways and Means Democrats, we hope that you or your designee from the Department of Treasury will be able to join the Committee as we consider this historic legislation,” Ranking Member Neal wrote. “In the past, a representative from the Department of the Treasury – usually, the Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy – has joined the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation at the witness table during the Committee’s consideration of certain revenue measures. Your insight on the provisions in the bill will be invaluable as we evaluate the merits of the package as a whole, and the Administration should have the opportunity to offer the reflections of the Executive Branch and the opinions of the President on what could be the year’s most significant legislative package.” A copy of the letter is available here. ###
10.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today filed legislation that would allow Medicare beneficiaries access to critical opioid addiction treatment medication in outpatient and physician settings. The President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis’s July 2017 interim report pointed to Medicare’s lack of coverage of methadone and other Medication Assisted Treatments (MAT) as a barrier to accessing treatment. Currently, Medicare only covers methadone treatment for opioid addiction in inpatient hospitals – methadone is not covered as an outpatient treatment for addiction in Medicare. Since hospitalization is not always necessary for opioid addiction treatment, Medicare does not pay for methadone treatment for beneficiaries who need treatment on an outpatient basis. “While the American people wait for the President to take decisive action against the opioid epidemic, more of our friends and neighbors are falling victim to this disease,” said Congressman Neal. “There are things that Congress can be doing, in tandem with any action taken by the Administration, which is why I’m pushing for increased access to lifesaving medications, like methadone, for Medicare beneficiaries in outpatient settings. The fact is, opioid use disorder is increasing among the Medicare population and it’s our responsibility to open every avenue to treatment to those who need it. No one should forego treatment because the medication they need isn’t covered by Medicare.” Opioid use disorder is a large and growing problem among Medicare beneficiaries: Nearly 50 percent of the Medicare population under 65, individuals with disabilities, and a third of Part D beneficiaries are prescribed opioids. One study showed that opioid use disorder was six times more prevalent in one carrier’s Medicare Advantage population than in their commercial population in 2010. Opioid use disorders are rapidly growing among Medicare beneficiaries. Medicare Part D spending on opioids far outpaces enrollment, growing 165% from 2006 to 2015. Within Medicare Part D, one-third of beneficiaries received an opioid prescription in 2016, more than 500,000 received high amounts of opioids, and 90,000 beneficiaries were at “serious risk” of misuse or overdose. Among the nearly 12 million Part D beneficiaries who were prescribed opioids, the average beneficiary received five prescriptions for commonly abused opioids throughout 2015. Methadone treatment is an evidence-based substance use disorder treatment. Experts point to expanding coverage of outpatient medication-assisted treatment (MAT) for patients, including methadone, as a top priority in addressing the ongoing opioid crisis. ###
10.18.2017	Springfield, MA – On Wednesday, U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal joined Springfield Mayor Domenic Sarno and members of the Springfield Redevelopment Authority to formally accept the 2017 Paul and Niki Tsongas Award to Union Station in Springfield during a press conference at the train station. "The restoration and reopening of Union Station has been a much anticipated moment in Springfield's history,” said Preservation Massachusetts President Jim Igoe. “On behalf of Preservation Massachusetts I am honored to not only celebrate the incredible work that went into bringing this landmark back to life, but also the dedication and determination of the Congressman, the city and its citizens. We are proud to award this project as one that shows the power and impact historic preservation can have in our communities." “I am thrilled to accept this award on behalf of Springfield Union Station,” said Representative Neal. “I vowed to rehabilitate this dormant station when I first ran for political office in 1977. Now, forty years later, that vision has become a reality and the Union Station we see today is a bustling transportation hub once again. Thank you to Preservation Massachusetts for this acknowledgement and for the great work they do to ensure that historic structures like this one are conserved for future generations to come.” “We’re thrilled and humbled to receive such a prestigious award. This is a reflection of the stick-to-itiveness of Congressman Neal and my administration’s continued efforts to weave together respect and historic preservation into economic and transportation development. It’s ‘back to the future’!” said Mayor Domenic J. Sarno. Christopher Moskal, Executive Director of the Springfield Redevelopment Authority said, “The SRA is eternally grateful to Congressman Neal and Mayor Sarno for their unwavering support in bringing the Springfield Union Station back to its original grandeur. Making the old new and relevant again and breathing life back into the neighborhood were driving forces behind this historic project and it could never have been accomplished without their efforts.” Preservation Massachusetts was founded in 1989 as a statewide nonprofit historic preservation agency focused on preserving the Commonwealth’s historic and cultural heritage. This award was presented on May 10, 2017 during an awards dinner at the Fairmont Copley Plaza in Boston. ##
10.13.2017	The Honorable Richard Neal Disaster Supplemental Statement October 13, 2017 I rise in support of the disaster supplemental because it provides critical funds to help rebuild communities in the U.S. states and territories, including Puerto Rico. Although I support this bill, I am concerned it is not enough. For example, it fails to provide funds for Community Development Block Grants, critical health care needs, Social Services Block Grants and public housing assistance. We need to assure people in these devastated areas Congress will stand with them in the short and long term—provide comfort and immediate needs now and also funds to rebuild infrastructure and restore and strengthen their economy that will sustain well into the future. As these funds are dispersed, it is imperative they are managed responsibly so storm victims don’t become targets of shady outsiders or crooked business owners. This week, President Trump once again let down the people of Puerto Rico by announcing he plans to prematurely pull the military, FEMA and other critical agency support from the island. This approach is irresponsible and dangerous. The island and its people are still fragile and need to rebuild, not be burdened with further anxiety and uncertainty.
10.06.2017	Springfield, MA – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal joined Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and representatives from DevelopSpringfield today at 77 Maple Street to announce a significant grant from the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA). The $1,136,124 grant from the WorkHub Accelerator Division of the EDA will be used to rehabilitate the former Springfield Female Seminary building at 77 Maple Street into a series of small offices and co-working spaces for entrepreneurial use. This project has an anticipated outcome of providing 30 jobs and generating $284,000 in private investment. “This building was constructed in 1832 and is one of only 25 known, still-standing buildings in Springfield to pre-date 1835,” said Representative Neal. “By saving this historic treasure and transforming it into a hub for small business use, the team at DevelopSpringfield once again shows what can be done to revitalize our downtown.” Mayor Sarno states, “As always, I’m very appreciative of Congressman Neal’s continued efforts to provide federal assets to Springfield. Simply put, this over $1 million award is a jobs generator.” “We are grateful to the Economic Development Administration for their critical investment in this strategic redevelopment which will create supportive space and services for small business development,” said Nick Fyntrilakis, DevelopSpringfield’s Board Chair. “We also appreciate the advocacy of Congressman Neal, Senator Warren and Senator Markey on this application. The rehabilitation of this historic property will help strengthen this vital corridor and complement other projects taking place in the neighborhood.” 77 Maple Street is on the National Register of Historic Places. ##
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the non-partisan Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (ITEP) released state-by-state analysis of the Republican tax framework: “Another day, another non-partisan report highlighting the harm that the proposed Republican tax framework would do to middle class families across the country. Today’s report from ITEP echoes the findings put forward last week by the Tax Policy Center and show that no matter where you live, you’re not safe from the ruinous effects of the Ryan-McConnell trickle down tax plan. One week after putting forward a framework that left American families with more questions than answers, Republicans have yet to engage Democrats in good faith discussions on how we can make this tax plan work for middle class Americans, rather than saddle more than 20% of residents in my home state of Massachusetts with a tax increase, as the ITEP report found. The American people deserve a tax code founded on fairness. Our tax system should reward hardworking, middle-class families, small businesses, and innovators, while ensuring that no one, no matter how well-connected or wealthy they are, can avoid paying their fair share. Today’s analysis from ITEP shows that the current framework has a long way to go to meet that standard.” ###
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. Senate and House Democrats today wrote a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to reject the GOP’s proposed budget that would cut vital programs like Medicare and Medicaid in order to finance tax cuts for the wealthy. During his presidential campaign, then President-elect Trump vowed he would not touch such critical programs that middle class Americans rely on when they are in most need. Democrats urged the President to keep this promise and reject the GOP’s proposals, which include roughly $500 billion in cuts to Medicare and more than $1trillion in cuts to Medicaid. The Democrats said cutting these critical programs that help middle class people every day in order to fund massive tax relief for the top 1 percent is just plain wrong. The letter was penned by U.S. Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), U.S. House of Representatives Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Ranking Member on the Senate Budget Committee Senator Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Ranking Member on the House Budget Committee Congressman John Yarmuth (D-KY), Ranking Member on the Senate Finance Committee Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), Ranking Member on the House Ways & Means Committee Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA), and Ranking Member on the House Energy & Commerce Committee Congressman Frank Pallone (D-NJ). A copy of the letter sent to President Trump appears below: Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to uphold your repeated promises to not cut Medicare and to publicly reject the almost $500 billion in Medicare benefit cuts in both House and Senate Republicans’ Fiscal Year 2018 budget resolutions. We also ask you reject the more than $1 trillion in Medicaid benefit cuts in the House and Senate budget resolutions. Medicare and Medicaid should not be used to finance new tax breaks for the wealthy, and we request that you pledge to veto any legislation that includes these cuts. Nine out of ten Americans oppose cutting Medicare, including 85 percent of Republicans. During the campaign, you pledged numerous times not to cut Medicare in any way, and as recently as April said, “the concept of Medicare, I'm not touching.” More than 55 million seniors and Americans with disabilities depend on Medicare. The staggering benefit cuts proposed in the Republican budgets would subject millions of these Americans, many of whom already live on tight budgets, to soaring out-of-pocket health costs, higher premiums and reductions in benefits. Even deeper cuts would be triggered if Congress adds trillions to the deficit in tax cuts for the wealthy as the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act would then require an additional automatic cut (“sequester”) to Medicare and other domestic programs. Additionally, nine out of ten people do not want to see Medicaid cut. Americans resoundingly rejected cuts to Medicaid this year and fought to protect care for the more than 70 million Americans that benefit from it. Hard-working families, children, seniors, veterans, those with disabilities, people struggling with addiction, and rural communities would face immense suffering – but the proposed budgets cut Medicaid even deeper than any previous legislation. Medicare and Medicaid are promises to working and middle-class families that quality health care will be there when they need it most. It is a promise that we must not break. Americans have spoken passionately and clearly to say that our country should move toward covering more people and reducing the cost of care – not the opposite. We hope to work with you and Congressional Republicans in a bipartisan manner to achieve this goal. We ask you to maintain your ongoing promise to protect Medicare, to oppose cuts to Medicaid and to swiftly reassure the millions of Americans who rely on them that they will not be cut to fund tax breaks for the wealthy. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Senate Democratic Leader U.S. Representative Nancy Pelosi, House Democratic Leader U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, Ranking Member, Senate Budget Committee U.S. Representative John Yarmuth, Ranking Member, House Budget Committee U.S. Senator Ron Wyden, Ranking Member, Senate Finance Committee U.S. Representative Richard Neal, Ranking Member, House Ways & Means Committee U.S. Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Ranking Member, House Energy & Commerce Committee ###
10.04.2017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to take a moment to reflect on today’s mark up in the Ways and Means Committee and what is also going on in the Energy and Commerce Committee. In the past, our two committees have worked together in a bipartisan manner on health extenders. For this reason, I am concerned by the partisan nature of the Energy and Commerce Committee markup because it signals a departure from strong bipartisan action. I’m pleased to see that Chairman Walden and Ranking Member Pallone were able to agree to the Senate’s bipartisan agreement on the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). CHIP is important to all of our members, on both sides of the aisle. However, there are some issues that cause me concern. First, I do not believe we should be paying for an extenders package by harming Medicare beneficiaries and causing people to lose health insurance. Shortening the grace period for premium payments will cause coverage loss; further coverage loss will come from shifting the full cost of Medicare premiums on to beneficiaries. This breaks the social contract of Medicare. We should not pay for kids’ coverage by kicking other people off of health insurance coverage. Second, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Americans on these islands have been devastated by Hurricane Maria. They need our help. The amount of money the Energy and Commerce Committee proposes for Medicaid funding, coupled with new conditions on that money, is vastly inadequate. We can and should do better. Third, delaying the cuts to the Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) program is unacceptable. I’m glad to see Chairman Walden recognizes this needs to be done, but how they plan to do it is not right. Hospitals should get more than one year of relief, like the other extenders. And it should not be accomplished by making the cuts worse in later years. Again, we can do better. The last time we did an extenders package, it was a bipartisan deal. And I hope we can get to that point in this year’s package. But harming beneficiaries and short changing hospitals and hurricane-ravaged areas isn’t the way to do it. Now, turning to the bill at hand, IPAB repeal. As you know, I believe Congress should make the tough decisions, not boards like IPAB. But I have grave concerns about how we are proceeding today. Today’s mark up is yet another example of misplaced priorities on the part of my Republican colleagues. We as a committee should be looking to address the most pressing of matters, not a provision of law that doesn’t even get triggered for another three years. While Republicans were able to quickly provide support for states harmed by Irma, aid has been inexcusably slow for the American citizens who were the victims of Maria in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. And then earlier this week the tragedy in Las Vegas. Surely there is some action we can take as a committee to prevent needless gun deaths and mass murders on our own soil. Also more action is urgently needed to address the opioid crisis. To date, the Ways and Means Committee has not even a held a hearing to identify what we could do within our jurisdiction in any of these areas. This committee plays a crucial role in important matters that impact our nation. We should be focusing on the things that matter to American families, and I just don’t believe IPAB is it.
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the Tax Policy Center released an analysis of the Ryan-McConnell tax framework: “Despite Republican claims that their tax plan would benefit the middle class, today’s analysis from the Tax Policy Center confirms that the Ryan-McConnell tax plan would overwhelmingly favor the rich at the expense of the middle class and hardworking Americans. Alarmingly, this analysis found that the middle class would be likely to pay more in taxes, directly contradicting claims made by Speaker Ryan and Leader McConnell. Paying for massive tax cuts for the wealthy at the direct expense of the middle class would cause great harm to our nation’s economy and further exacerbate income inequality. To put it simply, this tax plan is a gut punch to the middle class and a golden goose for the rich.” ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after reports that dialysis patients in Puerto Rico are not receiving the medical care they need: “I am deeply concerned about reports from Puerto Rico that millions of people, including thousands of dialysis patients, are not receiving the urgent medical care they depend on. In this day and age, no American should ever die of a manageable medical condition. Yet this appears to be the situation facing kidney disease patients in Puerto Rico. Those in need of dialysis are in dire condition due to Puerto Rico’s lack of needed fuel and supplies to dialyze those with kidney disease. More than a week after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico, needed medical supplies and fuel have not been delivered, resulting in the death of kidney patients; these deaths were preventable and the failure to get needed help to the island is inexcusable. The Administration and Congress must act immediately to get urgently needed fuel and supplies to Puerto Rico. HHS and FEMA must act with immediacy. If the needed supplies and fuel cannot be brought to the island in a timely manner, the Administration must work to evacuate patients in the most critical condition.” ###
09.27.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Thank you everyone for coming today to discuss the important topic of tax reform. While Republicans are hiding behind closed doors to formulate how they’re going to cut taxes for the wealthy, we are here inviting the American public to discuss tax reform with us out in the open. Let me start by reiterating that Democrats support pro-growth, pro-worker, comprehensive tax reform. And let me highlight a few key principles that we believe must be adhered to in tax reform. For Democrats, our number one priority in tax reform is moving the dial to help middle-class families prosper. That means creating jobs and boosting wages – and giving hardworking, middle-class Americans the relief they need to get ahead. A key component to this “middle-class first” test is that any tax reform plan must place workers first. The benefits should not skew towards the wealthy. In fact, we believe that the wealthy should not receive any tax cuts in these efforts. Instead, tax reform should be primarily focused on raising the living standards of the middle-class. Second, any tax reform package that we could support must be fiscally responsible, and at least revenue neutral. And when I say revenue neutral, I mean revenue neutral as determined in a conventional revenue estimate by the Joint Committee on Taxation. We've been hearing a lot of rhetoric these days that "tax cuts pay for themselves." But economists – both conservatives and progressives – tell us that’s just not the case. And one of our witnesses today, Bruce Bartlett, who worked for Ronald Reagan and Jack Kemp, will make that case. We’ve now all seen the Republicans’ tax framework. And despite the Republicans’ claims that their tax plan is all about the middle-class, it is instead a poorly disguised tax cut for the rich. Yesterday at the White House during our meeting with Ways and Means Committee members, President Trump promised to all of us in that room that under his tax plan, “the rich will not benefit.” Well, it only took one day for Speaker Ryan and Leader McConnell to break that promise. The Republicans lower the top individual rate to 35 percent, eliminate the estate tax and AMT, and create a huge loophole for the wealthy by lowering the pass-through rate to 25 percent. All of this is likely to award huge tax cuts to the wealthy. In fact, one of our witnesses today, Seth Hanlon, has estimated that this amounts to a $220,000 per year tax cut for an average millionaire. It’s time to move on from the “Big 6” and really get together on a bipartisan basis and negotiate a truly middle-class tax reform package. I am honored to be joined today by my Democratic House colleagues and Members of our Leadership team. It is now my privilege to recognize the distinguished House Minority Leader, Nancy Pelosi, for an opening statement. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after Speaker Ryan and Leader McConnell unveiled their tax reform framework: “It’s clear from this plan that when it comes to tax reform, Republicans will always put the wealthy first. After more than a year of work, Republicans have only managed to produce a nine-page document without any of the significant details the American people deserve to know. In our meeting yesterday at the White House with Ways and Means Committee members, President Trump promised that under his tax plan, ‘the rich will not benefit.’ It’s clear that only a day later, Speaker Ryan and Leader McConnell have already broken that promise. Why should the American people believe anything House and Senate Republicans say about their tax plan when they don’t even come close to meeting any of President Trump’s stated goals about tax reform? This tax plan would give big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans, helping the rich get richer while leaving behind working families and middle-class Americans. Not only that, their plan would also explode our nation’s deficit by believing that tax cuts pay for themselves – something that respected economists on both sides of the aisle know is simply not true or borne out by any facts. “This has been a partisan process from the start with virtually no Democratic input, as Republicans have put politics above policy and the economic security of hardworking Americans. I have long said that real tax reform needs to be done in a bipartisan manner because as we learned from 1986, that’s the only way we’ll be successful. Today, Republicans instead chose to continue down their own path without even knowing where it will lead. “Democrats are united in our effort to stand up for the middle class rather than those at the top, and we will fight every day to make sure hardworking middle-class families get the tax relief they need. We are determined to make smart investments in job creation programs and community colleges, make child care and education more affordable, and strengthen retirement security for all Americans.” ###
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) led 145 Members of Congress in writing to President Trump, demanding that the Department of Defense deploy additional resources to aid recovery efforts in Puerto Rico. Lawmakers are calling for the appointment of a senior general to oversee all recovery efforts, the deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier and to increase personnel to assist local law enforcement. “3.5 million American citizens in Puerto Rico are facing a dire humanitarian crisis,” said Velázquez. “I have heard from seniors whose medical needs are not being met due to power outages, children who are suffering from extreme heat in the crowded airport and families who are still unable to contact their loved ones. These are matters of life and death.” “While the situation on the ground remains desperate, President Trump held a press conference yesterday congratulating his Administration on their response,” Velázquez added. “If President Trump doesn’t swiftly deploy every available resource that our country has, then he has failed the people of Puerto Rico -- and this will become his Katrina. Every second in this effort counts and the stakes are too high for further delay, inaction or inefficiency.” The full text of the letter is below and online here with a list of signatories. For a PDF, click here. September 27, 2017 President Donald J. Trump 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: On September 20th, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands endured a direct impact from Hurricane Maria. With winds up to 160 mph, Hurricane Maria devastated these islands, caused significant power outages, destroyed telecommunications infrastructure, and thereby paralyzed the region. Given the impact of the damage and the population of 3.6 million American citizens affected, we are concerned that federal efforts to date have been insufficient to address the severity of the situation. We know there are DOD elements helping today, and all the service members involved are working very hard, but we are concerned that the scale of DOD assets supporting the operation are inadequate. Thus, we write to urge you to further mobilize the Department of Defense to immediately deploy additional assets in support of Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Island recovery efforts. As you know, the Department of Defense has additional capabilities that could help alleviate suffering in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and prevent this catastrophe from worsening. First and foremost, a senior general officer must be appointed to work with FEMA to manage a joint response assist with the recovery effort on the ground, and enable local constituencies to have a single point of contact. This was done in response to Hurricane Katrina, and we feel the same approach is warranted now for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. As we are sure you are aware, in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, there are numerous municipalities that are inaccessible from the ground, which is where DOD engineer and aviation assets would be most helpful. With millions of U.S. citizens stranded in remote areas without basic necessities, engineers are needed first to clear the roads. Additional aviation assets are needed to get relief supplies to isolated locations. Additionally, substantial ground and air logistics support is required to get aid to the islands, rescue stranded citizens, and provide them with supplies and thereafter assist with the restoration of power and telecommunications infrastructure if needed. To fulfill DOD's mission, we believe the aircraft carrier, USS Abraham Lincoln, should be sent to the region, similar to its deployment to Miami following Hurricane Irma. DHS has indicated it has "provided more than 1.5 million meals, 1.1 million liters of water, nearly 300 infant and toddler kits, and nearly 12,000 emergency roofing kits to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico since Hurricane Maria's landfall." While these meals and resources are profoundly needed, unfortunately, there is a large portion of the population that has been underserved. Lastly, DOD has critical resources that could assist with addressing security issues. We have heard reports that the ongoing supply shortages are causing looting and crime. We were recently informed of armed gangs ransacking a warehouse that distributes food and supplies. Defense Department personnel could provide essential support to local law enforcement in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to ensure relief supplies are delivered to those most in need- and that those that have already been immensely devastated by the hurricane, do not need to fear for their lives when filling up their gas at the pump or securing food for their family. We thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Please feel free to contact us with any questions. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velazquez Smith Hoyer Crowley Lawson Nadler Holmes Norton Wasserman Schultz Meeks Linda Sanchez Higgins Sires Evans Raskin Napolitano Meng Roybal-Allard Castro Capuano Dingell Quigley Larson Thompson Watson Coleman Carolyn Maloney Frederica Wilson DeGette Deutch Kildee Carbajal Matsui Langevin Takano Price McCollum Welch Doyle Adams Crist Tsongas Engel Veasey Hanabusa Schakowsky Cohen Blumenauer Connolly Sablan Murphy Lowey Slaughter McGovern DeLauro Torres Pallone Castor Gomez Tonko Norcross Correa Sean Patrick Maloney Polis Serrano Costa Lujan Cleaver Shea-Porter Blunt Rochester Robert Brady Barragan Chu Castor Beyer Jackson Lee Lee Demings Yarmuth Boyle Neal Lowenthal Beatty O’Halleran Gutiérrez Moulton Espaillat Bonamici Himes Ryan Cicilline Kaptur Kilmer Rice Lipinski Schneider Soto Suozzi Ellison Courtney Speier Cárdenas Keating Pascrell, Jr. Clarke Waltz Heck Lowey Gabbard Titus Lujan Grisham Clay Carson DeSaulnier McEachin Foster Al Green Plaskett Schiff Payne, Jr. Sarbanes Pingree Lawrence Lynch Lieu Kennedy Scott Peters Jefferies Grijalva Delaney Bustos David Scott Brownley Gene Green Bass Cummings Doggett Khanna Calderon Eshoo Vargas Susan Davis Aguilar Bobby scott Panetta Visclosky Gallego Bera Cc: The Honorable James Mattis, Secretary of Defense
09.26.2017	(WASHINGTON) Following a meeting on tax reform at the White House today with bipartisan members of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, Congressman Richard E. Neal urged President Donald J. Trump not to eliminate the position of Special Envoy to Northern Ireland. Citing concerns over Brexit and the suspension of the power-sharing government in Belfast, Neal said it is critical that the United States continues to have a dedicated representative in the region working with the five main political parties and the Irish and British governments. President Trump agreed and made a commitment to fill the vacant post. Neal then confirmed the President’s decision with White House Chief of Staff John Kelly. “I told President Trump that eliminating the position of Special Envoy would send a message around the world that the United States is no longer engaged in the region. As we approach the 20thAnniversary of the Good Friday Agreement, America must continue to play a meaningful role in the peace process. With the political institutions in the North suspended, the United States should have a dedicated representative to help prevent further political instability. I also believe we can make an important contribution to the Brexit debate and its implications on the island of Ireland. At this critical time, I am pleased that President Trump promised not to eliminate the Special Envoy post ,” said Congressman Richard Neal. Congressman Richard E. Neal and more than 30 of his colleagues sent a bipartisan letter to U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson last week urging the Trump administration not to eliminate the Northern Ireland Special Envoy position. A copy of that letter is attached. Neal is Co-Chairman of the Friends of Ireland Caucus in the United States Congress. #30#
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) introduced legislation to help millions of Americans save for a financially secure retirement through an automatic payroll deduction Individual Retirement Account, or Auto-IRA. House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) introduced companion legislation in the House earlier this year. “Only half of American workers are able to save for retirement through their work. That means the other half is missing out on an important way to grow their nest egg,” said Whitehouse. “This bill would make it easier both for workers and for employers to set up and use a retirement plan. That would let more Rhode Islanders and people across the country enjoy greater financial freedom and security in their golden years.” “All hardworking Americans should have easy, accessible ways to save for retirement,” said Neal. “I’m proud to work with Senator Whitehouse on this important legislation to help improve retirement security for folks in Massachusetts and throughout the country, provide peace of mind, and enable Americans to retire with the dignity they have earned.” According to financial planners, the United States faces an impending crisis, with many Americans simply not saving enough for retirement. An estimated 30 million full-time, year-round workers have no employer-provided retirement plan or other opportunity to save through workplace contributions. A survey by the Employee Benefit Research Institute found that fewer than one in five Americans are fully confident they will have enough savings for a comfortable retirement. The Automatic IRA Act offers a common-sense solution to expand Americans’ retirement savings. The legislation would require employers who do not provide another qualified retirement plan and who have 10 or more employees to enroll every worker automatically in an Auto-IRA unless the employee opts out. Employers could receive tax credits to defray the costs of setting up the accounts. According to surveys by the Pew Charitable Trusts, almost 90 percent of small- to mid-size employers that are not currently offering retirement savings plans support the idea of Auto-IRA programs. Most employers support the concept because they believe it will help their workers. The Auto-IRA concept, first developed by Brookings Institution and Heritage Foundation scholars, has garnered widespread support, including from the Women’s Institute for a Secure Retirement, the National Black Chamber of Commerce, and the Aspen Institute Initiative on Financial Security. ###
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) issued a preliminary analysis of the Graham-Cassidy Senate Republican health care bill: “Senate Republicans are continuing full steam ahead with a wildly unpopular health care bill that would do tremendous harm to the American people. Today’s preliminary CBO analysis further reaffirms just how irresponsible and reckless Republican health care proposals have been this year, as Republicans try to sneak this bill by the American people before CBO has time to fully evaluate its impact. Members of Congress and the public don’t even know how many millions of Americans would lose health insurance, or how much premiums and out-of-pocket costs might rise. Yet Senate Republicans and the Administration continue to push this bill, ignoring the fact that doctors, hospitals, senior groups, nurses, state Medicaid directors, and many others in the medical community vehemently oppose this bill because of the devastation it would cause the American people. It’s time for Republicans to stop playing games with Americans’ health care, and work with Democrats in a bipartisan manner through hearings and legislation that will stabilize markets, protect Medicaid from drastic cuts, and actually help ensure positive health outcomes for American families.” ###
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal announced on Monday the passage of H.R. 1235, The Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin Act in the House of Representatives. Neal, along with his colleague from Kentucky, Representative Andy Barr, co-sponsored the bill as a way to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the invention of basketball. The game of basketball began in a YMCA gymnasium in Springfield, Massachusetts. In December of 1891, a physical education professor named Dr. James Naismith created a game with a simple objective; throw a round ball into a peach basket suspended 10 feet above the ground. Thanks to the networks of YMCAs throughout the country and the game's successes on various college campuses, the sport soon became a national phenomenon. The first home of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame opened on the campus of Springfield College in 1968. Its current location on the banks of the Connecticut River opened in 2002 and welcomes six million visitors annually. “The First Congressional District of Massachusetts has many gems and the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame is certainly one of them,” said Representative Neal. "I have long been a supporter of the Hall of Fame and the great work that they do in the greater Springfield area. They are a terrific organization that works tirelessly to preserve the history and educate people about this truly American game. The Basketball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin is the ideal way for the legacy of these great athletes and coaches to be remembered for decades to come and I am thankful for the hard work of Congressman Barr for helping pass this legislation in the House.” “As the Representative of central and eastern Kentucky, home to the greatest tradition in the history of college basketball and several members of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, I am proud that this legislation has now passed the House,” said Representative Barr. I have enjoyed working with my colleague, Congressman Neal, as well as the Hall of Fame to build support and pass this legislation which we hope will move in the U.S. Senate soon.” “The Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame is honored and grateful for the strong support of our commemorative coin act which will allow us to continue to educate fans worldwide about the game and its unique history,” said John L. Doleva, President and CEO of the Naismith Memorial Hall of Fame. “A game created in Springfield, Massachusetts has become a global phenomenon and truly a universal language of community, diversity, and sportsmanship. The Hall of Fame thanks Congressmen Richard E. Neal and Andy Barr for their unwavering support as we celebrate the game that has captured the imagination of fans and players around the globe.” These coins would come with no cost to the American taxpayer and the surcharges on these coins will go to further the museum's curation efforts. The proceeds will also go towards educational program that promote good sportsmanship and respect on and off the court. This bill now goes to the Senate, where Senators Elizabeth Warren and John McCain are the co-sponsors. ##
09.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC –Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) today sent a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price requesting the agency grant additional leeway for the upcoming open enrollment seasons for both Medicare and Marketplace Enrollment due to the historic damage inflicted on a number of states and territories over the past few weeks. “HHS has additional authority to ensure that Americans affected by Harvey, Irma, and Maria can access critical HHS health care programs,” Neal and Pallone wrote to Secretary Price. “We ask that you use your authority to provide additional leeway for enrollment related choices. Many residents are focused on securing their houses, taking care of elderly neighbors, rebuilding amid flood damage and ensuring access to food, water and necessary treatment and medication. During this period of response and recovery, HHS should allow residents of affected states and territories additional leeway for both of the upcoming enrollment seasons.” In the letter, Reps. Neal and Pallone request that the enrollment deadlines for Marketplace Enrollment and Medicare Advantage be extended through January 2018 to give individuals affected by the devastating hurricanes sufficient time to reestablish their lives and sign up for coverage. The members also expressed concern that individuals affected by the hurricanes that are eligible for Medicare Part B and Part D for the first time will miss enrollment deadlines and thus be forced to pay a lifetime of increased premiums as a result. To accommodate these individuals, Reps. Neal and Pallone are requesting a special election period and waiver of any premium penalty. The members also request flexibility in Part B premium collection and termination due to non-payment of premiums for beneficiaries who do not have premiums deducted from their Social Security checks. “These are commonsense measures that would provide much needed assistance and leeway for Americans affected by the devastating impacts of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria,” the members continued in their letter to Secretary Price. “We hope that HHS will afford Americans affected by these storms the necessary understanding and flexibility to ensure that they can both focus on recovery and make informed decisions about their coverage for the year ahead.” A copy of the letter is available here. ###
09.21.2017	South Hadley, MA – Today, U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded a total of $452,759 in grant funding to Mount Holyoke College. This grant, specifically from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS), in conjunction with HHS, will be used to conduct research on campus. NIGMS offers grant funding to stimulate research at educational institutions that provide training for a significant number of the nation's research scientists. The award provides funding for small-scale, new or ongoing health-related research projects. “Massachusetts has consistently lead the way in the medical research field,” said Representative Neal. “It is encouraging to see this new wave of scientists and researchers getting their start right here at Mount Holyoke College.” Professor Andrea Foulkes, chair of the mathematics and statistics department, was the driving force behind the grant application. “I am so delighted to have been awarded this grant to develop statistical methods for analyzing huge datasets,” said Foulkes. “This could have an enormous impact on public health. For example, by examining how the body responds to immune activation, we may be able to develop new ways of understanding the genetic basis of cardiometabolic diseases and complex inflammatory disorders, both of which present major public health concerns.” Jon Western, vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty for Mount Holyoke, noted that the grant exemplifies the commitment of the College’s faculty to solving greater problems in the world through applying their research in innovative ways. “Professor Foulkes is an outstanding scholar and teacher and we are thrilled to see her research supported by NIGMS,” he said. “Continuing in the long-standing tradition of Mount Holyoke faculty applying their research to address significant challenges, she is pioneering new and innovative statistical modeling and data science techniques that will help us better understand some of the most vexing public health problems. We are excited to see where this research will lead.” ##
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Senior Congressional Democratic leaders sent a letter to the Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General (OIG) today requesting an investigation into reports that Secretary Tom Price has been using taxpayer funds to book private jets to accommodate his travel. The letter was signed by House Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Senate Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight & Emergency Management Ranking Member Gary Peters (D-MI). “We are writing to request that you conduct a review of Secretary Tom Price’s adherence to federal regulations and Department of Health and Human Services policies and procedures for travel,” the members wrote to HHS Inspector General Levinson. “This request follows a troubling report by Politico that Secretary Price recently used privately chartered flights to travel within the Northeast United States on HHS business over the course of three days, which was estimated to cost ‘tens of thousands of dollars more than commercial travel.’” The members continued, “American taxpayers deserve assurances that their tax dollars are not wasted by the government’s highest officials, and we are committed to holding Secretary Price to his stated pledges to reduce waste throughout the Department. Therefore, we appreciate your prompt and thorough review of these issues.” As part of the investigation, the members are requesting that the OIG’s review include a determination on a series of questions, including: On how many occasions to date did Secretary Price utilize government aircraft and/or privately chartered aircraft? How much did these trips cost federal taxpayers? In each of the instances in which a chartered flight was used, what justification was provided for not flying commercially? Is there a mechanism for Secretary Price to reimburse taxpayers for the costs incurred? Did any HHS personnel raise concerns internally about Secretary Price’s repeated use of privately chartered flights? A copy of the letter is available here. ##
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) today released the following joint statement after the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a Request for Information regarding the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI): “We have watched with serious concern as Secretary Price rolled back collaborative delivery reform efforts over the past few months, including cancelling payment demonstrations supported by clinicians. This latest request for proposals is even more concerning. The Administration appears to have no vision beyond undermining Medicare. Secretary Price is soliciting comments for demonstrations that could increase costs and loosen protections for elderly Medicare patients, including allowing unlimited charges for medical services and voucherizing the program. We will continue to monitor the agency closely as it moves through the RFI process and the testing of any proposed models that could negatively impact Medicare beneficiaries. This is clearly the wrong direction and we urge CMS to continue the goals of delivery system reform that prioritizes value for beneficiaries, not special interests.” ###
09.20.2017	SPRINGFIELD, MA - U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement ahead of the potential Senate vote on the Cassidy-Graham bill: "As early as this week, the Senate may vote on the Cassidy-Graham health proposal — a new name but more of the same from Republicans: higher costs, more uninsured, and fewer protections for American families. This is yet another attempt to kill the Affordable Care Act that has benefitted Massachusetts and the rest of the US. What is deeply troubling, and less often focused on, is how this latest Republican effort would set back attempts to combat the opioid epidemic across the country. In Massachusetts alone, residents have seen a dramatic uptick in opioid-related overdose deaths from 2000-2016, spiking from 379 deaths in 2000 to 2,107 deaths in 2016. The four western counties of Massachusetts have been hit particularly hard. "Without access to treatment and recovery resources provided in the ACA, these numbers will surely continue their dangerous climb. People struggling with addiction can’t afford to have their insurance coverage taken away. Now is a time for us to come together and strengthen programs to fight addiction, not dismantle them. I know most of my colleagues in the Senate have constituents facing the grips of the opioid epidemic. I urge them to keep them in mind and vote against this short sighted proposal." ##
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Following Ways and Means Committee Democrats’ request last week to Chairman Brady to hold bipartisan hearings on stabilizing the individual health insurance market, Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) again pressed the Chairman to take action and hold hearings on this topic in the Ways and Means Committee. “Americans want Congress to put partisanship behind us and move forward with commonsense initiatives on health care that benefit all American families,” said Rep. Neal. “A bipartisan hearing would be a good first step to help stabilize individual insurance markets, lower health insurance premiums, shore up exchanges, and protect Medicaid.” “We must not ignore this Committee’s responsibility to take action to strengthen the individual insurance markets that have been weakened by the President’s actions and threats,” said Rep. Levin. “Republicans and Democrats in the Senate have begun to undertake such an effort. We should too.” The full text of the Committee Democrats’ letter can be found here. The text of Rep. Levin’s remarks at yesterday’s markup can be found here. ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after House Republicans announced they plan to unveil an updated tax reform framework the week of September 25: “Unfortunately the Republican tax principles we have seen so far have been largely vacuous, and I fear their updated framework to be released later this month will only be more of the same. When it comes to comprehensive tax reform, even the smallest details can have a huge impact on middle-class families. If President Trump and Congressional Republicans truly want to have tax reform that benefits the middle class, as they have said, then they shouldn’t be so fearful in releasing more specifics. It is discouraging that Republicans have yet to include Democrats in meaningful discussions on tax reform. I believe, however, that there is still time for actual bipartisanship in this process and I’m hopeful Republicans will include Democrats – expanding their so-called “Big Six” to a “Big Ten” – so that we can work together to provide tax relief for our middle class, invest in community colleges and infrastructure, and close loopholes that only benefit the wealthy and big corporations.” ###
09.13.2017	The Honorable Richard Neal Opening Statement Ways and Means Committee Health and Human Resources Markup September 13, 2017 Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that today we are marking up three non-controversial health care bills, and I commend my colleagues Mr. Nunes and Ms. Sewell, Mr. Marchant and Mr. Kind, and Ms. Black and Mr. Thompson for their hard work on these issues. The Black-Thompson bill would bring telehealth services into the Medicare Advantage system. I support this work but I hope that we can get a commitment to also do more work regarding telehealth in fee-for-service Medicare. I know there are challenges, but telehealth is an issue that deserves further exploration. The Marchant-Kind bill provides additional technical modifications to the Stark self-referral laws, building on the bipartisan work we did in July on this issue. This legislation provides some common-sense clarifications for providers, while maintaining important Medicare protections. The Nunes-Sewell bill would provide a five year extension for Medicare ambulance provider payments. This longer-term extension gives an opportunity to begin to get cost data from ambulances to better inform future policy decisions. I expect that like our mark up in July, the extender-related provisions will find their way into an end of the year health care extenders package. I want to take a moment to talk about extenders. I have great hope that we can continue our bipartisan work on this issue. Where I think we get hung up, and have in the past, is finding offsets. My main concern is Medicare beneficiaries, who tend to live on low, fixed incomes, and also Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries. In the past Congress enacted some policies shifting more costs on to seniors and I was not happy. I hope going forward we can agree that we shouldn’t be taking more money away from our constituents. Also, I suspect that every member on this committee has a hospital in their district – at least one – and I also bet you’re hearing from them about how they are feeling the squeeze and what that means for their bottom lines and ability to serve our communities—both for care and for good paying jobs. Our hospitals are there for our communities when we need them. But following the recent hurricanes, many hospitals were damaged in Florida, Puerto Rico, Texas, and the US Virgin Islands. This time our hospitals need us. I urge my Republican colleagues to protect the programs on which they rely rather than using them to pay for extenders. Now is not the time to play politics with hospitals. Unfortunately, today’s markup is not all bipartisan bills. H.R. 2824, which would reauthorize the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program (MIECHV, or Mick-Vee), represents a missed opportunity to build on a successful, bipartisan program. And H.R. 2792, which I understand the Majority plans to pair with H.R. 2824 before sending the bills to the floor, would cruelly take away the last lifeline for some of our poorest and most vulnerable seniors and people with severe disabilities. My Democratic colleagues and I strongly support reauthorizing MIECHV before authorization expires on September 30. Any delay would slow hiring or suspend new enrollment of families, in turn, undermining the important role the programs play in our communities. I was proud to be an original cosponsor of H.R. 3525, the Home Visiting Works Act, which would reauthorize MIECHV and double it’s funding over the next 5 years. My hometown of Springfield, Massachusetts is a good example of how MIECHV has helped communities. Massachusetts found that 31 percent of babies in Springfield were born to mothers with less than a high school education, poverty is more than two and a half times higher than in the rest of the state, and the rate of substance abuse is nearly double the state average. In part because of the opioid crisis, infant mortality is nearly twice as high, and the rate of serious child neglect is three times the state average. Massachusetts used MIECHV dollars to fund a continuum of home visiting services in Springfield which has benefited many families. Democrats can’t in good conscience support a MIECHV bill that would put home visiting services at risk in the communities that need them the most and paid for on the backs of our nation’s most vulnerable populations. Our side will offer amendments to correct problems with H.R. 2824 and to try to ensure that H.R. 2792 does not harm our constituents. I hope my Republican colleagues will agree to these amendments and we can move quickly to enact a clean reauthorization, without harmful and dangerous cuts.
09.08.2017	Springfield, MA – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal joined Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno this afternoon to announce the awarding of four grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Planning and Development Program totaling $5,392,632. “Congratulations to the City of Springfield and Mayor Sarno for the awarding of these grants,” said Representative Neal. “It is impressive to see Springfield receiving four diverse awards totaling well over $5 million. It is a testament to the hard work put in by the grant writers and staff. These monies will undoubtedly make a tremendous difference across the entire city for years to come.” Mayor Sarno stated, “I’m so very appreciative of Congressman Neal’s continued efforts to secure over $5 million in funding to our city. Being a former mayor, he knows these funds are a vital lifeline to urban mayors to put across youth development, business, economic development, job development, housing and medical assistance initiatives.” The City of Springfield was awarded the following: $3,440,019 in Community Development Block Grants (CDBG). The CDBG program provides annual grants to States and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons. $1,121,435 from the HOME program. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. $516,772 from the HOPWA program. The HOPWA program provides housing assistance and related supportive services to local units of government, States and non-profit organizations for projects that benefit low-income persons medically diagnosed with HIV/AIDS and their families. $314,406 from the Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program. The ESG program provides funding to engage homeless individuals and families living on the street; improve the number, quality and operations of emergency shelters for homeless individuals and families; provide essential services to shelter residents, rapidly re-house homeless individuals and families, and prevent families/individuals from becoming homeless. ##
09.07.2017	Congressman Richard E. Neal's opening statement at the markup of H.Res. 479: Of inquiry directing the Secretary of the Treasury to provide to the House of Representatives the tax return information of President Donald J. Trump as well as the tax returns of each business entity disclosed by Donald J. Trump on his Office of Government Ethics Form 278e. (Remarks as prepared) Thank you, Chairman Brady. I’d like to make a few short comments and then I will yield the remainder of my time to my colleague, Mr. Pascrell, to make an opening statement on his resolution. Mr. Pascrell’s resolution would direct the Treasury Secretary to provide the House with the personal and business tax returns and other financial information of President Trump. Let me refresh everyone’s memories on the facts here. Until recently, every President since Gerald Ford released their tax returns to the American public. President Gerald Ford released a summary of his tax returns. President Jimmy Carter. President Ronald Reagan. President George H.W. Bush. President Bill Clinton. President George W. Bush. President Barack Obama. Republican and Democratic Presidents. They all released their tax returns to the American people. This is not a partisan issue. The reason for releasing this information is to avoid conflicts of interest. Tax returns include important information about income and charitable giving and business interests, among other things. And this information is important for the American people to have so they know that their President is always acting in their best interest. Therefore, I support my friend Mr. Pascrell’s resolution. I believe it’s in our country’s best interest for our Presidents to release their tax returns. And with that, I yield the balance of my time to Mr. Pascrell. ###
09.07.2017	Pittsfield, MA – U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal will host a Town Hall forum on Friday, September 15, 2017 at Berkshire Community College's Robert Boland Theater. Doors will open at 5:00pm and the program will begin at 5:30pm. Berkshire Community College President Ellen Kennedy will be on hand to welcome visitors to campus. Following an update from Washington, D.C., constituents will have the opportunity to ask questions regarding federal issues. Representative Neal is the Ranking Member of the powerful Ways and Means Committee in the House of Representatives. As the top democrat, he advocates for the preservation and strengthening of such issues as health care and social security, and deals with all matters of tax and trade. Representative Neal has proudly represented Berkshire County since redistricting in 2012. Please RSVP for this event here: https://goo.gl/forms/MJ2AbB2wDTUKCQBK2. For more information go to www.berkshirecc.edu or if you require any special accommodations, please contact Jonah Sykes at 413-236-2116 or email jsykes@berkshirecc.edu. ##
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) today released the following statement about the U.S.-Korea trade agreement: “North Korea's latest nuclear test underscores yet again the vital importance of the strong alliance between the United States and South Korea. The U.S.-South Korea agreement (KORUS), negotiated under two presidents and approved by Congress, is a central element of that alliance. Just as important, South Korea is a significant economic partner, our seventh largest export market, and a vital customer for U.S. manufacturers, services providers, farmers, and ranchers. “Our trade relationship can be enhanced and, because KORUS’s operation has presented frustrations for some important U.S. industries and stakeholders, we must press South Korea to improve its implementation and compliance. To be effective and constructive, however, we must not withdraw from the agreement while we do so. We welcome bilateral discussions to strengthen the economic ties between South Korea and the United States, and we reiterate the importance of transparency and close consultation by the administration with Congress and American businesses and workers.” ###
09.05.2017	Springfield, MA - Following President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhoof Arrivals (DACA) Program, U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement: "President Trump’s decision to end DACA is disgraceful. Sending innocent DREAMers back to their home countries through no fault of their own is shameful. These individuals are our neighbors, friends, and family members. They have contributed to our communities in the hopes of attaining the American Dream. I urge Speaker Ryan and the Republican House leadership to bring the DREAM Act to the floor for a debate immediately." ##
09.03.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after North Korea staged a highly provocative test of a nuclear bomb in the Korean Peninsula. “North Korea’s latest test of a hydrogen bomb is highly provocative and in direct violation of international law. This is the sixth time Kim Jong Un has ignored the wishes of the international community and detonated a nuclear device in the Korean Peninsula. And this latest provocation, which triggered a massive earthquake in the region, was Pyongyang’s largest and most powerful test yet. While this is a serious national security crisis, strident and confrontational rhetoric will only raise tensions across the globe. I believe the United States, working with our allies and partners, must pursue a more comprehensive diplomatic response in an effort to avoid a military confrontation with North Korea in East Asia,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. ##
09.01.2017	(Springfield, MA) - Ahead of Labor Day, U.S. Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement: "As we look forward to celebrating Labor Day weekend with family and friends, let us not forget the real reason for the holiday. Our country would not be where it is today were it not for the American labor movement and the workers who have made tremendous strides for the betterment of our country. Thanks to the diligence of the American worker, our country continues to grow and prosper." ##
08.30.2017	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump delivered a speech about tax reform in Springfield, Missouri: “President Trump’s speech today in Missouri underscores the fundamental problems Republicans are facing when it comes to tax reform: they’re trying to do it alone, seemingly can’t agree on any specific policies, and time and again continue to resort to vague, decades-old talking points – like the President did today – instead of taking bold action. The President said today he wants to unrig the economy, which begs the question: unrig it for who? If President Trump’s previous tax plans are any indication, the wealthy and big corporations will be the ultimate winner at the expense of the middle class. I think this is the wrong approach. Giving huge tax cuts to businesses in the hopes that wealth will magically trickle down to hardworking Americans is pure folly, and not supported by the facts. Middle-class families have heard enough empty promises and rhetoric from Republicans. Democrats believe that now is the time to act on comprehensive tax reform. We stand ready to work in good faith with Republicans on real tax reform that provides tax relief and expands opportunities for middle-class families, closes the skills gap, and promotes middle-class job growth.” ###
08.21.2017	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Following President Donald J. Trump’s speech at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, Virginia, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement: “After nearly 16 years of conflict in Afghanistan, President Donald Trump now wants to extend the longest war in our nation’s history. Since 2002, the United States has spent nearly $5 trillion paying for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. More than 2,400 men and women of our Armed Services have lost their lives and thousands more have been wounded in what many regard as an endless cycle of military intervention. And tonight, the President announced his intention to put more American boots on the ground with no clearly defined mission. I do not minimize the threat posed by the Taliban, ISIS or Al Qaeda in the region and across the world. The tragic events last week in Barcelona are a stark reminder that we need to remain vigilant in the global war on terror. But at some point the Afghan security forces and police need to take control of their own future. The American people do not want to see our brave soldiers deployed indefinitely without an exit strategy.” ##
08.15.2017	SPRINGFIELD – Congressman Richard E. Neal announced a $663,202 grant from National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) to Baystate Medical Center on Tuesday. The grant comes from NIDA’s Drug Abuse and Addiction Research Program and will be used to fund the study “Drug Injection Surveillance and Care Enhancement for Rural Northern New England (DISCERNNE)”. “The awarding of this grant comes at a time when the opioid epidemic is at the forefront of conversation in America,” said Congressman Neal. “We all know someone who is suffering from addiction and we are dedicated to finding resources to help those who are struggling. The team at Baystate will use these monies to begin an important two-phase investigation into the opioid epidemic right here in New England. I commend them for their tireless work on this critical public health and safety issue.” Principal Investigator Dr. Peter Friedmann, Baystate’s Chief Research Officer, says that the first phase will examine the epidemiology, infectious consequences and service accessibility for persons who inject drugs in 10 rural counties adjacent to Interstate-91 in Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont. “The opioid epidemic has had a devastating impact on rural areas that lack the treatment and harm reduction resources necessary to respond,” said Friedmann. “This project, along with eight sister projects in rural areas around the country, will determine the scope of the problem and advance solutions that will work in those communities.” The second phase of this project will implement an integrated telemedicine approach to help local clinicians address opioid use disorder, infectious complications of opioid use disorder and overdose. ##
08.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today released the following statements after President Donald J. Trump instructed the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to begin a review of Chinese trade practices with the United States: Ranking Member Neal: “The theft of intellectual property and forcible transfer of proprietary technology perpetrated by China is an outrageous abuse that American companies have had to suffer, without recourse, for a very long time. Today’s instruction to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to review whether to undertake a Section 301 investigation into these practices is a first step in calling attention to this flagrantly unfair practice that China has been employing to its economic advantage at the expense of U.S. workers, companies, families, and the entire U.S. economy. If USTR launches an investigation, a Section 301 enforcement action would also be an important tool for calling China to task. “I hope that the Administration would fully consult interested parties and stakeholders that could benefit from and be affected by any investigation. And I expect the Administration would consult closely with me and my colleagues in Congress before taking any further steps in this matter and in its China enforcement agenda more broadly. Given the enormous and potentially existential challenge that China poses to American competitiveness and the world trading system, a Section 301 investigation cannot be the only step that this Administration takes to try to address that challenge. ” Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Pascrell: “While today’s announcement could eventually lead to aggressive action against China, I am concerned it will lead to only another investigation and report. The Trump Administration has called for report after report on the detrimental practices of our trading partners but hasn’t actually done anything about it. The time for action is now. There are numerous other actions that the Trump Administration could and should take immediately. The President should call for the passage of my enforcement bill, The Jobs and Trade Competitiveness Act, which would provide new tools to ensure that our trading partners are playing by the rules; and he should use existing tools to enforce the labor and environmental commitments our current trading partners are violating. American workers are waiting.” ###
08.12.2017	Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement regarding the violence in Charlottesville, VA. "The bigotry, hatred and intolerance in Charlottesville is wrong and contrary to core American values. There is no place for racism in our society." ##
08.11.2017	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Representative Richard E. Neal released the following statement after President Donald Trump declared the opioid epidemic a national emergency. “I am pleased that President Trump recently declared the opioid epidemic a national emergency. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, between 2006 and 2015, the number of individuals addicted to heroin nationwide jumped from 227,000 to 591,000 and prescription opioid addiction increased from 1.5 million to 2 million. In addition, opioid deaths nationwide have nearly tripled from 2002 to 2015. These numbers are staggering. Right here in Massachusetts, the opioid death rate is 17.0 per 100,000. Without action, these trends will continue their dangerous trajectory. The Affordable Care Act includes at least $45 billion for opioid addiction treatment and that would be lost if the measure was repealed. In Massachusetts alone, it is projected to cost $123 million to provide comprehensive coverage for all people treated for opioid use disorders in Massachusetts in 2026. An estimated 2.8 million people with substance use disorders, including those with an opioid disorder, could lose some or all of their coverage if the ACA’s Medicaid expansion is phased out. Over the past few years I have worked with my colleagues on important pieces of legislation such as the STOP Act and the Opioid Overdose Reduction Act to address the opioid addiction crisis. The STOP Act or the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention Act would enhance the U.S. Postal Service’s process of tracking shipments from foreign countries to detect synthetic drugs such as fentanyl and carfentanil. This would help curb these drugs from crossing our borders into the United States in the first place. The Opioid Overdose Reduction Act, a Good Samaritan-like bill, would exempt from civil liability individuals who provide or administer an opioid overdose drug under certain circumstances. In addition, I hosted President Obama's drug czar Michael Botticelli to brief the Massachusetts delegation about the crisis and how we could help. I also hosted the producer of the HBO Documentary ‘Heroin: Cape Cod, USA’ to multiple screenings across the First Congressional District and also to a screening and discussion with my Congressional colleagues in Washington. The time to take action against opioid abuse is now. I commend President Trump for taking this matter so seriously and look forward to working with him and my Congressional colleagues to address this critical public health and safety issue.” ##
08.01.2017	LEE, MA – United States Representative Richard E. Neal visited Berkshire Sterile Manufacturing Inc., a biopharmaceutical company established in Lee, Massachusetts to learn about how startup companies in the area are creating innovative new products and services and using technology to solve real-world problems. Representative Neal’s visit coincides with Startup Day Across America, a nationwide effort to raise awareness of entrepreneurial activity and job creation and help generate support for startup communities across the country. “I am proud to participate in Startup Day Across America to raise awareness of the great entrepreneurial activity and job creation happening right here in the First Congressional District of Massachusetts,” said Representative Neal. “Companies like Berkshire Sterile Manufacturing are creating high skilled jobs and putting incredibly important products into the marketplace. We need to continue to encourage the creation of these types of companies and assist in their growth in our region as they foster both a strong community and a strong economy.” Shawn Kinney, PhD., President of Berkshire Sterile Manufacturing said, “The BSM management team is excited to be in the Berkshires of Western Massachusetts producing new cutting edge injectable therapies for many diseases including cancer, macular degeneration, osteoarthritis and many others. The team picked Western Massachusetts to locate Berkshire Sterile Manufacturing for the quality of life and motivated workforce in Western Massachusetts. BSM was able to bring high paying biotechnology opportunities to an area in need of jobs. BSM has been assisted with financing by Berkshire Bank and MassDevelopment.” At the 116,000-square-foot headquarters in Lee, Berkshire Sterile focuses on manufacturing sterile drugs, filling syringes, vials, and cartridges, as well as providing formulation development and quality testing. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, firms less than one year old created 1.7 million jobs or 60% of total employment growth in 2015. More than half these jobs were from firms with fewer than 10 employees. These startup companies are involved in a variety of industries including technology, retail, healthcare, entertainment, consulting, and education. Startup Day Across America also provides local entrepreneurs with an opportunity to educate their elected officials about the challenges they are facing and discuss how federal policy can support their efforts to test new ideas, create new products, and grow their businesses. Entrepreneurs often take tremendous financial risks in order to move a business forward, and it is critical that local entrepreneurs know they have the support of their elected officials and community members. More information on Berkshire Sterile Manufacturing, Inc. can be found here. ##
07.27.2017	BOSTON - Today, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency celebrated the recipients of seven Brownfields grants in western Massachusetts. This year, entities in western Massachusetts received $2.4 million for assessment and cleanup of Brownfields sites. "EPA is committed to working with communities to redevelop Brownfields sites which have plagued their neighborhoods. EPA's Assessment and Cleanup grants target communities that are economically disadvantaged and include places where environmental cleanup and new jobs are most needed," said EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. "These grants leverage considerable infrastructure and other investments, improving local economies and creating an environment where jobs can grow. I am very pleased the President's budget recognizes the importance of these grants by providing continued funding for this important program." “These grants support Brownfields projects, which lead to neighborhood revitalization and job creation,” said Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection Commissioner Martin Suuberg. “Cleaning up contaminated brownfield sites is a win-win for everyone involved. MassDEP appreciates the funding and expertise USEPA Region 1 brings to the table and the willingness and determination of the municipalities to take on these projects.” “It is impressive to see so many communities in the First Congressional District of Massachusetts being awarded grants from the Environmental Protection Agency for Brownfields assessments and cleanups,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “The EPA has long been, and continues to be, a tremendous partner to communities in need. North Adams, Williamstown, Great Barrington, Chicopee, and the Berkshire Regional Planning Commission have all put in tremendous work to attain these funds that give each of these communities the opportunity to completely transform a space for economic growth and community well-being. I have seen first-hand what these EPA monies can do to spur change and renewal, and I am excited to see what these cities and towns have in store for their projects.” Belchertown Economic Development and Industrial Corporation EPA has selected the Belchertown Economic Development and Industrial Corporation for two brownfields cleanup grants totaling $400,000. Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to clean up Lots 1 and 2 of the former Belchertown State School located at 9 Berkshire Avenue. These lots are part of an 845-acre school complex that was founded in 1922 and closed in December 1992. It has been idle since then. The site is contaminated with PCBs and inorganic contaminants. Grant funds also will be used to support community engagement activities. Berkshire Regional Planning Commission EPA has selected the Berkshire Regional Planning Commission for two brownfields assessment grants totaling $300,000. Community-wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to conduct three Phase I and three to four Phase II environmental site assessments, and prepare one cleanup plan. Community-wide petroleum grant funds will be used to conduct two Phase I and one to two Phase II environmental site assessments, and prepare one cleanup plan. Grant funds of both types also will be used to inventory, evaluate, and prioritize brownfield sites, and support community outreach activities. Assessment activities will focus on the Cities of Pittsfield and North Adams. City of Chicopee EPA has selected the City of Chicopee for three Brownfields cleanup grants for $600,000. Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to clean up Buildings 15, 27, and 42 at the 28-acre former Uniroyal Tire Complex located at 154 Grove Street. The site was previously utilized as a lumber yard and as a manufacturing site for tires, bicycles, and adhesives. Building 15 was used as the power generation station for the Uniroyal Tire Complex and houses large turbines and transformers that utilized coal and oil to produce energy. The building is contaminated with arsenic, polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons, inorganic contaminants, and metals. Buildings 27 and 42 are connected and encompass a combined 77,750 square feet of vacant industrial manufacturing space. All three buildings are contaminated with mercury, PCBs, and hazardous substances. Grant funds also will be used to conduct community outreach, cleanup planning activities, and air monitoring following completion of the cleanup. City of North Adams EPA has selected the City of North Adams for two Brownfields assessment grants totaling $300,000. Community-wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to conduct two Phase I and three Phase II environmental site assessments, and prepare two cleanup plans. Community-wide petroleum grant funds will be used to conduct one Phase I and one Phase II environmental site assessment, and prepare one cleanup plan. Grant funds of both types also will be used to support community outreach activities. Town of Great Barrington EPA has selected the Town of Great Barrington for two Brownfields assessment grants totaling $300,000. Community-wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to conduct two Phase I and two or three Phase II environmental site assessments, and develop two cleanup plans. Community-wide petroleum grant funds will be used to conduct one or two Phase II environmental site assessments, and develop one cleanup plan. Grant funds of both types also will be used to support community involvement activities, including public meetings, outreach materials, and site fact sheets. Assessment activities will target sites within the Village of Housatonic in Great Barrington. Town of Williamstown EPA has selected the Town of Williamstown for a Brownfields cleanup grant for $200,000. Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to clean up the nearly five-acre former Photech Imaging Systems property at 330 Cole Avenue. The now vacant property was initially developed in 1865 as a textile mill known as the Williamstown Mill and was later used by photographic paper and film manufacturing companies until 1989. The site is contaminated with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, heavy metals, and inorganic contaminants. Grant funds also will be used for air monitoring and community engagement activities. City of Worcester EPA has selected the City of Worcester for two Brownfields assessment grants totaling $300,000. Community-wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to conduct five Phase I and five Phase II environmental site assessments, and develop five cleanup plans. Community-wide petroleum grant funds will be used to conduct three Phase I and two Phase II environmental site assessments, and develop two cleanup plans. Grant funds of both types also will be used to support community outreach activities. Across the six New England states this year, EPA is awarding a total of $10.4 million for 32 communities to assess or cleanup brownfields, as well as $750,000 for technical assistance to six communities. A brownfield is a property for which the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. There are estimated to be more than 450,000 brownfields in the U.S. Cleaning up and reinvesting in these properties increases local tax bases, facilitates job growth, utilizes existing infrastructure, takes development pressures off of undeveloped, open land, and both improves and protects the environment. In New England, since the beginning of the Brownfields program, EPA has awarded 382 assessment grants totaling $103.9 million, 73 revolving loan fund grants and supplemental funding totaling $90 million and 290 cleanup grants totaling $69.9 million. These grant funds have paved the way for more than $2.4 billion in public and private cleanup and redevelopment investment and for nearly 15,499 jobs in assessment, cleanup, construction and redevelopment. As of May 2017, more than 124,759 jobs and $24 billion of public and private funding has been leveraged as a result of assessment grants and other EPA Brownfields grants. On average, $16.11 was leveraged for each EPA Brownfields dollar and 8.5 jobs leveraged per $100,000 of EPA brownfields funds expended on assessment, cleanup, and revolving loan fund cooperative agreements. What They Are Saying: Chicopee, MA: “The U.S. EPA and the City of Chicopee have been long-term partners with regards to the on-going cleanup activities at the former Uniroyal property. Through assistance from the EPA’s Brownfields program the City has been able to advance significant efforts to cleanup hazardous building materials in preparation for building demolition or redevelopment. This year’s awards build upon completed activities bringing the City closer to realizing its redevelopment objectives for the property.” - Mayor Richard Kos Berkshire Regional Planning Commission: “The Berkshire Regional Planning Commission greatly appreciates the award of these EPA Brownfields Assessment funds which are much needed throughout the region. The Berkshire Regional Planning Commission has a long and successful track record with Brownfields assessment, remediation, and reuse planning. However, there is still much work to be done. We anticipate that these funds will be used toward sites that are currently underway and to advance sites in areas of the region that we have not yet assessed. Assessment funding is a critical first step toward addressing a wide range of sites that may be vacant, underused and potentially posing safety hazards to the community. Through this funding these sites can ultimately be put back into productive use. We are very grateful to the EPA and look forward to working closely with the EPA on this important project” - Nathaniel Karns, Executive Director City of North Adams: “The City of North Adams has made significant investment in planning for its future recently completing a comprehensive plan (North Adams Vision 2030). Despite this significant planning effort, assessment is sorely needed in order to advance developable parcels toward cleanup and redevelopment. As a small City, we have very limited sources to fund the sort of proactive work that our $300,000 grant will provide. The City is very thankful to have received these funds as they will provide the incentives for new investment, higher property values, an expanded tax base, and future job creation.” - Mayor Richard Alcombright Town of Williamstown: "The Town of Williamstown is excited to have been among the communities selected for Brownfield Cleanup funding in this grant cycle. This funding will allow a property that has been a burden on a critically important neighborhood in our community for nearly 30 years to finally be returned to productive usage. This EPA funding will allow our community partners, Berkshire Housing and the Women's Institute for Housing, to begin the first stages of converting this parcel into much needed affordable housing for a broad cross section of our residents." - Town Manager Jason Hoch Town of Great Barrington: “This grant for Brownfields assessments will go a long way toward helping the Town of Great Barrington realize the goals of its Master Plan. As a historic community with rich architecture, ensuring the cleanliness of our land and water sources will help the community thrive and ensure the responsible redevelopment and use of our historic sites. With this grant, historic buildings will be positioned to remain vital parts of our economy into the future. We are grateful to the EPA for this much-needed grant and we extend our sincere thanks to Congressman Richard Neal and Representative Smitty Pignetelli who are steadfast in their support of Great Barrington and the success of Berkshire County." - Jennifer Tabakin Town Manager Belchertown Economic Development Industrial Corporation: “This grant will enable the Belchertown Economic Development Industrial Corporation to clean up two parcels at the former Belchertown State School, furthering the revitalization of this neglected area into a vibrant mixed-use neighborhood." - Town Administrator Gary Brougham City of Worcester: “The City of Worcester is grateful to be awarded $300,000 in community-wide assessment funding from the U.S. EPA Brownfields Program. These funds are a critical component of the City’s brownfields redevelopment efforts and overall economic development strategy. We look forward to continued success and partnership with the EPA.” - Edward M. Augustus, Jr., City Manager. More information: List of the FY 2017 Applicants Selected for Funding (www.epa.gov/brownfields/brownfields-list-fy17-grants-selected-funding) EPA's brownfields program (www.epa.gov/brownfields) EPA's work on brownfields in New England (www.epa.gov/brownfields/brownfields-and-land-revitalization-connecticut-maine-massachusetts-new-hampshire-rhode) More on successful Brownfields stories (www.epa.gov/brownfields/brownfields-success-stories) Contact Us to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after Congressional Republicans and the Administration released a joint statement on tax reform: “It’s disappointing that Republicans are moving forward with a rewrite of our tax code by excluding Democrats from the process. We all agree that the tax code isn’t working for middle-class families but the past has shown that for tax reform to be successful, it must be undertaken in a truly bipartisan manner. If Republicans continue this partisan process, they are doomed to repeat the same mistakes they have made trying to upend our health care system. It’s time we work together to produce tax reform that benefits the middle class, grows our economy, helps hardworking families, and ensures that the wealthy and big corporations pay their fair share. Tax reform needs to be built from the middle out, not the top down, and Democrats will be ready to work with Republicans to make this a reality – if they put aside the failed supply-side economics of the past.” ###
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in opposition to a Congressional Budget Office (CBO) amendment to H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act: (Remarks as prepared) “Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this or any amendment to defund or undermine the Congressional Budget Office. “The CBO plays a vital role in the legislative process. Members and staff on both sides of the aisle rely on CBO’s hardworking and non-partisan analysts to provide fair, impartial, and fact-based analysis. Without that analysis, Congress could not do its work. What we are doing is the equivalent to beating up the referee in a soccer game. That is unacceptable. “Regardless of political party, we all love the House of Representatives and want to keep it strong. Chairman Brady stood with me to stress that we need to maintain a strong, independent Congressional Budget Office. I encourage my colleagues to do the same. “I yield back the balance of my time.” Watch here. ###
07.26.2017	Washington, D.C. –Yesterday, House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard E. Neal joined Chairman Kevin Brady (D-TX) to pass from the House H.R. 3178, The Medicare Part B Improvement Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill to build on an already successful program. Congressman Neal said, “The American people sent us here to get things done. H.R. 3178 is an example of how Democrats and Republicans can work together and create thoughtful, realistic policies. I stand ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to develop forward thinking health care proposals that help Americans across the age and economic spectrum.” Specifically, H.R. 3178 brings together a number of important measures, all aimed at improving this important program. It includes a common sense transitional policy for home infusion services, streamlines Medicare rules to improve access to medically necessary prosthetics and orthotics, and helps dialysis facilities improve backlogs so they can more efficiently treat end-stage renal disease. It also allows telehealth so patients can receive dialysis in the comfort of their own home and includes language to provide more certainty for Medicare providers. The passage of this bill is in stark contrast to what the United States Senate was doing—voting to bring up measures that would take away health insurance from millions, harm Medicaid, increase health insurance premiums on middle-class Americans, and impose an age tax on seniors. Congressman Neal concluded, “This is a common sense, bipartisan bill that does a number of things to improve Medicare Part B. I was pleased to work with Chairman Brady and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make this legislation a reality.” A link to Congressman Neal’s floor speech can be found here. ##
07.25.2017	(Remarks As Prepared) Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3178, the Medicare Part B Improvement Act of 2017. I am pleased Chairman Brady along with Health Subcommittee Chairman Tiberi and Ranking Member Levin and I worked in a bipartisan manner to draft this bill. It brings together a number of important measures to improve Medicare Part B. I encourage my colleagues to also support it. As I said during the bipartisan Ways and Means Committee markup of H.R. 3178, I hope committees hold more meetings like this. This is what the American people want and expect from their members—to get things done in a bipartisan manner. The bill before us today is pretty straightforward—it makes important changes to Medicare Part B in a number ways. It includes a common sense transitional policy for home infusion services cosponsored by Mr. Tiberi and Mr. Pascrell. Our colleagues Mr. Bishop and Mr. Mike Thompson are cosponsors of language to streamline Medicare rules to improve access to medically necessary prosthetics and orthotics. Mr. John Lewis cosponsored language to help dialysis facilities improve backlogs so they can more efficiently treat end-stage renal disease. Ms. DelBene and Mr. Mike Thompson are cosponsors of a bill that allows telehealth so patients can receive dialysis in the comfort of their own home. Finally, the measure includes clarification language to Stark laws that Mr. Kind led to provide more certainty for Medicare providers. Our colleagues on both sides of the aisle worked hard on these bills and I am pleased we can move them in a bipartisan manner. I encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 3178 and I yield back the balance of my time.
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) today sent a letter to Rhonda Schmidtlein – Chairman of the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) – with comments for the Commission as it prepares to issue its final Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB) report in August. The lawmakers’ comments come after these House and Senate leaders reviewed the ITC’s preliminary MTB report and met with petitioners about thenew process established by the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (AMCA) of 2016. “The Committees appreciate the tremendous amount of time and resources that the ITC has dedicated to the new Miscellaneous Tariff Bill process and are confident in the objectivity of its analysis,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter. “We look forward to receiving the ITC’s final report, preparing legislation in consultation with Members of Congress, and providing relief to U.S. manufacturers and consumers later this year.” The lawmakers offered comments for the ITC’s consideration regarding the analysis of domestic availability and consideration of additional information. Full text of the letter below: July 21, 2017 The Honorable Rhonda K. Schmidtlein Chairman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20436 Dear Chairman Schmidtlein: In accordance with the American Manufacturing and Competitiveness Act of 2016, the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Committee on Finance have reviewed the thorough preliminary report prepared by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) concerning the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB) process. As you know, the Act requires the ITC to consider in the preparation of its final report any additional information submitted by the Committees that may support moving petitions listed in Category VI in the preliminary report into Category I, II, III, or IV. This letter is intended to provide such information. The Committees, having met with dozens of petitioners regarding their petitions and the new process, offer the following overarching comments for the ITC’s consideration as it prepares its final report. Analysis of Domestic Availability: Congress passed the Act for the express purpose of “remov[ing] the competitive disadvantage to United States manufacturers and consumers and to promote the competitiveness of United States manufacturers.” To achieve this goal, the Act provides for a transparent, open, and fair process for the consideration of petitions for duty suspensions and reductions. Necessity of Evidence: Any determination that domestic production exists must be based on a demonstration by the domestic producer of production or imminent production in the United States of an identical, like, or directly competitive article. Accordingly, the Committees emphasize that blanket assertions regarding domestic production without evidence demonstrating such production should be deemed insufficient. This is especially important in instances in which an objection was raised with the Department of Commerce (Commerce) and the information contained in the objection was not made available to the public. In such instances, petitioners are unaware of the objector’s identity and the grounds for objection and thus may be unable to meaningfully respond to the objection. Imminent Production: Consistent with section 220.2(i) of the ITC’s regulations, objections based upon “imminent production” should include some evidence demonstrating that “production [is] planned to begin within 3 years of the date on which the petition is filed.” In other words, an objection based upon imminent production must demonstrate more than that production is theoretically possible. Analysis by the Department of Commerce: Several petitioners raised concerns that the ITC and Commerce were inconsistent in their application of what constituted an “identical, like, or directly competitive” article. These agencies both have considerable expertise in conducting such analyses. At the same time, the Committees note that in both the preliminary and final reports, the determination of whether there is domestic production of an identical, like, or directly competitive article is made by the ITC. While the ITC must take into account Commerce’s findings, the report must reflect the conclusions of the ITC, and the ITC should not automatically substitute another agency’s conclusions for its own. Consideration of Additional Information: The Committees appreciate that the ITC reopened its portal so that petitioners could address domestic objections and administrability concerns to the greatest extent possible. In keeping with the spirit of the Act, this opportunity provided a fair and transparent way for petitioners to provide additional information to the ITC prior to issuing the final report. While we understand the significant time constraint that the ITC is under to prepare its final report, the Committees understand and expect that the ITC is analyzing the additional information and working with Commerce and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to determine whether a petition should be moved to Category I, II, III, or IV in the final report. The Committees urge the ITC, with the assistance of the other agencies, to continue working to resolve any issues regarding the sufficiency of the additional information. Further, the Committees expect that the ITC is continuing to communicate with petitioners regarding questions it may have concerning any additional information provided during the reopening of the portal so that it can conduct a complete analysis. This will ensure that the ITC’s reopening of the portal was not only fair and transparent, but also meaningful. The Committees appreciate the tremendous amount of time and resources that the ITC has dedicated to the new Miscellaneous Tariff Bill process and are confident in the objectivity of its analysis. We look forward to receiving the ITC’s final report, preparing legislation in consultation with Members of Congress, and providing relief to U.S. manufacturers and consumers later this year. Cc: David S. Johanson, Vice Chairman Irving A. Williamson, Commissioner Meredith M. Broadbent, Commissioner ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a score of Senate Republicans’ updated health care bill: “Congressional Republicans and President Trump have no idea what they want to do with their health care bill, other than exclude Democrats and continue to make this a partisan issue. And today, the CBO once again confirmed what the public has known all along: no matter how many times we see a different Republican health plan, we always get the same terrible result. Senate Republicans’ latest bill would take away health insurance from 22 million Americans. It’s time for Republicans to take a hint from the CBO and the American people, and join Democrats in working on solutions that will demonstrably improve health care for all Americans. When will Republicans finally wake up?” ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the failure of Senate Republicans' health care bill and announcement that they plan to vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act without a replacement plan: “Once again, Republicans have failed with their reckless attempts to take away health insurance from millions of hardworking families, children, and seniors. Instead of working with Democrats to improve health care in this country, Senate Republicans drafted a heartless bill in secret without any hearings, markups, or public input – and the results speak for themselves. Now President Trump and Leader McConnell are trying to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no replacement plan, which would cause 32 million Americans to lose their health insurance. Rather than taking this senseless approach, Republicans should listen to the overwhelming majority of Americans who want Republicans to join Democrats in working on bipartisan health care solutions that build on the Affordable Care Act's successes in an open and transparent process. That's the only way we'll actually make meaningful improvements to help lower premiums for the middle class, lower prescription drug costs, and protect Medicare and Medicaid for seniors, children, and folks living with disabilities. That's what the American people deserve.” ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today released the following statements after the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) published a summary of objectives for the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): Ranking Member Neal: “The summary of objectives published today raises more questions than it answers. In certain areas, there continues to be a complete lack of clarity or specificity, suggesting the Administration may not even know what it wants in a new NAFTA. And in other areas, the objectives reveal an approach to trade negotiations that looks like the same, conventional approach taken in previous trade agreements – suggesting that the “new” NAFTA might not be new at all. “The gravest concern, however, raised by today’s summary is that the Administration is seeking to modernize NAFTA without any plan for how it will create jobs, raise living standards, and help hardworking, middle-class families in America. I urge the Administration to figure out its game plan quickly and actually work closely with Congress to make sure that there are good answers for these questions.” Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Pascrell: “Oddly, the President and I were in agreement when he promised to re-negotiate NAFTA to get a better deal for American workers and bring good-paying jobs back to our manufacturing base. But today’s negotiating objectives reads like President Trump is only seeking to bevel the edges of a trade pact in need of an overhaul. In fact, it looks as if he wants to take the contents of the TPP, a deal he rejected in his first week in office, and call it NAFTA. Lax labor laws and low wages abroad and currency manipulation have allowed other countries to hollow out American manufacturing and sap our economy of jobs – so the NAFTA objectives need to put these issues front and center. We need real change in our trade agreements, but the Trump Administration seems more interested in selling American workers a bill of goods while they pursue policies that protect the status quo.” ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) today urged United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer to closely consult with Congress during discussions with South Korea regarding the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). The lawmakers’ letter comes after Ambassador Lighthizer requested to convene a meeting of the KORUS Joint Committee. The Members wrote: “We write to urge you to consult closely with Congress before meeting with Korea and throughout your discussions on these matters, in accordance with U.S. law and longstanding practice. Furthermore, we emphasize the importance of adhering to the requirements established in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015.” They continued: “However, while KORUS established a Joint Committee under Article 22.2 to supervise implementation, consider ways to further enhance trade relations between the Parties, and consider amendments to the Agreement, the United States cedes no sovereignty to the Joint Committee. Indeed, any changes affecting the United States resulting from the work of that Joint Committee cannot take effect unless either the President exercises his authorities as delegated to him by Congress or Congress makes changes to U.S. statutes. And, even where the President exercises authorities that Congress has already delegated, Congress fully expects to be consulted in the exercise of those authorities.” Full text of the letter below: July 17, 2017 The Honorable Robert E. Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: The U.S. trade agreement with South Korea remains a key cornerstone of U.S. economic and strategic engagement in the Asia-Pacific region. Preserving and strengthening the strong economic relationship between the United States and South Korea is particularly important today with rising tensions on the Korean peninsula. In light of the President’s statements following his June meeting with President Moon and your request to convene a meeting of the KORUS Joint Committee with the stated aim of “consider[ing] matters affecting the operation of the Agreement, including possible amendments and modifications” and “follow-on negotiations,” we write to urge you to consult closely with Congress before meeting with Korea and throughout your discussions on these matters, in accordance with U.S. law and longstanding practice. Furthermore, we emphasize the importance of adhering to the requirements established in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015. There are a host of areas in which our trade relationship with Korea can be enhanced. A high-level dialogue with Korea also presents an opportunity to address longstanding concerns with respect to implementation of existing commitments on automotive trade, services, customs, and other key matters. However, while KORUS established a Joint Committee under Article 22.2 to supervise implementation, consider ways to further enhance trade relations between the Parties, and consider amendments to the Agreement, the United States cedes no sovereignty to the Joint Committee. Indeed, any changes affecting the United States resulting from the work of that Joint Committee cannot take effect unless either the President exercises his authorities as delegated to him by Congress or Congress makes changes to U.S. statutes. And, even where the President exercises authorities that Congress has already delegated, Congress fully expects to be consulted in the exercise of those authorities. Accordingly, for the proposed special session of the Joint Committee to be successful, the Administration must consult closely with the Chairs and Ranking Members of the committees of jurisdiction, and Congress more broadly, throughout the process. By statute, the U.S. Trade Representative is to report directly to the Congress and be responsible to the Congress for the administration of trade agreement programs. U.S. law and longstanding practice establishes detailed and specific Congressional consultation requirements in the context of trade agreements. These consultation requirements stem from the Constitutional authority of Congress over U.S. trade policy and allow the United States to demonstrate to the world a Congressional and Executive Branch partnership over trade policy. Such a unified front serves the United States well in any discussions with our trading partners, demonstrating a shared purpose and resolve that will result in better outcomes for the United States. We look forward to meeting with you as soon as possible to hear your views concerning the trade agreements program generally and to discuss your goals and ours for the special session of the Joint Committee that you have requested. ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after Senate Republicans unveiled a revised version of their health care bill: “This revised version of Senate Republicans’ health care bill is nothing but more of the same harmful and outdated policies that the American people overwhelmingly don’t want, Republicans don’t want, and virtually the entire medical community doesn’t want. This legislation still takes away insurance from millions of Americans, dramatically undermines protections for pre-existing conditions, imposes an age tax on seniors, hurts local hospitals, and makes hundreds of billions of dollars in cuts to Medicaid, harming families, children, and seniors. Democrats are eager for Republicans to join us in finding ways to work together to actually improve health care in this country. The American people have been calling on us to come together and build on the success of the Affordable Care Act. It’s time to listen to our constituents and get to work.” ###
07.13.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Mr. Chairman, thanks for holding this bipartisan markup today. I hope we hold more meetings like these—this is what the American people want and expect from their members—to get things done in a bipartisan manner. I am pleased that you and I were able to work together to develop these common sense bills to improve Medicare and the rules governing civil asset forfeiture proceedings. The first bill we’ll consider today is the Medicare Part B Improvement Act-- a collection of bipartisan low or no cost Medicare Part B policies recently introduced in the House. Chairman Brady and I, Health Subcommittee Members Chairman Tiberi and Ranking Member Levin, are original cosponsors of the overarching measure and I encourage my colleagues to support it. Specifically, the bill includes a common sense transitional policy for home infusion services led by Mr. Tiberi and Mr. Pascrell to help ensure access to home infusion for Medicare beneficiaries. It also includes a measure cosponsored by our colleagues Mr. Bishop and Mr. Thompson to streamline Medicare rules to improve access to medically necessary prosthetics and orthotics. Mr. Lewis is the leader on language to address accreditation process backlogs for dialysis facilities that treat end-stage renal disease. And our colleagues Ms. DelBene and Mr. Thompson are cosponsors of a bill to allow telehealth for patients who receive dialysis at home. The measure also includes clarification language to Stark laws that Mr. Kind led to provide more certainty for Medicare providers. The second health bill we will consider today is HR 3168, introduced by Mr. Tiberi and Mr. Levin to modify and extend the Medicare Special Needs Plans, or SNPs. This bill makes a few minor policy changes consistent with recommendations from MedPAC. While not all our members have SNPs operating in their districts, we all understand and recognize their importance. I am proud to have a number of SNPS that reside in or serve residents in my district. The third bill we’ll consider today is oversight legislation sponsored by Mr. Crowley and Mr. Roskam that passed the House unanimously last September. The proposal ties back to the Bank Secrecy Act, which set up reporting obligations for certain activities such as depositing more than $10,000 in cash. Unfortunately, some taxpayers engaged in legal activities got tangled in these proceedings because they were frequently depositing cash sales as part of their normal, legitimate business plan. Until 2014, the IRS took a hard line and pursued civil asset forfeiture against taxpayers when the money used for structured deposits was acquired legally or illegally, but they have since stopped the practice. This legislation would codify the present approach and stipulate that any interest paid on returned property is nontaxable. I thank all the bill sponsors for their hard work on these bills. Thank you Mr. Chairman, again, for working with me on this markup. I encourage my colleagues to support all of the measures before us today and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement on the 2017 Medicare Trustees Report and 2017 Social Security Trustees Report: “Today’s Medicare Trustees Report confirms that Medicare is strong and continues to provide high-quality health care to millions of seniors and Americans living with disabilities. As the report points out, thanks to the Affordable Care Act and MACRA, the life of the Medicare Trust Fund was extended by more than a decade. Democrats will continue to stand up for beneficiaries, oppose Republican efforts to privatize and cut Medicare, and work to strengthen and secure the program for future generations. “Today’s Social Security Trustees Report shows continued stability for Social Security – whose benefits Americans earn through their hard work every day. Social Security is critical to Americans’ economic security and we should be working on a bipartisan basis to further strengthen it, not make drastic and arbitrary cuts. That’s why I will continue to oppose President Trump’s budget, which called for cuts of more than $60 billion from Social Security. And in Congress, I’ll continue to push back against our Social Security Subcommittee Chairman’s plan to cut benefits for middle class retirees by 30 percent or more. Despite how Republican proposals make it seem, Social Security is not some government handout – it’s a benefit that hardworking Americans earn.” ###
07.13.2017	Washington, DC - Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-Mass.), and 71 of their congressional colleagues today introduced the Refund Equality Act of 2017. This legislation would ensure that legally-married same-sex couples - who until the U.S. Supreme Court's 2013 Windsor decision were barred from filing federal taxes jointly - are permitted to file amended tax returns back to the date of their marriage. "For nearly a decade, legally married same-sex couples had to file their taxes as single persons, often paying more taxes than they would owe if they could file as married," Senator Warren said. "This bill is a simple fix to allow same-sex couples to claim the tax refunds they earned but were denied because of who they love." "All legally married couples in this country deserve to be treated equally," said Representative Neal. "This bill would codify into law an important correction that would enable same-sex married couples to go back and claim the tax refunds and credits for which they qualify. The Supreme Court has ruled as such, and now it's time for Congress to act and make sure all Americans are treated with the fairness and equality they deserve under the law." Currently, married couples who previously filed taxes separately are permitted to file amended joint returns dating back up to three years, and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) lacks the authority to override this limitation. As a result, same-sex couples who were married in jurisdictions recognizing same-sex marriage prior to Windsor are unable to claim refunds for years they were legally married. The Refund Equality Act would permit these couples to amend their tax returns for these years, allowing them to file jointly and to secure an estimated total of $67 million in refunds to which they are entitled. The legislation is cosponsored by 32 senators, including Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Chris Coons (D-Del), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Tom Carper (D-Del.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Jack Reed (D-R.I), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.). Additionally, 39 members of the House of Representatives cosponsored the legislation. A fact sheet on the legislation is available here. The bill text is available here. ##
07.06.2017	GREAT BARRINGTON – Congressman Richard E. Neal joined Doreen Hutchinson, Vice President of Operations, and Fairview Hospital staff this morning to announce a $99,871 Grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Rural Health Network Development Planning Grant Program. “Rural communities face particular challenges in organizing and delivering high quality care,” saidCongressman Neal. “One of the little-known benefits of the Affordable Care Act has been new funding and initiatives to improve care coordination and better align incentives to promote high quality health care. While in Massachusetts strides have been made to work with providers like hospitals and physicians to deliver better care to our rural areas, there is still a clear need to bridge the divide between access and care. This grant provides critical funds to Fairview Hospital to develop efficient, forward thinking health delivery strategies in a collaborative manner. Not only that, but also an opportunity to measure strategy outcomes and so there is a base on which to build future programs. “The very law that Republicans in Congress now seek to repeal is what has enabled this critical opportunity for our local hospital,” continued Congressman Neal. “But now Congress is considering legislation that will directly harm rural areas by raising the number of residents without insurance coverage and shifting more health care costs on to working families. Republicans are also creating more angst and uncertainty to our nation's health care delivery system, including in rural America. Should the Republican health proposal become law, it would devastate rural communities and the hospitals that serve them.” Doreen Hutchinson, BSN, MBA, CNAA-BC, Vice President of Operations at Fairview Hospital said, “Rural residents face many barriers in accessing health care services. Fairview is proud to receive the SBC HPN grant to assist local healthcare providers and social support services develop a stronger network targeting delivery of care to those who are often underserved. Our goal is an assessment-based, interdisciplinary collaboration of organizations expanding upon the partnerships which already play an important role in providing needed rural healthcare services with limited resources. The SBC HPN grant will effectively improve quality, cost-effectiveness, and ultimately the health status of individuals as well as the community as a whole.” The purpose of the Network Planning program is to assist in the development of an integrated healthcare network, specifically in communities where such programs have never previously existed. The Network Planning program promotes the planning and development of healthcare networks in order to: achieve efficiencies; expand access to, coordinate, and improve the quality of essential health care services; and strengthen the rural health care system as a whole. ##
06.26.2017	SPRINGFIELD – Today, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after the Baker-Polito Administration awarded $4.5 million for “Last Mile” broadband connectivity projects including $2.1 million to Becket; $890,000 to Chesterfield; $280,000 to New Ashford; and $490,000 to Washington. Through the Last Mile Infrastructure Grant Program, municipalities are able to design, engineer, and construct their own broadband networks in their respective communities. This grant program is designed to spur implementation of broadband internet in these underserved areas. With the Baker-Polito announcement today, a total of 16 towns and over 10,000 homes and businesses have received funding. “I am pleased that the Baker-Polito Administration has continued to dedicate funds for these underserved communities across the state and especially right here in the First Congressional District,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “The acquisition of high speed broadband networks in these areas would not only help our schools and businesses. Having access to affordable broadband would also be a huge driver of economic development in these rural towns. I thank the Baker-Polito Administration for their commitment to regional equity and remain steadfast in my role as an active supporter on the federal level.” ##
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a score of the Senate Republicans’ health care bill: “Today’s CBO score has pulled back the curtain of Senate Republicans’ health care bill: it’s about giving huge tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires and dismantling important middle class programs like Medicaid and Medicare, all in the name of ‘health care reform.’ Senate Republicans foolishly followed the lead of House Republicans by drafting this bill in complete secrecy, without a single hearing, markup, or any public input. The result is a bill that would cause 22 million Americans to lose their health insurance and is opposed by virtually the entire medical community, including advocacy groups for patients, seniors, hospitals, nurses, and rural health care providers. And not only that, this bill would also impose an age tax on seniors, remove key protections for pre-existing conditions, and decimate the Medicaid program, which would harm children, seniors in long-term care, and middle class families across the country. Senate Republicans should use today’s CBO report as an opportunity to go back to the drawing board and instead work with Democrats to strengthen our nation’s health care system.” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today released the following statements after a Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) panel issued its report regarding Guatemala’s compliance with the labor provisions in CAFTA: “Today’s decision is detrimental to the global trading system and flies in the face of the facts on the ground in Guatemala and a reasonable interpretation of the labor provisions in CAFTA,” said Ranking Member Neal. “The panel simply got it wrong. Its rationale casts serious doubt on the effectiveness of many obligations in our trade agreements – beyond just labor and environmental provisions. The decision is another disappointing instance in a long line of cases in which international trade tribunals have seemed more interested in promoting completely unfettered trade, rather than enforcing the rules.” “This case was a slam dunk. Guatemala is one of the worst countries in the world for workers, where the average wage is lower than the legal minimum wage,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Pascrell. “This dubious track record was a primary reason I voted against CAFTA. Yet, inconceivably, this tribunal decided to conclude that Guatemala was living up to the labor obligations in CAFTA. The decision takes the enforcement of labor commitments in trade agreements to a new low. Not only did the dispute take more than nine years to conclude, but it raises new questions about the basic meaning of labor and other provisions in our trade agreements. We cannot let trade agreements allow a race to the bottom on labor standards. More must be done by the Congress and this Administration to effectively enforce our trade agreements.” ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after Senate Republicans unveiled their health care bill: “Republican Senators have taken an already ‘mean’ bill and made it even meaner. Despite seven years of promises, the Senate Republicans’ health care plan would not lower costs, would not provide health and financial security to working families, and would not help solve ongoing public health crises, like the opioid epidemic. This heartless bill would instead shift more of the financial burden of health care onto the backs of middle class families, while at the same time dramatically slash important programs, like Medicare and Medicaid, that seniors and working people depend upon. By crafting this partisan plan in secrecy, far from the view of the American public, and presenting it today without so much as a single public hearing, it’s clear that Senate Republicans learned nothing from the ‘go-it-alone’ strategy that Republicans used in the House. It’s disheartening that Senate Republicans didn’t seize this opportunity to sit down with Democrats, their own colleagues and, most importantly, their constituents to engage in good faith discussions on ways to further improve our health care system in a manner that continues to bring down costs, cover more people and expand important consumer protections.” ###
06.22.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Ambassador Lighthizer, I want to welcome you on behalf of the Committee Democrats. Today’s hearing is an opportunity for us to hear from you about the Administration’s vision for the U.S. trade agenda. The Administration has been busy on trade. The headlines these past few months have been filled with stories about modernizing NAFTA, withdrawing from NAFTA, Executive Orders and Executive Memos, Section 232 national security reviews on steel and aluminum imports, Canada dairy, Mexican sugar, and the U.S.-China 100 Day Plan. What we’ve been missing is the overall vision as well as the specifics behind all of this activity. What are the Administration’s trade policy goals? Whose interests are you trying to serve? How are you going to do it? We are looking to you for answers. On a range of issues, there has been a lack of clarity, consistency, and consultation. For example, by statute, the Administration was required to submit a report on the trade policy agenda by March 1st. On that date, the Administration instead submitted a “statement” and promised to submit a full report after the USTR was confirmed and had a full opportunity to participate in developing the report. That report still has not been submitted to Congress. So I hope you will clarify the Administration’s position on the full range of trade issues today, from the specific objectives of a NAFTA rewrite, to the Administration’s position on negotiating TTIP and an Environmental Goods Agreement, to how the Administration will address currency manipulation, to the Administration’s current thinking in the steel and aluminum national security investigations. As you know, House Democrats have some of the most open minds when it comes to re-visiting and taking new directions in U.S. trade policy. We look forward to working with you to prioritize the needs of American workers and families through our trade policy. ###
06.20.2017	(Remarks as prepared) I am pleased to support H.R. 2487, the Improving Services for Older Youth in Foster Care Act, which would help ensure that all the resources Congress has provided to help older foster youth are used to help them further their education and become independent. My colleague, Karen Bass, has been a leader on this legislation and on foster youth issues for a number of years, and our Committee has worked closely with her to move it forward today. I want to note that this is one of five bills the House is considering today to help at-risk families and children in foster care. All of these bills passed the House last year as part of the Family First Prevention Services Act, which also provided significant new investment in substance abuse, mental health, and parenting skills services to help kids and families avoid foster care, when possible. We continue to work on a bipartisan basis with our leadership and our colleagues in the Senate to find a way to move forward on broader foster care improvements. But today’s action provides a good opportunity to once again highlight the sharp rise of children in foster care in the U.S.—and in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts—fueled in part by the opioid crisis. In Massachusetts, between 2011 and 2015, the number of petitions to remove children from their homes grew 38 percent. Today, Massachusetts is home to nearly ten thousand kids in foster care. Over a thousand of them are considered at risk of reaching adulthood without being adopted or safely reunified with their birth families. That is why it is so important that we do everything we can to help them finish their education and develop mentor relationships with supportive adults. While I’m pleased that our Committee and the full House are working together to help these young people, we can’t ignore the bigger picture, which is that the President’s attempts to overturn the Affordable Care Act will have real, measurable negative effects on these kids. Republican Medicaid cuts jeopardize health coverage for older foster youth – the same youth we are trying to help with this bill—by cutting essential health benefits and Medicaid. In turn, this endangers access to substance abuse treatment—and, by extension, many of the treatment centers themselves. Republican proposals to end the Social Services Block Grant would reduce states’ abilities to provide substance abuse, mental health care, and supportive services to foster parents. While these larger issues are deeply troubling, today’s five child welfare bills, including the one before us now, represent an improvement over the status quo, and it is refreshing to note the bipartisan collaboration involved. In addition to Congresswoman Bass’s leadership on this bill to help older foster youth, I’d like to recognize my colleagues Mr. Davis, Ms. Chu, and Ms. Sewell for their work on behalf of foster children, as reflected in these bills that they have co-authored and we are considering today. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and the other bipartisan child welfare improvements being considered today, and also to work with us to do even more to help foster youth succeed. ##
06.18.2017	(WASHINGTON) - Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after the U.S.S Fitzgerald collided with a container ship off the coast of Japan killing several sailors in the U.S. Navy: “On Father’s Day, my thoughts and prayers are with the families and crew of the brave American sailors who lost their lives when the U.S.S. Fitzgerald collided with a container ship off the coast of Japan on Saturday. The U.S. Navy is the world’s leading naval power and the men and women who serve in uniform put themselves in harm’s way on a daily basis to help keep America safe. These service members are courageous, dedicated and represent the very best in our country. And today is sad reminder of the great risks they assume defending the United States. I join with the rest of the American family in honoring their sacrifice and mourning their loss,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. ##
06.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after President Trump announced he is reimposing commercial restrictions on Cuba previously lifted by President Obama: “President Trump’s rollback on commercial dealings with Cuba is an ill-advised move that reverts to the failed policies of the past. We have more than fifty years of experience demonstrating that imposing sanctions without the support of our allies does not work in Cuba. The best way to improve the protection of human rights in Cuba is to proactively engage with their government and promote an open economy. Instead, President Trump has offered the Castro regime an excuse to continue its repressive practices. The repercussions of today’s move will also have negative economic consequences in both countries. Not only will American workers and businesses miss out on opportunities in Cuba, but the livelihoods of the Cuban people will be diminished. Hundreds of Cuban jobs that resulted from U.S. business and tourism to Cuba will all but disappear. The best way to achieve a constructive outcome with Cuba is to engage, not turn our back.” ###
06.15.2017	Ranking Member Neal Opening Statement at Markup of Child Welfare, TANF, and Tax Credit Legislation (Remarks as prepared) Thank you, Chairman Brady. I’m glad to work with you today to advance five child welfare bills to the House floor. I also am pleased that the Committee is considering today two bills—one that addresses strategies for helping TANF recipients improve their skills and find good jobs and another regarding the production tax credit for advanced nuclear power. I’d like to begin with a few comments about the child welfare bills. I applaud my colleague Mr. Davis for his efforts on H.R. 2742, the Modernizing the Interstate Placement of Children in Foster Care Act; H.R. 2834, the Partnership Grants to Strengthen Families Affected by Parental Substance Abuse Act; and also H.R. 2842, the Accelerating Individuals into Employment Act, which I will discuss in greater depth in a moment. I’d also like to commend Congresswoman Judy Chu, one of the excellent newer members of our committee, for her work as co-author of H.R. 2857, the Supporting Families in Substance Abuse Treatment Act. Congresswoman Terri Sewell similarly deserves great praise for her work developing H.R. 2866, the Reducing Barriers for Relative Foster Parents Act. Finally, our thanks to Congresswoman Karen Bass, a colleague who doesn’t serve on our committee but who has a strong commitment to helping young people in foster care. She spearheaded Democratic efforts on H.R. 2847, the Improving Services for Older Youth in Foster Care Act. Today, we are taking up H.R. 2842, the Accelerating Individuals into the Workforce Act. It would fund demonstration projects to explore approaches that combine work and training to ensure that low-income parents receiving Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) can get good jobs that will lift their families into the middle class. Democrats have long supported these approaches, and research shows that they can be very effective. I expect many of my colleagues will join Mr. Davis to promote this good research. Many in this room would agree that, in some significant ways, TANF is failing families. I am concerned that this failure would certainly not be solved by the Administration’s proposal to arbitrarily cut TANF by $22 billion over the next decade. TANF currently serves only about one in four poor families, and states spend less than half of TANF funds on TANF’s core purposes –work, child care, and assistance to families. Specifically related to H.R. 2842, TANF puts states at risk of financial penalties if they help too many parents upgrade their education or their skills, including participating in programs that H.R. 2842 proposes to support. We should gather additional evidence of what works to help struggling parents find good jobs and move out of poverty. We should also look at the bigger picture and remove the obstacles from states when it comes to education and training for TANF recipients. Before concluding, let me thank the Chairman for also considering my colleague, Mr. Blumenauer’s, legislation that would modify the production tax credit for nuclear power facilities. This bipartisan legislation also is a big priority for Representatives Clyburn and Rice as this is a critical jobs bill for the state of South Carolina. However, I must highlight my disappointment that we’re not also acting on other member priorities in the energy tax space. For example, there’s bipartisan interest on this committee for extending the section 48 investment tax credit for non-solar, section 48-eligible technologies. The U.S. government spends a tremendous amount of money on energy policy through our Tax Code. And therefore, as we continue our discussions on tax reform, I hope the Chairman will consider focusing on comprehensive energy reform as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Watch the full markup here. ###
06.08.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Thank you Chairman Brady. Secretary Price, I guess this is a bit of a homecoming for you. I am glad you are able to join us today. Mr. Chairman, I understand how valuable the Secretary’s time is. I hope you will give Members the latitude to talk about anything they would like in the three minutes they have been allotted. I want the American people to understand the impact of the HHS budget before us today. It cuts so many programs on which middle-class families rely that I would go over my allotted time if I described all of them. It goes against every promise President Trump made and instead would cut programs that help middle-class families, both old and young, across the United States. For example, cuts to Medicaid would put at great risk health insurance for kids, long-term care for seniors, and individuals who rely on mental health and opioid addiction programs. Medicaid is the largest source of funding in the United States for substance abuse treatment. I’m sure everyone in this room knows somebody facing an addiction crisis. The New York Times recently reported that based on preliminary data they compiled, drug overdose deaths in the United States will likely exceed 59,000 in 2016—the largest annual jump in our nation’s history. It’s an estimated 19% rise since 2015 and likely to get worse in 2017. In addition to hardworking families, the cuts would harm hospitals because they would take on significant uncompensated care but with lower reimbursement rates. This is a recipe for a health and economic disaster for not just Medicaid, but for all Americans. Not only would patients receive lower quality care, the cuts would create a devastating economic ripple effect in communities and likely lead to significant job loss. For many communities, including mine, the hospital is one of the largest employers. The reality is that Medicaid is now a middle-class benefit. As more and more Americans celebrate living longer, new challenges have appeared—dementia and general need for long-term care. We need to ensure these programs are secure in the future to keep up with the strides we are making to extend life expectancy. Thanks to Medicaid, in Massachusetts, almost 100% of children and 97% of adults have health insurance. It is a wildly popular program. I remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, Americans may not remember who brought them higher quality, lower-cost health care, but they would certainly remember who takes it away. Proposals to convert Medicaid to a block grant or per-capita cap would shift costs to states. Look—I have been in local government—you know exactly where those funds would end up—to balance the budget of something not remotely related to health care. Proposed Medicare cuts are a staggering $33.5 billion—and at a time when millions of Baby Boomers are beginning to rely on this critical program. We have a bipartisan responsibility to govern on behalf of the middle class and grow our economy, and especially to avoid any self-inflicted damage. America’s seniors earned their Medicare benefits, and I hope the Secretary will commit to working with Congress to make sure that Medicare, and all of our obligations, are paid on time and in full. Because you are a trustee of both Medicare and Social Security, I want to make sure you are aware this budget would cut Social Security benefits by up to the $64 billion over 10 years. And what’s worse, these cuts are targeted to people with severe disabilities. Look—Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security are all linked. Because of these programs, your parents aren’t living in your attic. Other critical programs in our jurisdiction that face cuts include the Social Services Block Grant and the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. The programs provide services that directly benefit vulnerable children, seniors, and disabled Americans. I want to conclude by addressing a recent decision by health insurance companies to leave the market. As HHS Secretary, the health care world looks to you for leadership. Unfortunately to date, the new Administration has not provided that unwavering leadership for the health system, which has led to a destabilized health insurance market. I’m referring to Cost Sharing Reduction Subsidies. The President has toyed with whether he intends to keep them or not; and you and I both know that is one reason for the premium increases and market instability recently reported in the press. Table 25-1 of the Analytical Perspectives has a clear line indicating the budget assumes payments go forward under current law. Why the President continues to sow confusion is unclear. We will surely disagree if, in spite of your budget, you come out on the other side of the issue. For leadership purposes, I urge you and the President to make a decision one way or another and stick to it. This budget would force middle-class Americans to pay more for less health care, strip down critical addiction rehabilitation services, create further chaos in the health insurance market, and devastate programs for families that need help to make ends meet. (Watch here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=niNglj-qpIQ) ###
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and Mexican Secretary of Economy Ildefonso Guajardo announced a new “agreement in principle” for suspending antidumping and countervailing duties on Mexican sugar imported into the United States: "Trade in sugar has been a longstanding matter of contention between the United States and Mexico. The recent efforts by Secretary Ross to negotiate a resolution are a step in the right direction. However, I urge the parties to come back to the table to strike a deal that benefits both the American public and our economy." ###
06.01.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today following President Donald J. Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement: “More than 190 countries support the Paris climate agreement, but with President Trump’s decision today to withdraw from the accord, the United States now joins Syria and Nicaragua as the only other countries not participating in the global alliance to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The administration that consistently denies the existence of climate change has now abandoned an international effort to preserve and protect our environment. Even Pope Francis could not persuade President Trump to remain a part of this landmark agreement to fight climate change. Today’s announcement damages America’s standing and reputation around the world and puts us on the wrong side of history on one of the most important global challenges of our time. Lowering global carbon emissions in an effort to protect our planet for future generations should not be a partisan issue. But instead of embracing a green energy future, President Trump has chosen to isolate America from the rest of the world on a universally supported agreement to combat climate change ,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
05.24.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Mr. Chairman, recently the House passed a bill that would take away health insurance from 24 million Americans, raise premiums and out-of-pocket costs on millions more, take away coverage guarantees, place an age tax on older Americans and if that’s not enough, raids Medicare. Middle-class Americans would be on the front lines of these cuts while the proposal provides substantial tax cuts for the millionaires and billionaires--$7 million a year to the 400 richest Americans. Let’s be clear: the Republican plan that we voted on earlier this month was nothing more than a tax cut disguised as a health care bill. What’s worse, the Majority chose to pass it without fully understanding its impact on the American people. Even as we sit here today, we have still not heard from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office about the legislation’s impact. This is not the way we should be approaching an issue so important to the American people. Nevertheless, today we are marking up 3 bills intended to fix problems in the Republican ACA repeal bill. Mr. Johnson’s bill is designed to fix a problem in Trumpcare that affects veterans. But the underlying Republican health plan would dramatically cut Medicaid, a program that provides health care for nearly 2 million veterans. And the President’s recently released budget takes it a step further by cutting Veterans’ programs, including disability benefits. Mr. Tiberi’s bill would allow individuals purchasing COBRA coverage to receive tax credits. But older Americans are more likely to rely on COBRA, and the Republican Trumpcare bill would allow insurers to charge older Americans up to five times more than younger Americans. Mr. Barletta’s bill would essentially address a non-existent problem regarding Social Security numbers. However, it would make it more difficult for certain Americans – infants and domestic violence victims - to acquire health coverage. None of these bills fix harm caused by the Republican health care bill and don’t have a CBO or JCT score. In fact, two of these bills only take effect if the Republican Trumpcare bill takes effect, which we know will not occur since the Senate has pronounced the House’s bill dead on arrival in the Senate. This is purely a charade. Even if all three of these bills were incorporated into the Trumpcare legislation, they would not undo the terrible cuts in the bill: enormous coverage losses, more than $800 billion in cuts to Medicaid, unraveling of important consumer protections or cuts to programs designed to help address the opioid addiction crisis in my state of Massachusetts and throughout the nation. Everyone in this room has someone close to them addicted to opioids. And Medicaid is now a program that many middle-class Americans rely on for long-term care. Thanks to Medicare and Medicaid, your parents aren’t living in your attic. Republicans can try to distract from the devastation Trumpcare would do to working families. But we all know better. If Republicans are serious about addressing middle-class American health care needs, they would go back to the drawing board and start over. ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s 2018 budget request: “President Trump’s budget is nothing more than a long list of broken promises to the American people. This ideological wish list of deep cuts would do nothing but wreak havoc on the lives of middle-class and working families across our country. Instead of a plan that lifts up the middle class and invests in programs to create a competitive 21st century economy, this budget does the exact opposite. This irresponsible budget will further exacerbate the opioid epidemic that’s torn apart families in cities and towns across this country and stretched the already thin resources in local communities. Drastic cuts to middle-class programs like Medicaid will force working families to choose between sending their children to school and caring for aging parents. And despite repeated promises not to touch Social Security, this budget cuts Social Security benefits, damaging a key lifeline for millions of Americans unable to work. This is a budget designed to inflict pain on the very people that make up the backbone of this country.” ##
05.23.2017	Thank you, Chairman Brady, for holding today’s hearing on increasing U.S. competitiveness and preventing American jobs from moving overseas. This is an important topic and I look forward to a productive conversation. As we continue with this series of hearings on comprehensive tax reform, I want to reiterate my support for reforming our Tax Code. There’s certainly strong bipartisan support for simplifying our tax system – and making it more fair. We on the Democratic side are willing partners in those efforts. However, Democrats will only support comprehensive tax reform that will ease financial burdens on the middle class and working families. We will not support tax cuts for those at top of the income scale at the expense of the middle class. Our primary focus and top priority in tax reform needs to be putting the middle class first. I also believe that a key component of tax reform is ensuring that American businesses remain competitive in the global economy – and that we prevent American jobs from moving overseas. Achieving this includes providing incentives to companies to conduct research and development here in the United States. We also need to improve our nation’s infrastructure so that it’s in line with other developed nations. That includes meaningful investments to repair and enhance our nation’s roads, rail, bridges and harbors. These reforms can be done through the Tax Code and would also jump start economic growth and create thousands of jobs. Another key component of international competitiveness is investment in a well-trained and skilled workforce. A 2015 report by the Manufacturing Institute estimated that over the next decade, two million manufacturing jobs in this country could go unfilled due to the skills gap. And the New England Council estimated in a 2015 report that thousands of high paying advance manufacturing jobs – some with salaries over $80,000/year – would go unfilled because employers were struggling to find candidates to meet the needs of the open positions. At a time when families across the country are trying to reach and stay in the middle class, our nation cannot afford to have factories and workers sit idle. To remain competitive, we need to invest in workforce development. Let me shift to another focus of today’s hearing – the border adjustment tax. I think the border adjustment tax proposal is an interesting idea. As my past support of an innovation box demonstrates, I am no stranger to innovative tax ideas, and I’m willing to look outside the box for smart tax policy – and certainly encourage others to do the same. Some argue that a border adjustment tax would create such an incentive for companies to make things in the U.S. that it would drive up demand for American-made goods. I certainly support American manufacturers. However, there are many unknowns about the border adjustment tax. Given the many significant economic uncertainties and risks associated with a border adjustment tax, the Committee must evaluate its merits thoroughly and methodically. There are many very important questions that must be answered in order to evaluate the proposal. And I applaud the Chairman for holding today’s hearing to do just that. For example: What will the impact be on consumers? The retailers tell us the cost of products like food, clothing and medicine will go up for consumers by more than $1,700 – and gas prices will increase by 35 cents a gallon. I’ve also been told that a 20 percent BAT could increase average home heating costs for a New England family by $400 or more per winter. Middle-class families can’t – and shouldn’t – have to sustain those types of increases in consumer prices as a result of tax reform. Is that a risk with the adoption of a border adjustment tax? Will the dollar strengthen to offset increases in consumer prices? If so, how long will it take and will it be complete? And how much certainty is there with respect to currency fluctuations? What are other implications of an increased dollar? Is the border adjustment tax WTO compliant? Is there a risk of retaliation? What would the BAT’s impact be on American jobs? Who will be the winners and losers as a result of the BAT? Another question I have is the impact on small businesses. Unfortunately, we don’t have a small business witness with us today. But I think understanding the potential impact on small business is key. The owner of Dave’s Soda and Pet City in my district tells me that it is his imported products that provide the margin for him to operate the rest of his business. He says if his costs go up, he can’t reduce rent or utilities, so the only place to cut is payroll. He also is very concerned that if consumers have to pay more for gas and other essentials, he will sell less of the pet accessories that keep his business afloat. I hope we can continue to examine the impact of the BAT on small businesses. Mr. Chairman, I also hope that you will consider holding a hearing on how to use the revenue from a deemed repatriation tax in tax reform. I support using repatriation dollars to pay for infrastructure or other productive purposes for the middle class. Again, Mr. Chairman, thank you for your leadership in calling today’s hearing to really dive into this topic of the border adjustment tax and get our questions answered. I look forward to a productive conversation, and I thank the witnesses for joining us today. Thank you.
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today sent a letter to United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer, in response to the Administration’s notice to Congress that it intends to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “The tone and substance of the letter cannot be squared with the statements the President made describing NAFTA as a ‘disaster’ and the ‘single worst trade deal’ the United States ever negotiated,” the Members wrote. “The letter, on the other hand, emphasizes that the Administration’s goal is merely to ‘improve’ and ‘modernize’ NAFTA. The President also criticized Hillary Clinton for describing TPP as the ‘gold standard,’ but Administration officials now say TPP text will serve as the starting point for many of its proposals to change NAFTA. And the notice is hardly consistent with your statement last week that you intend to ‘permanently reverse the dangerous trajectory’ of U.S. trade policy. For those of us who believe that U.S. trade policy – and NAFTA – need fundamental reform, this notice is very disappointing.” ##
05.18.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Chairman Brady, thank you for holding this important hearing today highlighting the need for tax reform. The tax code is broken – it is far too complicated and in need of repair. Our current tax system isn’t working for families and businesses alike. And we all agree that any revisions to the Tax Code should promote economic growth and create jobs for working families. We should reject ideology and work together to reform our tax system for the twenty first century. According to a recent Pew study, the share of adults living in middle-income households in the United States fell from 62 to 59% from 1991 to 2010. Aggregate household income has also shifted from middle to upper income households. Pew’s research found that 49% of U.S. aggregate income went to upper-income households in 2014, up from 29% in 1970. And for middle-income households – the share of income was 43% in 2014 down from 62% in 1970. Wealth is now concentrated at the top – and there’s broad acknowledgement that the rich are getting richer while the middle class is shrinking. Income stagnation is a real challenge and one that needs to be addressed in tax reform. This is in part why working families sent a strong signal to Congress last November. They haven’t received a pay raise in years, their bills are piling up and they’re concerned about an uncertain financial future. Put simply, too many feel forgotten by their government. Tax reform should be about moving the dial to help middle-class families prosper. That means focusing on job creation. And helping families with day-to-day costs, like housing costs and grocery bills and child care. It also means helping working families to buy their first home, send their kids to college and help care for their elderly parents. And of course, it also means helping families save for retirement and that means protecting the tax incentives for retirement savings. Our focus should be on making sure that when our American families sit down at the dinner table, they can look across at their spouse – at their children – and know that things are going to be alright. That’s unfortunately not the case in too many homes across the country today and we need to change that. That’s why Democrats are so committed to ensuring that the middle class is the true winner in any tax reform. The American people don’t believe that massive tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires grow the economy. The American family knows that tax reform that provides middle-class tax relief and asks corporations and the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share is what will grow our economy. Democrats will oppose any tax plan that helps the rich get richer and does nothing for those who really need help. And all of us should oppose any tax reform that results in the middle class carrying even more of the tax burden. The Trump tax plan currently fails to meet this standard and I hope the Administration will move back to the test set out by Secretary Mnuchin for tax reform that, “there will be no absolute tax cut for the upper class.” Furthermore, for tax reform to be successful, it must be done in a fiscally responsible manner. To that end, the words “dynamic scoring” and “supply side economics” are thrown around a lot these days. But make no mistake, tax cuts do not pay for themselves and anything to the contrary is a non-starter. However, as we consider tax policy and economy-wide effects, I would argue the importance of considering the macroeconomic effects of other policy changes, including an acknowledgement that robust investment in our nation’s infrastructure would have significant growth effects throughout our economy. I also think we should think about using the revenue from a deemed repatriation tax to pay for infrastructure or other productive purposes. In conclusion, we have a unique opportunity to sit down and work together on tax reform. I stand ready to work in good faith on tax reform with Republicans in Congress and the Administration, but only if we’re truly doing so to benefit our nation’s middle class. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for calling this hearing. Also many thanks to our witnesses for joining us today. I look forward to a productive conversation. Watch here: https://youtu.be/vQomU68OHyU ###
05.10.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on the firing of FBI Director James Comey by President Donald Trump. “Last night, President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey who was leading the investigation into his administrations ties to the Russian government. This stunning development follows his removal of acting Attorney General Sally Yates and U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, both highly respected and independent law enforcement officials. What we are witnessing from the White House is virtually unprecedented in American history and deeply troubling. Since January, I have been calling for an independent and bipartisan investigation into the Kremlin’s interference in the 2016 presidential investigation. That act was nothing less than a direct assault on our democracy by a hostile foreign government. The abrupt dismissal of Director Comey only reinforces my belief that a special prosecutor is needed immediately. The American people deserve to know the truth,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s executive order subverting civil rights protections under the guise of religious freedom: “As if working to take away coverage from 24 million Americans and raising health care costs for everyone else wasn't enough, the Trump Administration is continuing its assault on Americans’ health care by taking away access to vital health services. Under the guise of religious freedom, this executive order gives entities carte blanche to deny preventive health care services, for any religious or moral reason. Women and the LGBTQ community are particularly at risk of losing vital health services such as contraceptive coverage, which is imperative for the health and wellbeing of our nation’s families and communities. The ‘religious freedom’ of an employer, university, or other entity cannot and should not be used as a tool to deprive women and others of their civil rights as it relates to their health care services or options. In short, this executive order puts the health of our country at risk.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the House passed the Trumpcare bill: “Despite the absence of analysis from the Congressional Budget Office and without a single public hearing on this bill, Republicans followed through on seven years of threats to destroy the health care of millions of Americans by forcing them to pay more for worse coverage. Instead of working with Democrats to improve health care in this country, Republicans voted to remove key protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions, take away health insurance from 24 million, shorten the life of Medicare, and impose an age tax on seniors – all to pay for a giant tax cut for the wealthy. This bill breaks nearly every promise that President Trump made to the American people on health care. And perhaps even worse, Republicans knowingly ignored the dire warnings of respected groups representing hospitals, patients, seniors, and virtually the entire medical community and wrote this bill behind closed doors, cobbling together a bill just to get the votes to pass it and score political points – rather than with the goal of improving health care in this country. Every step of the way, Democrats have been willing to work with Republicans to strengthen our health care system, but Republicans chose to gamble on the health and well-being of millions of middle-class Americans.” ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the United States Senate passed a Congressional Review Act (CRA) blocking U.S. Department of Labor regulations on state-run retirement programs: “Today’s passage of a CRA to roll back commonsense regulations on state-run retirement programs is a harmful step back for Americans’ retirement security. State-run auto IRA programs are a critical tool in this effort, but this CRA would put up a roadblock and make it more difficult for states to launch such programs. I have long advocated to make it easier for Americans to save for retirement, including with my bill to create a federal auto IRA program. I will continue to push for these efforts, as Congress should be focused on working together to make it easier for Americans to save for retirement.”
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Tax Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today released the following statements after President Donald J. Trump released his tax proposal: “President Trump’s tax proposal does not do nearly enough for working families and small businesses in this country,” said Ranking Member Neal. “The tax cuts proposed by President Trump would disproportionately favor the wealthy and large corporations at the expense of our nation’s hardworking middle class. Despite what this Administration might say, the notion that large tax cuts pay for themselves is a fallacy. This broad outline – which lacks any kind of real detail – is a rerun of the same failed tax policy that led to the Bush tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, which cost us trillions of dollars, did nothing to help working families, and, in part, contributed to the Great Recession. I have long said that my desire is to use bipartisan tax reform as an opportunity to address our nation’s crumbling infrastructure and I’m disappointed the president’s plan does not seize this opportunity. Any tax reform plan should focus on growing our economy from the middle out, instead of trickle-down economics from the top down. The American people deserve better than President Trump’s proposals, and I hope the president and Republicans in Congress will come to the table with Democrats and work to reform our tax code in a bipartisan manner that kick starts growth and grows our nation’s middle class.” “The claim that his multi-trillion dollar tax cut will pay for itself is as incredible as the claim that Mexico will pay for his multi-billion dollar border wall,” said Congressman Doggett. “Dripping in red ink, this proposal validates Trump’s boast that he is ‘the king of debt.’ For Trump and his cohorts, ‘fiscal responsibility’ is just a political slogan used to undermine the vital education, health care, and social services that they oppose, not a genuine commitment to restraining the national debt. Boasting of his previous influence in bending the Tax Code to his whim, Trump claims only he can fix it. But will he ‘fix’ it for himself, or fix it for the middle class? Without an end to the Republican cover-up of Trump’s tax returns, we cannot determine whether this is mostly just more self-enrichment for the Trump family. Trump talks like a populist but governs like a plutocrat. Like the near trillion dollar tax cut in the failed health care bill that he endorsed, Trump’s tax plan fills the coffers of giant corporations and lines the pockets of the superrich.”
04.07.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement following the U.S. military airstrikes in Syria last night in direct response to President Bashar al-Assad use of chemical weapons against innocent civilians. “The images the international community witnessed this week from Syria were tragic, heartbreaking and shocking. Bashir al-Assad’s use of chemical weapons against innocent men, women and children in that country’s six year civil war is inhuman and demanded a response. That is why I supported the limited and proportional airstrikes against key Syrian military assets by our Armed Forces. Assad is a brutal dictator who has no regard for his own people and needs to be held accountable. But going forward, any future authorization of military for needs to be thoroughly debated in the United States Congress. The American people simply do not want to enter another open ended conflict in the region. In my opinion, a political solution, not further military engagement, is the best strategy to bring meaningful change to Syria,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
03.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today released the following statements after President Donald J. Trump announced that he will sign two executive orders on trade: “Today’s executive orders are an attempt to divert attention from the fact that the Trump Administration currently has no plan for making America more competitive or helping American workers,” said Ranking Member Neal. “The Administration seems to favor calling for reports over taking serious action.” “Today's executive order completes a week of broken promises by this Administration to improve our nation's trade policy,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Pascrell. “It is clear the Administration has no coherent plan. We don’t need another study on trade barriers, we need a meaningful legislative agenda. Democrats are finalizing a package of trade enforcement proposals to address fundamental and structural problems and will result in fairer trade and fair treatment for American workers.”
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) said in an interview that he did not want to work Democrats on health care legislation: I am deeply disappointed by Speaker Ryan’s comments that he doesn’t want President Trump to work with Democrats to improve our health care system. These comments are irresponsible and tone deaf to the wishes of the American people. Our constituents send us to Washington to work together in a bipartisan manner to solve tough problems. I had hoped that last week’s defeat of the Republican health care bill signaled the end of nearly a decade of Republican obstructionism and sabotage on health care. But Speaker Ryan’s comments make clear that House Republicans are still more interested in scoring political points than working to improve the lives of middle-class families. For seven years, Democrats have said that if Republicans removed the threat of repeal, we would gladly work with them on ways to improve coverage, lower costs, and strengthen consumer protections. That offer still stands to any Republican who puts aside their insistence on repealing the Affordable Care Act. I hope that as Congress begins consideration of the budget, tax reform, and other important legislation, Speaker Ryan and House Republicans will reconsider their ‘go it alone’ governing strategy and work with Democrats to find consensus on the big issues we face. I hope the Speaker will worry less about his narrow political interest and more about the daily lives of middle-class Americans, as he is the Speaker of the entire House of Representatives, not just the Republican Conference.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after House Republicans pulled a vote on the TrumpCare bill: “Today the American people have spoken: the Republican health care bill is a complete disaster and total failure. The bill would have had devastating effects on millions of Americans, raising costs on low-income and middle-class families while giving enormous tax breaks to millionaires. It would have imposed an age tax on seniors and removed requirements that health plans must cover essential health benefits like prescription medications, hospitalization, and maternity care. From start to finish, Republicans drafted and negotiated this bill in secret with no input from Democrats or the American people. Today they learned the American people will not accept that, so Republicans had to pull the vote to avoid a defeat on the House Floor. I sincerely hope Republicans will now join Democrats to further expand affordable, quality health coverage to more Americans and build on the historic progress we made with the Affordable Care Act. We must focus on actually improving health care in this country, and I encourage my Republican colleagues to finally step up to the plate and work with us. The American people deserve it.”
03.21.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Co-Chairman of the Friends of Ireland Caucus in the United States Congress, released the following statement today on the passing of Sinn Fein’s Martin McGuinness at the age 66. “It is with genuine sadness that I learned my great friend Martin McGuinness has passed away. I can say without hesitation that Martin was an individual who helped change the course of Irish history for the better. I worked side-by-side with him for more than two decades in the effort to bring peace, justice and reconciliation to the island of Ireland. He was a leader who took extraordinary personal risks for peace to help build a shared future for the people he represented. And the conversation that is taking place on the island today about Irish unity is due in no small measure to the influence of Martin McGuiness. People from around the world knew him as a peacemaker, a statesman and a gentleman. But I am going to miss my friend and his love of poetry, fishing and the City of Derry. During this difficult time, my thoughts go out to his wife Bernie and the entire McGuinness family. He will be missed. May he rest in peace."
03.21.2017	(Washington) - Today, Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH) and Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee Richard E. Neal (D-MA) introduced the Affordable Housing Credit Improvement Act, legislation that strengthens the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit. The Affordable Housing Credit Improvement Act would give states additional flexibility, make the financing of affordable housing more predictable and streamlined, facilitate housing credit development in challenging markets like rural and Native American communities, increase the housing credit’s ability to serve extremely low-income tenants, and support the preservation of existing affordable housing. “The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit is a vital and effective tool to address the affordable housing crisis in America,” said Congressman Tiberi. “Since 1987, Ohio has used the LIHTC Program to facilitate the development of over 100,000 affordable rental housing units. It is a great example of how the private sector can work with government to help families, individuals and seniors find a safe and decent place to live and call home. I look forward to working with Congressman Neal and the rest of the Ways and Means Committee as we reform our tax code to ensure that this incentive to provide affordable housing remains strong.” “The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit is a powerful tool for leveraging private investment for affordable housing. Thanks to the Housing Credit, more than 100,000 low-income families now have affordable homes in Massachusetts. I’m pleased to once again be teaming with my colleague, Pat Tiberi, to further strengthen the Housing Credit program – and I call on my colleagues to support these commonsense reforms,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
03.10.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Co-Chairman of the Congressional Friends of Ireland in the United States Congress, released the following statement today calling on President Donald J. Trump to appoint a new U.S. Special Envoy to Northern Ireland. "As we prepare for the last official visit of Taoiseach Enda Kenny to Washington, D.C., contemplate the ramifications that Brexit will have on the island of Ireland, and digest the results of the recent elections in the north, there could not be a more appropriate time for President Donald Trump to name a new U.S. Special Envoy for Northern Ireland. Since 1995, and the appointment of former Senator George Mitchell, there have been approximately six individuals, chosen by three presidents, who have served in this meaningful diplomatic post in a bipartisan manner. On both sides of the Atlantic, there is little debate that each special envoy has played an indispensable role in the negotiation and implementation of several peace accords, and have helped to strengthen ties between the United States and Ireland. These men and women have been honest brokers whose appointments have signaled continued American interest in the region and ongoing support for the peace process. We are now entering a critically important period of U.S.- Ireland relations, with a wide range of important issues to be addressed, so I strongly urge President Trump to appoint a new special envoy at the earliest possible opportunity. It would continue a bipartisan practice that produced highly regarded U.S. representatives who helped create one of the most successful models of conflict resolution around the globe in recent memory."
03.08.2017	Mr. Chairman, I am disappointed we are here today to consider legislation that reflects not only bad policy, but bad process. And a number of important groups agree: AARP, AMA and AHA all oppose this bill. This bill suffers from an identity crisis. Is this a health care bill or a tax cut bill? Does it lower costs? No. Does it bend the cost curve? No. Does it cover more Americans? No. Does it cut the deficit? No. Even the President wants more information—earlier this year he called it an “unbelievably complex subject. Nobody knew healthcare could be so complicated.” This Republican bill--– which they cleverly broke up into separate parts to try to distract the American public –fails to protect 152 million Americans with pre-existing conditions and would allow insurers to charge older people five times as much as younger people, essentially implementing an “age tax”. It forces millions to pay more for less care. Transparency is clearly lacking in this process. As recently as last week, I called upon House Republicans to provide an open and transparent process when they consider any health care legislation aimed at repealing or replacing the Affordable Care Act. The goal: to ensure all Americans had the opportunity to fully understand and consider how any Republican health care plan could impact them. Instead, the Republicans hid a draft bill somewhere in the basement of the Capitol with armed police officers. That is as far as you can get from transparency. The American public deserve better from their representatives. Also to consider a bill of this magnitude without a CBO score is not only puzzling and concerning, but also irresponsible. When the Democrats created the Affordable Care Act, it was a thoroughly transparent and open process. Let’s look at the numbers: In the House 79 bipartisan health insurance reform hearings and markups over 2 years 100 hours in hearings 181 witnesses from both sides of the aisle 239 Republican and Democrat amendments—121 were accepted 30 days of online review of the original House bill before the first markup 72 hours—number of hours the House bill was online for review before final vote 3,000 health care town halls and public events In the Senate 53 health insurance reform hearings in the Senate Finance Committee 8 days of markups with 135 amendments considered in Senate Finance Committee 47 bipartisan hearings and other open dialogues with 300 amendments during a 13 day markup in the Senate HELP Committee 25 consecutive days in session to discuss health reform in the Senate 160 hours total in the Senate considering health reform legislation 147 Republican amendments in the final Senate bill This bill sabotages the Marketplaces where close to 10 million Americans today get coverage and starts a death spiral from which we will never recover. Healthy people won’t bother with coverage or only buy bare bones policies. Sick people who need coverage would buy policies – if they are even available - that will undoubtedly become more and more expensive and unaffordable, especially in light of the inadequate tax credits. The most egregious part of the Republican plan slashes Medicaid funding to pay for tax cuts that benefit the rich. Medicaid helps pay the costs for more than 60% of all nursing home residents nationwide, and helps families afford quality nursing home care for their elderly parents and family members with disabilities. The Republican Medicaid proposal makes it harder and much costlier for families to find long-term care for elderly parents or children with severe disabilities. In addition, it would end the Medicaid expansion—a move that would have devastating consequences in my state of Massachusetts where it has been a critical tool for thousands of individuals and families with loved ones in long-term care facilities or who have dementia. It also provides rehabilitation options for individuals and families in the grips of opioid addiction. The reality is that Medicaid is now a middle-class benefit. The measure also would cut the span of Medicare by two years at a time when millions of baby boomers are joining and will rely heavily on this critical program. It’s a $170 billion tax giveaway to the wealthy, while starving the Medicare trust fund. Hospitals would face crippling debt as they face increased uncompensated care and lower reimbursement rates. In turn, this would lead to job loss in many hospitals and have a negative ripple effect in communities where hospitals are the largest employer. For example, in Western Massachusetts, Baystate Healthy provides 12,000 jobs and has a $4 billion statewide economic impact. Let’s call this bill what it is: a plan that creates chaos in the insurance market that directly impacts patients and providers, hurts hospitals, the communities they serve and their regional economies. Before concluding, I would like to note that today’s markup is really the Republican’s first step on tax reform. This legislation is a tax bill; almost every provision amends the Internal Revenue Code. So, we need to view this bill through the lens of tax reform as well. And through that lens, the bill fails the test set out by Secretary Mnuchin for tax reform that, “there will be no absolute tax cut for the upper class.” The Republican bill absolutely provides a tax cut for the wealthy and health care industry of almost $600 billion dollars. In fact, it has been estimated that 400 households with the highest-income would receive tax cuts averaging about $7 million apiece each year. At the same time, the bill hurts the middle-class through less generous tax credits, cuts to Medicaid and higher premiums with less quality care. Bottom line: this is ultimately about affordability. If Republicans take away critical coverage benefits in the ACA coupled with hurting the middle-class, it would drastically increase costs and lower coverage and quality care. As the Republicans have heard loud and clear during town halls, people are afraid of losing their health insurance. It would be irresponsible for Republicans to take away health care programs on which their constituents across a broad age and economic spectrum depend.
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) released the following joint statement tonight after Congressional Republicans proposed their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and noticed the two committees will mark up the bill beginning Wednesday morning: “The Republican repeal bill would rip health care away from millions of Americans, ration care for working families and seniors, and put insurance companies back in charge of health care decisions – contrary to everything President Trump has said he would do with his health care plan. “The American people want health care that is affordable and available when they need it, but the Republican repeal bill would charge them more money for less care. It would dramatically drive up health care costs for seniors. And repeal would ration care for more than 70 million Americans, including seniors in nursing homes, pregnant women and children living with disabilities by arbitrarily cutting and capping Medicaid. The Republican repeal bill would not protect patients, save money, or help working families; it is nothing but a drastic and devastating step backward. “The Republican repeal bill was drafted in secret, and introduced less than two days before our committees are scheduled to mark it up. This action makes a mockery of Speaker Ryan’s claims that ‘we’re not hatching some bill in the backroom and plopping it on the American people’s front door.’ It also stands in stark contrast to the transparent and deliberate process Democrats followed when the Affordable Care Act was introduced and moved through our committees. It’s disgraceful that there was no transparency in this process, and that the American people are not being given time to read and comment on a bill that significantly affects their health security.”
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today released the following statements after the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) submitted its 2017 Trade Policy Agenda to Congress: “This report is short on specifics and raises more questions than it answers,” said Ranking Member Neal. “It does identify a number of legitimate issues that I and many other House Democrats have been raising for years, such as foreign government subsidies, theft of intellectual property, and currency manipulation. But it doesn’t provide anything approaching an actual ‘agenda’ for how to address any issues. The Administration is right to criticize the WTO international dispute settlement process, but when it says it will ‘aggressively defend American sovereignty over matters of trade policy,’ it sounds like the Administration is considering a far too drastic response. We need to fix the problems with the current international trading system, not scrap the system altogether. As we move forward, Congress needs answers to what this Administration’s trade agenda really is – and we need them sooner rather than later.” “While I appreciate the Administration recognizing issues like foreign government subsidies, currency manipulation, and dispute settlement provisions, where are their solutions? This “Trade Agenda” lacks a coherent plan to tackle these issues that Democrats have been raising for decades,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Pascrell. “We await action from the Trump Administration on currency manipulation and the range of trade issues that have harmed American workers – those same anti-worker trade policies pushed by members of his party in Congress. I would like to see if they will support these ideas and come up with a genuine plan to address them, with the involvement of those of us in Congress who care about these issues.”
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – A group of 45 Senate and House members today introduced a bill requiring the president to publicly disclose any financial interests that would be at stake before acting on trade matters. Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal, D-Mass., led the bicameral Presidential Trade Transparency Act of 2017. “Americans have a right to know if the President is looking out for the good of the country or just his own bottom line when he negotiates a trade deal, decides whether or not to enforce our trade laws, or decides whether to cut tariffs on imports from a developing country,” Wyden said. “Trump has business interests around the world, but he continues to keep the full nature of those ties secret.” “It is imperative that all Presidents of the United States – including President Trump – are fully transparent about the nature and extent of their ties to foreign nations,” said Ranking Member Neal. “This bill would cement in law that Presidents must disclose all of their financial interests with countries that are involved in trade actions with the United States, a commonsense measure. We have to know that the interests of the American people and our country come first at all times, not just when it’s economically convenient or beneficial to a sitting President.” The bill would direct the President to disclose foreign income, assets, and liabilities when initiating or continuing trade or investment negotiations with a foreign country, taking or refraining to take certain trade enforcement actions, or granting or modifying preferential tariff treatment under statutory trade preference programs. Read the Senate bill here and the House bill here. A full summary of the legislation is available here. The bill is cosponsored in the Senate by: Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, Sen. Bob Casey, D-Penn., Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I., and Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md. It is cosponsored in the House by: Reps. Bill Pascrell, Jr., D-NJ, Sander M. Levin, D-MI, John Lewis, D-GA, Lloyd Doggett, D-TX, Mike Thompson, D-CA, John B. Larson, D-CT, Earl Blumenauer, D-OR, Ron Kind D-WI, Joseph Crowley, D-NY, Danny K. Davis, D-IL, Linda T. Sanchez, D-CA, Brian Higgins, D-NY, Suzan DelBene, D-WA, Terri A. Sewell, D-AL, Judy Chu, D-CA, Suzanne Bonamici, D-OR, David Cicilline, D-RI, Susan A. Davis, D-CA, Rosa DeLauro, D-CT, Mark DeSaulnier, D-CA, Keith Ellison, D-MN, Jim Himes D-CT, Marcy Kaptur, D-OH, Jerrold Nadler, D-NY, Mark Pocan, D-WI, Jared Polis, D-CO, Robert C. Scott, D-VA, Louise M. Slaughter, D-NY, Niki Tsongas, D-MA, and Maxine Waters, D-CA.
02.15.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH) and Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee Richard E. Neal (D-MA) introduced legislation to make the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) a permanent part of the tax code. The NMTC is a cost-effective incentive that encourages public-private partnerships to invest in struggling rural and urban areas where access to capital is needed the most. “The New Markets Tax Credit has spurred investment and driven real job growth across the state of Ohio,” said Congressman Pat Tiberi. “It is an important program that helped revitalize the Over-the-Rhine neighborhood in Cincinnati, financed the Ironville Terminal in Toledo, funded a new grocery store in an underserved area of Columbus and much more. Making the NMTC a permanent part of our tax code would provide more certainty to communities across the country looking for the same proven results of unlocking economic potential based on their needs.” “Since its enactment in 2000, the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) has created thousands of jobs and generated billions of dollars of investment in low income communities across the country. In Massachusetts, the highly successful initiative has helped generate private investment in economic development projects from the Berkshires to Boston. That is why I’m working with Congressman Tiberi in a bipartisan manner to make it a permanent part of the tax code. The NMTC is a federal program with a proven record of success that should be made permanent and expanded,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. Note: In the last Congress, the PATH Act was signed into law to give permanent tax relief so more Americans can plan for the future and save more of their hard-earned dollars. A provision championed by Congressmen Tiberi and Neal to extend the NMTC for five years was included in the PATH Act. In Fiscal Year 2016, the CDFI Fund reports that the NMTC delivered $3.16 billion in financing to 530 businesses, community facilities, and economic revitalization projects. Communities put the capital to work, creating nearly 11,000 permanent jobs and almost 27,000 construction jobs in areas with high unemployment and poverty.
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the Committee’s Democratic Members named him and Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) to serve on the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) in the 115th Congress: “It’s an honor and important responsibility to serve on the Joint Committee on Taxation, particularly during this Congress as we look to tackle comprehensive tax reform for the first time in three decades. I look forward to serving in this role with my longtime colleague and friend, John Lewis, as we work to secure tax cuts for the middle class, support working families, and make sure our nation’s tax rules work for all Americans, not just the wealthiest at the top.”
02.14.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH) and Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA) introduced the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention Act (STOP Act) today, legislation designed to help stop dangerous synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil from being shipped through our borders from countries like China to drug traffickers here in the United States. U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) introduced bipartisan companion legislation in the Senate. “My home state of Ohio is a top destination for synthetic drugs that are smuggled across our borders through the mail from countries like China,” said Congressman Pat Tiberi. “We must keep these drugs, which are so potent a dose the size of a snowflake can kill, from hitting our communities by closing this loophole in the U.S. postal system. In the House, I’m grateful to have a partner like Ranking Member Richard Neal so that we can raise bipartisan support for the STOP Act and see it reach the president’s desk.” “In Massachusetts, more than 2,600 people died from opioid related deaths since 2015. And fentanyl, which is 50 to 100 times stronger than heroin, was a factor in a majority of those deadly overdoses. The synthetic drug epidemic is growing problem that is afflicting families in every part of America. That is why I am continuing to work with Representative Pat Tiberi in a bipartisan effort to stop these drugs from entering our country illegally. We believe that action is needed now in Congress to help stop this public health crisis,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. NOTE: Fentanyl and, increasingly, carfentanil are causing a spike in overdoses and deaths around the country. China and India have been cited as the primary source countries for illicitly produced fentanyl and carfentanil in the United States. Companies based in these and other foreign countries take advantage of weaknesses in international mail security standards to break U.S. customs laws and regulations by shipping drugs directly through the U.S. postal system. Unlike UPS or FedEx, the U.S. Postal Service does not require advance electronic customs data for the vast majority of mail entering the United States. Because of the volume of mail, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) cannot manually scan these packages and stop illicit goods from crossing our borders.
02.14.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today following the resignation of President Donald J. Trump’s National Security Advisor General Michael Flynn. “The fact that President Trump’s national security advisor was having secret discussions with a Russian diplomat about American sanctions weeks before the presidential inauguration is deeply troubling. Even more disturbing is today’s disclosure that the Justice Department warned the White House about General Flynn’s possibly illegal behavior and nothing was done about it. I believe the American people need to know the full extent of the relationship between the Trump administration and the Russian government. And President Trump must finally release his tax returns so the public can learn whether he has any financial or business interest with Russia. After the Kremlin put the integrity of our electoral system at risk with their cyber-attacks, I called for an independent and bipartisan investigation into their involvement in the 2016 election. That act was nothing less than a direct assault on our democracy by a foreign government. Following General Flynn’s resignation, the probe should now be expanded to include the Trump administration’s ties with Vladimir Putin and Russia. Quite simply, our national security is at stake,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump ordered the U.S. Department of Labor to review and effectively delay its fiduciary rule that was finalized in April 2016: “Today’s action by President Trump to prevent the implementation of the fiduciary rule is harmful to consumers. This rule underwent thorough scrutiny for nearly seven years during President Obama’s Administration, as it considered industry and consumer concerns from all sides. Ultimately, this process produced a rule that ensures financial advisers act in their clients’ best interests and provide conflict-free advice, looking out for middle-class families as they save for retirement. The focus should be on getting bad actors out of the marketplace instead of holding the door open for them, as today’s action would do.”
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after a meeting at the White House with President Donald J. Trump and the leaders of the Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees: “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with President Trump today and discuss the future of our country’s trade policy, including his ideas about a renegotiation of NAFTA. It’s important to note that most House Democrats voted against NAFTA in the first place. I look forward to working with the President, my congressional colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and with stakeholders to determine what a NAFTA renegotiation should look like. But there can be no doubt that the American public expects our negotiators to insist that Mexico end the abusive labor and environmental practices that have put the United States at a competitive disadvantage, cost American workers their jobs, and reduced their paychecks. All future trade agreements must include strong and enforceable rules to address currency manipulation, as well as labor and environmental provisions, consistent with the May 10 Agreement of 2007.”
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) this morning appeared on CNBC’s “Squawk Box” and discussed the Democratic perspective on tax reform, and prospects for reform in the 115th Congress. Key Excerpts On bipartisanship in tax reform: “I hope that there will be an opportunity here to work with the Republicans on tax reform. There’s broad agreement on what’s wrong. There’s less agreement on the path to take to correct what’s wrong.” On what tax reform might look like and timing: “Well, as you cut the rates obviously what becomes more important is the loss of deductions, exclusions, and preferences in the code. And then you’ll see, I think, as those opportunities arise, whether or not the trade-offs are worth it. “We are now seeing three competing proposals, at least in terms of verbiage: one from the White House, one from the Republicans in the House, and a bit of a stand-offish approach in the United States Senate. So, I’m hoping as this takes form there will be an opportunity for all of us to participate, highlighting again that the current American tax code on the personal and corporate side really is underproductive and inefficient.” On lowering the corporate tax rate: “Well, the key phrase is ‘revenue-neutrality.’ Can you cut the corporate tax rate, and recall that President Obama proposed cutting the corporate rate to 28 percent. Dave Camp proposed cutting it to 25 percent. And what you found in the difference there, what seemed like a miniscule three points, was a world of change and many of the individuals who had sought corporate tax relief then took the position that it wasn’t worth it.” On tax reform overall: “Let me say, based upon long experience here, the poisonous atmosphere now that has really gone on for almost two decades, I think needs to abate. And you’re not going to do tax policy with one party and leave the other side out because in the end, if that happens, all that means is the side that doesn’t prevail, they simply do a reset and prepare for the next round.”
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Tax Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) today introduced a series of tax bills that would cut taxes for America’s middle class and working families. The bills would expand the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC), and Child Tax Credit (CTC) for hardworking Americans. “Democrats are focused on standing up for our nation’s middle class. We must make sure that hardworking Americans – the lifeblood of our economy – get the tax cuts they deserve and need for their families, enabling their hard work to pay off and help them get ahead,” said Ranking Member Neal. “My bill expands the EITC to apply to childless workers. It would also simplify and improve other aspects of the EITC to improve support for working parents and adults. By expanding and improving the EITC, AOTC, and CTC, we can help reduce poverty, ensure that hardworking Americans can get a leg up, improve college affordability, and grow our economy – all while making our nation’s tax rules fairer for all Americans.” “Removing financial barriers to higher education enables students to fulfill their full God-given potential, climb the ladder to success, and to strengthen our economic competitiveness,” said Tax Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Doggett. “This legislation would strengthen and simplify the education credit, which already helps millions to pay for college. Better coordinating the credit with Pell Grants will provide greater support for those who need it most.” “The Child Tax Credit Improvement Act will help millions of families across the United States who are striving to provide the best possible future for their children,” said Rep. DeLauro. “The greatest economic challenge facing our country today is that Americans are working in jobs that just do not pay them enough, but we must do everything we can to ensure that families have the resources to succeed. Increasing the value of the Child Tax Credit for families with a child under the age of six has the potential to positively impact a child’s health, education, and future.” Background Earned Income Tax Credit Improvement and Simplification Act (Sponsored by Rep. Neal) This bill would build on the enhancements to the EITC that were made permanent in 2015’s PATH Act. The legislation would allow the EITC for an individual with no qualifying children if the individual is between ages 21 and 25 and is not a full-time student. The bill would allow families with children who do not have a valid Social Security Number to qualify for tax credits similar to the EITC for individuals with no qualifying children. It would also revise the credit eligibility rules relating to married individuals living apart and qualifying children claimed by another family member. Lastly, the bill would repeal provisions that would deny the credit to taxpayers due to excess investment income. Click here to view bill text. Expand American Educational Opportunity Act (Sponsored by Rep. Doggett) Since its 2009 enactment, the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) has helped millions of students and working families pay for college. With bipartisan support, it was made permanent in 2015. This legislation would provide support to those who most need it by increasing the portion of the credit that is refundable, and allowing Pell Grant recipients to get its full benefit. It would also simplify the credit by eliminating the need for two separate higher education credits, while increasing the credit’s lifetime maximum limit. This bill has been endorsed by American Association of Community Colleges, American Association of State Colleges and Universities, American Council on Education, Association of American Universities, Association of Community College Trustees, Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, Council for Christian Colleges & Universities, Council for Opportunity in Education, Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, NASPA – Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education, National Association of College and University Business Officers, and National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. Click here to view bill text. Child Tax Credit Improvement Act (Sponsored by Rep. DeLauro): This legislation would index the value of the Child Tax Credit with inflation and increase the value of the credit for families with young children under the age of 6 to $3,600. Indexing the value of the credit keeps the real value of the CTC constant, helping families to maintain the purchasing power of the credit. The most recent Census report on the Supplemental Poverty Measure showed that refundable tax credits, specifically the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit, do more to lift children out of poverty than any other federal policy. Click here to view bill text.
01.30.2017	Today, Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA) sent a letter to the Acting Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to request further details on the Trump Administration’s decision to halt advertising and outreach activities for Healthcare.gov ahead of the crucial January 31st deadline for open enrollment. “We are deeply concerned that the Administration’s seemingly intentional efforts to sabotage enrollment in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Marketplaces will result in adverse risk selection, destabilize insurance markets, and send premiums skyrocketing,” the members wrote in the letter. “The White House’s order could hamper overall enrollment in the Marketplaces, as the final deadline for open enrollment has in the past been the second-biggest day for signups. Research has shown that the last week of open enrollment tends to draw younger enrollees, whose participation is critical to the stability of the Marketplace and to keeping premiums affordable. The White House’s efforts to suppress enrollment will therefore weaken the risk pool, resulting in greater costs for everyone.” The letter also requests that open enrollment advertisements be reinstated immediately, that the open enrollment period be extended for another two weeks to offset the impact of enrollment suppression, and that the agency take action to encourage Marketplace enrollment for 2017 and beyond. The members are also seeking additional information on the decision to halt open enrollment advertising and the agency’s plans to prepare for the next open enrollment season including: Who within the White House instructed HHS to halt paid media? Was funding for advertising, communications, and marketing plans rescinded? Does the Administration plan to keep the call centers to assist consumers open and appropriately staffed throughout 2017? Does the Administration plan to keep Healthcare.gov online throughout 2017? Does the Administration intend to continue to award Navigator grants to help consumers understand coverage options and financial assistance? A copy of the letter is available here.
01.29.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on President Donald J. Trump’s controversial Executive Order banning immigration from certain countries. “President Trump’s travel ban is wrong, divisive and contrary to America’s core values. Turning our back on refugees fleeing conflict and persecution will only damage our reputation around the globe. It will energize those bad actors who seek to do us harm. And judging by the chaos and confusion at our nation’s airports, the controversial executive order was not thoroughly vetted with the appropriate federal authorities. For more than 200 years, the Great Seal of the United States has been inscribed with the motto “E Pluribus Unum.” It means from many, we are one. President Trump’s ill-advised executive order, issued in his first week in office, contradicts that historical belief. As a result, I will support legislation in Congress this week to immediately overturn this misguided policy,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
01.19.2017	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Co-Chairman of the Friends of Ireland Caucus in the United States House of Representatives, released the following statement today following the decision of Sinn Fein’s Martin McGuinness to not see re-election to the power-sharing government in Belfast. “I have known Martin McGuinness for nearly 25 years and regard him as a close and dear friend. During that period of time, he has taken extraordinary risks for peace on the island of Ireland. Due to his leadership, a long conflict has come to an end, a society has been transformed, and a younger generation can now look forward to a shared and more prosperous future. Like many in America, I believe the Irish peace process was a model of successful conflict resolution, and Martin’s indispensable role in that effort can never be overstated. And as the co-equal leader of the power-sharing government in Belfast, his tenure will be remembered for its inclusivity, courage and mutual respect. He may be stepping aside from politics, but his remarkable work and in Ireland, and across the globe, will be remembered for years to come. I wish him and his family nothing but the very best.”
01.14.2017	"John Lewis has been my good friend and colleague for nearly 30 years. He is a Civil Rights icon and an American hero. His extraordinary courage has made our country a better and more inclusive place. And his quiet dignity has been a source of inspiration for countless people across the globe. I am always proud to stand with John Lewis," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement after the House passed S.Con.Res. 3, which would lay the groundwork to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and cause nearly 30 million Americans to lose their health insurance: “Today’s vote shows just how out of touch Republicans really are with middle-class families. For seven years, Republicans have railed against the Affordable Care Act but have failed to even agree on a single plan to adequately replace this landmark law. Despite Republican rhetoric, the facts are clear: this repeal plan would take away health insurance from nearly 30 million men, women, and children in this country. This job-killing proposal would hurt local hospitals and have a devastating economic impact on communities across the country. It would put insurance companies back in control of Americans’ health care by cutting consumer protections. And it would enable insurers to deny people coverage simply because they have pre-existing conditions like asthma or diabetes. This couldn’t get any farther from the ‘Better Way’ that Republicans promised for the American people. Democrats are united in our efforts to protect the progress we have achieved under the ACA.”
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) this morning appeared on MSNBC’s "Morning Joe" and discussed Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care, which would cause nearly 30 million Americans to lose their health insurance. Key Excerpts: On GOP Plans to Repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Sounds to me as though the rhetoric hasn’t caught up with the plan. I must tell you, sounds to me again as I’ve listened now and I heard Congressman Collins say, ‘Well, there are six different plans.’ Well, I must tell you, those of us on the Democratic side, we’ve not heard one of them, and we certainly have not seen one of them…They’ve had a bit of an open mic when it comes to talking about repeal, they’ve not concentrated on the idea of replace. So, I think that the opportunity that they’ve presented to the American people right now is pretty empty.” On potential changes to the Affordable Care Act: “Here’s the problem: Why wouldn’t they [Republicans] treat Obamacare the way we treated George Bush’s prescription D benefit plan?...We won the House, we won the Senate, we won the Presidency, and quickly we closed the ‘donut hole’ and moved on…Part D of Medicare is now an accepted entitlement. There was no effort made to repeal it. Instead, we improved it. And I think here, there was that opportunity but they have used the rhetoric of repeal, really without replace, and I’d like to improve it but here’s the other part of it that I think that bears noting: you need the mandate…you can’t do the other things by expanding coverage without requiring people to have health insurance.” On GOP efforts to eliminate the health insurance mandate in the Affordable Care Act: “What they’ve [Republicans] suggested is that you could actually wait until you got sick before you bought health insurance. Any actuary can tell you that the idea of insurance is to spread risk, but that risk includes the mandate, and I think in this instance here it’s the mandate that holds the entire Obamacare plan together. I think it’s an entirely reasonable expenditure.”
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) today released the following statement on H.Res. 5, the Republican rules package for the 115th Congress. Prior to the passage of H.Res. 5, Rep. Neal also spoke on the House Floor in opposition to the rules package – click here to view his remarks. “I am deeply concerned about a number of troubling changes in the Republican rules package, including new ways for House Republicans to hide from the American people the true cost of repealing the Affordable Care Act. House Republicans continue to cover up for a flawed repeal plan that would dramatically increase federal spending, raise taxes on the middle class, and take away health insurance coverage and popular consumer protections from millions of Americans. “The facts are crystal clear: the ACA has and continues to work. Just look at some cost stabilizing and quality aspects of the ACA: it has extended the Medicare trust fund solvency for 10 years; about 137 million Americans have access to recommended preventative services without cost sharing; and Medicare enrollees have avoided 565,000 unnecessary hospital admissions. “What’s worse than taking away a program that is already helping millions of middle class families is lying to the American people about the real cost of doing so. Despite Republicans’ efforts to sweep their healthcare failures under the rug, Democrats will continue to work to expose the hard cost of repeal.”
12.16.2016	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today calling for a bipartisan investigation into allegations that the Russian government deliberately interfered in the 2016 presidential election. “The most senior national security and law enforcement officials in the country have said that Russia interfered in the presidential election to help determine its outcome. The United States intelligence community, including the CIA, believes the integrity of our electoral system was put at risk due to Russian cyberattacks. Under no circumstances can we let our democratic process be threatened, undermined or manipulated by a foreign government. That is why I strongly support a bipartisan congressional investigation into these serious allegations. I strongly believe every American has the right to know the degree to which the Kremlin may have influenced the 2016 elections through these troubling hacks,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
12.16.2016	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) published a comprehensive plan to substantially improve rail infrastructure along the Northeast Corridor (NEC) over the next 25 years at a cost of $130 billion. According to the FRA, the proposal will “upgrade aging infrastructure and improve the reliability, capacity, connectivity, performance, and resiliency of passenger rail service on the NEC for both intercity and regional trips, while promoting environmental sustainability and economic growth.” Rail service will significantly grow across the region with ridership projected to double by 2040 to 520 million a year. There will be faster trips, additional track and expanded service with as many as 35 daily trips between Springfield and New York City. The NEC FUTURE Final EIS has been posted here: https://necfuture.com/ “The release of this federal report is exciting news for the supporters of expanded rail service in the region. I have always believed that we should be investing more in our infrastructure, and this proposal is a generous down payment on the future of local transportation. This plan will result in more trains, faster trips and expanded service across the Northeast Corridor. With as many as 35 eventual daily trips between Springfield and New York City, its impact on Union Station will be significant. The importance of expanded and improved rail service cannot be minimized, and this ambitious program will help transform our regional rail system, and grow the economy in the process,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
12.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA), incoming Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement after the top Social Security Republican introduced legislation to cut Social Security benefits: “Less than one week after Speaker Paul Ryan told 60 Minutes that he had no plans to change Social Security, the Republican Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee introduced a bill that would dramatically cut Social Security benefits. As Congressional Republicans prepare to dismantle Medicare and Medicaid, it now appears that Social Security has been added to the Republicans’ chopping block. America’s seniors will be alarmed to hear that the top Republican on this important Subcommittee quietly put forward a plan to drastically cut Social Security benefits for millions of seniors. Instead of honoring the promises made to our seniors, the Republican plan would amount to a massive cut in Social Security benefits for working Americans through cuts to the cost-of-living adjustment (COLA), raising the retirement age to 69 and cuts to the benefit-computation formula. Ultimately, this translates to a 30% or more cut in benefits for middle class retirees. Social Security is the bedrock of retirement security – a benefit that seniors have earned through contributions over a lifetime of work. We should be strengthening Social Security, not cutting it. Democrats will fight any effort to undercut Social Security, just as we will fight any plan to replace Medicare with a voucher.”
12.08.2016	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Dean of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation, released the following statement today on the passing of former United States Senator John Glenn. “I consider myself fortunate to have served in the United States Congress with John Glenn. In every aspect of his extraordinary life, John Glenn displayed the right stuff. He was a Marine, the first American to orbit the Earth, a United States Senator, and a recipient of Presidential Medal of Freedom. He is American icon who made the country optimistic, assured and hopeful through his work in the space program. He was a role model for a generation and will be greatly missed by the American family,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
11.28.2016	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in response to the recent decision by the Hampshire College Board of Trustees to not fly the American flag on their campus in Amherst for the remainder of 2016 and beyond. “Like the vast majority of Americans, I believe the First Amendment is one of our most important and cherished rights. And the freedom of speech remains the cornerstone of our democracy. But as the students, faculty and administrators of Hampshire College continue to debate some of the challenges facing our country today, I would encourage them to do so while flying the American flag on their campus. For more than two hundred years, the stars and stripes have been an important expression our unity, freedom, and independence around the world. It is not a divisive symbol. In my opinion, the Hampshire College community can have a genuine conversation about our future while respecting the American flag in the process,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and Rob Portman (R-Ohio), both members of the Senate Finance Committee, and U.S. Representatives Pat Tiberi (R-Ohio) and Richard E. Neal (D-Mass.), both members of the House Ways & Means Committee, introduced updated legislation Wednesday designed to protect the retirement security of many American workers. The Retirement Security Preservation Act of 2016 (RSPA) amends the nondiscrimination rules that apply to qualified retirement plans to protect older, longer-service participants whose defined benefit plans have been closed or frozen. The bill builds on previous legislation and regulatory work to address this issue, and was approved unanimously by the Senate Finance Committee as part of a retirement-related legislative package in September. “Older workers who have been saving for their retirement should not be penalized playing by the rules and planning ahead,” said Senator Cardin. “We need to get back to the original intent of the regulations, which was to encourage greater participation in retirement savings programs.” “This measure will help safeguard the retirement security of hundreds of thousands of working families who are counting on their pension benefits in their retirement,” Senator Portman said. “There is strong bipartisan support for this measure in both the House and Senate, and both chambers should pass it quickly so it can be signed into law.” “This common sense fix will go a long way to protect retirement and pension plans for older Americans,” said Congressman Tiberi. “The Retirement Security Preservation Act would give certainty to employers and prevent their longer-service employees from unfairly losing their pension benefits due to the IRS’s nondiscrimination rules.” “I have always believed that helping Americans achieve retirement security in their golden years should not be a partisan issue. And this common sense legislation that enjoys support on both sides of the aisle would immediately protect the retirement nest eggs for millions of households. The Congress should vote on this important retirement savings measure at the earliest opportunity,” said Congressman Neal. Over the past several years, many companies have transitioned from “traditional” defined benefit (DB) plans to other retirement plan models, such as defined contribution (DC) plans. In doing so, a large number of these companies have elected to grandfather existing employees by closing their traditional DB plans (also known as “soft freezing”); other companies have “hard frozen” their traditional DB plans but assisted existing employees in other ways, such as through enhanced DC plan contributions. When a plan closes, existing participants or a subset of participants continue to earn benefits under the traditional DB plan. When a plan is “hard frozen,” employees earn no new benefits under the plan. Over time, existing employees in the closed plan typically build seniority and become more highly compensated than younger, newer employees, who are more likely to have greater job turnover. This widens the income gap between the employees in the closed plan and the new employees. Because the grandfathered group in the closed plan generally becomes more highly compensated, closed plans almost always end up inadvertently violating the IRS nondiscrimination testing rules. This clearly is not the intended effect of the nondiscrimination rules, which were written to strengthen retirement security, rather than to force many older employees into different types of plans that may not provide enough time to accumulate sufficient benefits before retirement. The RSPA addresses the problem by amending the nondiscrimination rules to protect older workers in plans that have been closed or frozen. The bill also contains anti-abuse rules related to closed and frozen plans. The legislation is based on H.R. 5381 and S. 2855, which were introduced in the 113th Congress. Since the introduction of those bills, Treasury has proposed regulations that partially address these issues, but only for a certain subset of affected plans. The RSPA incorporates elements of the Treasury regulations and provides targeted relief to plans who are not be able to take advantage of the Treasury regulations. A summary of the bill can be found here. Bill text can be downloaded here.
11.15.2016	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after President-elect Donald Trump named controversial alt-right movement leader Steve Bannon as his Chief Strategist in the White House. “Less than a week after he pledged to “bind the wounds of division,” President-elect Donald Trump has appointed a controversial, partisan and polarizing figure to the most powerful position in the White House. If he wanted to send a message to the American people that he was sincere about uniting the country, the President-elect would not have asked alt-right leader Steve Bannon to serve as White House Chief Strategist. His history of anti-Semitism, bigotry and homophobia is well known, and should be deeply troubling to every member of the American family. When former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke calls Bannon’s appointment “excellent,” that should be a clear signal to President-elect Trump that he made a bad decision. As he continues to assemble his White House staff, I hope the President-elect will appoint individuals with unquestionable integrity who share our country’s core principles and values. Reince Priebus, the mainstream Republican tapped to become the next Chief of Staff, passes that test. Unfortunately, Steve Bannon does not.”
11.04.2016	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, the Dean of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation, released the following statement today after the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid approved a five year, $52.4 billion waiver for the restructuring of the MassHealth program. Neal is a senior member of the influential House Ways and Means Committee that has jurisdiction over Medicare, Medicaid and the nation’s health care policy. “Getting this approval from CMS has been one of my top priorities for more than a year. I have had several conversations with Secretary Burwell about this issue and told her the waiver was critically important to both hospitals and patients in Massachusetts. When implemented, our health care delivery system will be transformed, money will be saved, and millions of patients across the state will benefit. In my opinion, today’s announcement is a smart $52 billion investment in our local health care infrastructure,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
10.26.2016	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after Secretary of Defense Ash Carter announced he was ordering the Defense Department to suspend its policy of reclaiming enlistment bonuses paid to National Guard soldiers in California. “With Barnes Air National Guard Base and Westover Air Reserve Base in western Massachusetts, I have seen firsthand what our nation’s reservists and guardsmen sacrificed and endured during the height of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. These brave men and women served with distinction and should not be put in undue financial hardship for an error that was not their fault. I applaud the decision of Defense Secretary Ash Carter today to have the Department of Defense suspend seeking repayment for enlistment bonuses that were improperly given to National Guardsmen in California. As Department of Defense continues to address this unfortunate situation, I would urge them to find a permanently resolution to the claw-back policy rather than burdening the members of the United States Armed Forces who are the front lines every day keeping our country safe,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. (NOTE: Congressman Neal also co-signed a bipartisan letter this week with 75 other Members of Congress calling for an immediate halt to the unfair enlistment bonus recoupment for National Guard members. A copy of the letter is attached above).
10.24.2016	Washington, DC - Today, United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Representative Richard Neal applauded the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Section 108 Loan Guarantee to support Springfield's Downtown Dining District Loan Fund project. The project will create a low-interest fund and provide loans ranging from $50,000 to $200,000 to support new full-service restaurants and job opportunities in Springfield's business district. "This federal support will help Springfield continue its efforts to revitalize downtown and grow the local economy," Senator Warren said. "I was glad to work with Mayor Sarno and the congressional delegation to help secure this award, and I look forward to seeing the project move forward." "Since the devastating 2011 tornado, Springfield and its residents have continued to show resilience as they rebuild and revitalize the city. By leveraging this federal support from HUD, Springfield can continue to spur development in its business district, facilitate more public-private partnerships, and create permanent jobs in the community. I commend Springfield and HUD for partnering to make the city a culinary destination and to continue to revitalize downtown," said Senator Markey. "From the restoration of historic Union Station in the city's north blocks, to the construction of MGM on Main Street, Springfield is experiencing a remarkable revival. Public and private investment in the central business district is creating jobs and promoting economic development. The city has now come up with an innovative plan to help entrepreneurs establish new restaurants downtown. This federal assistance from HUD will fund the program and give our local eateries a unique opportunity to grow," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.Springfield Mayor Domenic Sarno stated, "Chief Development Officer Kevin Kennedy and I are very appreciative of Congressman Neal's, Senator Warren's and Senator Markey's continued efforts to provide for our City of Springfield. This Dining District project will continue to not only transform our downtown area, but also enhance and stimulate economic development in our soon-to-be-opened Innovation District area too."
09.30.2016	Washington, D.C. - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Representatives Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen Lynch, and Bill Keating announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded organizations in Massachusetts a total of $1,873,778 in funding through the Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) to assist victims of housing discrimination. More information about this federal grant program is available at HUD's website here. "Everyone in this country deserves a fighting chance to build a future, but housing discrimination undermines our communities and makes it harder for families to climb the economic ladder," Senator Warren said. "We have an obligation to combat segregation, and to ensure that a safe and affordable home is in reach for all our families. I'm happy this federal funding will help organizations across the Commonwealth that are doing outstanding work providing assistance to people facing discrimination." "The Fair Housing Initiatives Program is an integral part of the ongoing federal effort to remove the vestiges of discrimination from our housing system. Every citizen in Massachusetts and across the country has the right to live in the home and community they have earned. I am proud that these Massachusetts programs are receiving funding to continue working towards this goal," said Senator Markey. "Fair housing organizations provide important services for people in cities and towns across western Massachusetts. They enforce the guidelines of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 which strictly prohibits discrimination when it comes to the sale, rent or financing of housing. I strongly believe someone's race, color, sex or religion should not prohibit them from having a decent place to live or raise a family. And these organizations are on the front lines making sure peoples basic rights are being protected," said Congressman Neal. "Every family needs a roof over their head and a safe place to call home. Community Legal Aid in Worcester and fair housing organizations across Massachusetts play a vital role in our communities by working to prevent discrimination in housing," Congressman McGovern said. "In 2016, it is unthinkable that anyone would be denied housing because of their race, gender, religion, or national origin. This new federal funding will help so many families by supporting the great work local organizations are doing to protect equal access to housing for everyone in Massachusetts. I am grateful to HUD for this strong investment and look forward to seeing all the good it will do in our communities." "These federal funds will give Massachusetts fair housing organizations more resources to uncover instances of discrimination and help those who believe they have been denied housing. This important work enforces fair housing laws and helps ensure that people have equal access to residential properties" said Congressman Capuano. "I am very pleased that HUD's Fair Housing Initiatives Program awarded more than $1.8M in grant funding to organizations across Massachusetts who are working hard to prevent discrimination and expand access to housing. Suffolk University and the Fair Housing Center of Greater Boston are strong advocates for families across the 8th Congressional District and ensure that our country's fair housing laws and the Commonwealth's additional protections are strictly enforced," said Congressman Lynch. "I am very pleased to join in announcing $425,000 in federal funding for SouthCoast Fair Housing, Inc. This organization plays a critical role in protecting renters and buyers from housing discrimination and prejudice, while ensuring that access to affordable housing remains an opportunity for residents throughout Bristol and Plymouth Counties. Receipt of this funding will preserve SCFH's irreplaceable work in uncovering transgressions and promoting tolerance," said Congressman Keating. Organizations in Massachusetts receiving awards include: Community Legal Aid, Inc. (Worcester) - $300,000 Fair Housing Center of Greater Boston (Boston) - $300,000 HAP, Inc. (Springfield) - $125,000 Massachusetts Fair Housing Center, Inc. (Holyoke) - $300,000 SouthCoast Fair Housing, Inc. (New Bedford) - $425,000 Suffolk University (Boston) - $423,778
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Recently, the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) responded to a request from Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Rep. Richard E. Neal (D-MA) for an updated estimate of how much money from America’s job creators is currently trapped overseas. The JCT estimates that there now is $2.6 trillion in “earnings of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. Corporations held offshore”—up from $2.3 trillion in 2012. In other words, many American job creators with foreign subsidiaries are forced to invest their earnings abroad instead of at home due to America’s sky-high corporate tax rate. “The latest estimate from JCT is further proof that our broken, outdated tax code stands in the way of increased investment and job creation in America, and our global competitors are reaping the trillions of dollars in benefits,” Chairman Brady said. “Our tax code should encourage our job creators to invest in our local communities, not in other countries. That’s why we need a pro-growth, 21st century tax code that encourages businesses to bring stranded income back home to reinvest in our communities—creating new jobs, increasing wages, and growing American businesses.” “Today’s JCT estimate highlights the need for comprehensive pro-growth tax reform that not only strengthens the economy, but also makes the necessary investments in our infrastructure. For too long, trillions of dollars have been stuck overseas providing no benefit to the American people. Real tax reform must encourage these corporations to bring this money back to the United States to invest in our businesses and increase wages for our workers. I look forward to working with Chairman Brady in a bipartisan way to put these dollars to effective use, while also making our businesses more competitive,” said Congressman Neal. Background: On August 25, 2016, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady and Rep. Richard Neal requested from the JCT an updated estimate of the total amount of money accumulated deferred foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. corporations that is held offshore. On August 31, 2016, JCT Chief of Staff Thomas Barthold provided two separate estimates. The first estimate of $2.6 trillion (up from $2.3 trillion in 2012) is based on the most recent tax return data with a projection to 2015 based on ordinary growth of the world economies and corporate earnings and profits. The second estimate of $2.4 trillion (up from $1.8 trillion in 2012) is the amount reported by Audit Analytics based on data from financial statements of the publicly traded corporations in the Russell 1000.
09.15.2016	Today, Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH) and Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA) introduced the Synthetics Trafficking & Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act, legislation designed to help stop dangerous synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil from being shipped through our borders to drug traffickers here in the United States. Senators Rob Portman, Ron Johnson and Kelly Ayotte introduced the STOP Act in the Senate on September 7, 2016. Rep. Tiberi released the following statement: “Recently, a dangerous spike in overdoses hit our own communities in Cincinnati, Columbus and across Ohio because of the extreme potency of synthetic drugs mixed with heroin. The STOP Act would enhance the U.S. Postal Service’s process of tracking shipments from foreign countries to detect illicit and counterfeit goods, like synthetic drugs such as fentanyl and carfentanil, and stop them from crossing our borders into the United States. “In Ohio, we must stand on a united front to fight the opioid epidemic and save more lives. I’m thankful for Senator Rob Portman’s leadership and I look forward to building support for this important legislation in the House.” Rep. Neal released the following statement: “Each day, nearly 125 Americans are dying from drug related overdoses. Many of these victims are succumbing to powerful synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil which are hundreds of times more potent than heroin. The toll these deadly drugs are taking in our communities is alarming and unprecedented. That is why I am joining my colleague Congressman Tiberi in a bipartisan effort to stop this growing epidemic. We must do all we can to stop these dangerous drugs from coming through our borders.” NOTE: Fentanyl and, increasingly, carfentanil are causing a spike in overdoses and deaths around the country. China and India have been cited as the primary source countries for illicitly produced fentanyl and carfentanil in the United States. Companies based in these and other foreign countries take advantage of weaknesses in international mail security standards to break U.S. customs laws and regulations by shipping drugs directly through the U.S. postal system. Unlike UPS or FedEx, the U.S. Postal Service does not require advance electronic customs data for the vast majority of mail entering the United States. Because of the volume of mail, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) cannot manually scan these packages and stop illicit goods from crossing our borders. The Synthetics Trafficking & Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act is designed to stop dangerous synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil from being shipped through our borders. Specifically, the bill would require shipments from foreign countries through our postal system to provide electronic advance data—such as who and where it is coming from, who it’s going to, where it is going, and what’s in it—before they cross our borders and enter the United States. Having this information in advance will enable CBP to better target potential illegal packages and keep these dangerous drugs from ending up in the hands of drug traffickers who want to harm our local communities. Read the STOP Act
09.09.2016	Washington, D.C. - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey along with Representatives Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, and Niki Tsongas announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded four fire departments in Massachusetts $2.6 million in grants through the Staffing for Adequate & Fire Emergency Response (SAFER) and the Fire Prevention & Safety (FP&S) programs. SAFER grants are awarded to support the hiring of trained, "front line" firefighters in communities and FP&S grants are awarded to support projects that enhance the safety of the public and of firefighters. The FEMA fire grants awarded today to Massachusetts fire departments include: $1,245,940 SAFER grant to the Holyoke Fire Department to fill ten positions vacated by attrition $1,122,864 SAFER grant to the Pittsfield Fire Department to hire four new firefighters and to fill four positions vacated by attrition $96,439 SAFER grant to the Tyngsborough Fire Department to fund a call/volunteer firefighter recruitment & retention program $173,131 FP&S grant to the Worcester Fire Department for a safe cooking fire prevention program "Massachusetts firefighters put their lives on the line to keep our families safe, and they deserve our thanks and our support," Senator Elizabeth Warren said. "I'm very glad that these federal grants will help ensure that our fire departments have the staff and resources they need to serve our communities safely and effectively." "Massachusetts firefighters are committed to ensuring the safety and security of their communities and these new grants will enhance their ability to do so. Our first responders are our hometown heroes, but heroes need help too. These important federal grants will help us recruit and hire more firefighters and ensure they can efficiently and effectively protect the citizens of our cities and towns," said Senator Edward J. Markey. "The firefighters and first responders in western Massachusetts put their lives at risk every day helping to keep our communities safe. In an emergency, they think of others before they think of themselves. I want to congratulate Chief Pond of Holyoke and Chief Czerwinski of Pittsfield and their teams for securing these significant federal grants. These funds will allow both departments to hire more personnel to improve their ability to respond to all fire related hazards. It's very good news for both cities," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "Our community in Worcester is safer thanks to Chief Gardell and our local firefighters. The Safe Cooking Program is a great community partnership that helps the Worcester Fire Department educate local residents about fire safety in the kitchen," Congressman Jim McGovern said. I am grateful to FEMA for providing this funding that will help to continue this important program and keep Worcester seniors and other local residents safe at home." "The Tyngsborough Fire Department received these needed federal funds through a competitive grant process, which speaks to both the quality of their application and the Department in general. Given the constraints on state and local budgets, competitive grant funds such as these help to maintain public safety in our communities and provide first responders with access to the resources they need to save lives. Our volunteer and career firefighters sacrifice a great deal to protect our communities and it is our duty to provide them with the equipment, staffing and training they need to keep their departments running safely and efficiently," said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. More information about FEMA's fire grant programs is available here.
04.17.2015	The Opioid Overdose Reduction Act of 2015 addresses America’s growing Heroin epidemic (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA), Congressman Frank Guinta (R-NH) and Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-VA) introduced bipartisan legislation in the United States House of Representatives this week to help prevent prescription drug and heroin overdoses in United States. The rising tide of drug addiction across America is deeply troubling. Every day, 120 people die as a result of drug overdoses fueled by prescription painkillers, and another 6,748 are treated in emergency rooms for the misuse or abuse of illegal drugs. According to The Washington Post, “overdosing is now the leading cause of accidental death in the United States, accounting for more deaths than traffic fatalities or gun homicides and suicides. Fatal overdoses from opiate medications such as oxycodone, hydrocodone and methadone have quadrupled since 1999, accounting for an estimated 16,651 deaths in 2010.” In the United States, prescription opioid abuse costs were roughly $55.7 billion in 2007. Of this amount, 46% was attributed to workplace Costs (e.g., lost productivity), 45% to healthcare costs (e.g., abuse treatment), and 9% to criminal justice costs. The absolute scale of this drug epidemic is dramatic: nearly 420,040 emergency room visits each year are a result of opioid pain medication abuse. Death from heroin and other opioid drugs may be prevented if the victim is administered an opioid overdose drug, such as Naloxone (aka Narcan), in a timely manner. Several states, including Massachusetts, have established programs allowing for the dispensation of opioid overdose drugs by non-medical personnel, including first responders, family members, and friends. These innovative programs have helped save thousands of lives. However, the willingness of medical and non-medical personnel to administer opioid overdose drugs may be deterred by civil liability. And the willingness of physicians to prescribe opioid overdose medications to persons other than a patient may also be deterred by other court enforced action.The Opioid Overdose Reduction Act of 2015 would exempt from civil liability emergency administration of opioid overdose-reversing drugs, like naloxone, by people who prescribe or are prescribed them. When am opioid overdose occurs, administration of an opioid Reversal drug is necessary to prevent death. But it must occur within a certain window of time before the chance of survival is lost. This is a time of quick action, not deliberations over a potential lawsuit. First responders and other “Good Samaritans” who have the means to treat an opioid overdose should not be dealt this burden. A summary of the bill and a list of endorsements is attached.“Prescription drug and heroin overdoses have reached epidemic proportions in the United States. In the past ten years, opioid prescriptions have doubled. Every day, 120 people overdose on illegal drugs and prescription painkillers. Drugs like naloxone provide the means to counteract the effects of opioid overdoses. This is a life-saving treatment, but many are deterred from providing these medications for fear of litigation. This bipartisan legislation hopes to correct that resistance immediately,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Heroin and other illicit drugs are now killing more Granite Staters than traffic accidents, bringing into clear focus New Hampshire’s heroin emergency. This is unacceptable, and must be dealt with immediately. I have been working with and speaking to stakeholders on this issue from first responders, to mental health and substance abuse counselors among others to identify solutions to eliminate this growing problem. This bipartisan bill is one part of an overall strategy to tackle this by providing protection to first responders educated in administering Narcan to reverse the effects of an overdose, saving the lives of countless individuals in the process,” said Congressman Frank Guinta. “This public safety legislation will help save lives and get opioid reversing drugs into the hands of first responders and ‘Good Samaritans’ so they can stop the deadly effects of heroin when an overdose occurs,” said Congresswoman Comstock. “Earlier this month I joined Loudon County Sheriff Mike Chapman in the formation of the regional Heroin Operations Team in Northern Virginia. Heroin is an increasing problem in our community and the Opioid Overdose Reduction Act of 2015 will provide an additional tool to our first responders to deal with this on the frontlines. A Senate companion bill has been cosponsored by U.S. Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA).”
04.17.2015	Over the last decade, overdoses from opioids have increased dramatically in the United States. Every day, 120 people die as a result of drug overdose fueled by prescription painkillers, and another 6,748 are treated in emergency departments for the misuse or abuse of drugs. Nationwide, drug overdoses now claim more lives than motor vehicle accidents. In the United States, prescription opioid abuse costs were about $55.7 billion in 2007. Of this amount, 46% was attributable to workplace costs (e.g., lost productivity), 45% to healthcare costs (e.g., abuse treatment), and 9% to criminal justice costs. The absolute scale of this is dramatic: roughly 420,040 emergency room visits each year are attributed to misuse or abuse of opioid pain medications. Death from heroin and other opioid drugs may be prevented if the victim is administered an opioid overdose drug, such as naloxone (aka Narcan), in a timely manner. Several states, including Massachusetts, have established programs allowing for the administration of opioid overdose drugs by non-medical personnel, including first responders, family members, and friends. These programs have saved thousands of lives. However, the willingness of medical and non-medical personnel to administer opioid overdose drugs may be deterred by potential civil liability. And the willingness of physicians to prescribe opioid overdose drugs to persons other than a patient may also be deterred by potential civil liability. The Opioid Overdose Reduction Act of 2015: Exempts from civil liability individuals who provide or administer an opioid overdose drug under certain circumstances: Exempts health care professionals from civil liability from any harm caused by the emergency administration of an opioid overdose drug that they prescribe or provide to any person provided that person receives education in the proper administration of the opioid overdose drug and steps to be taken after administration of the drug. Exempts individuals who work or volunteer at an opioid overdose program from civil liability from any harm caused by the emergency administration of an opioid overdose drug that they provide as a part of an opioid overdose program Exempts individuals, including police and other responders, who administer an opioid overdose drug to a person who is or reasonably appears to have suffered an overdose from civil liability provided they either are doing so pursuant to a prescription or they obtained the overdose drug from an overdose program or a healthcare professional and received education in the proper administration of the overdose drug, including steps to be taken after administration of the drug. Allows states to override the Opioid Overdose Reduction Act if they enact specific legislation pursuant to the Act. The bill is endorsed by the following organizations: Trust for America’s Health (TFAH) American Medical Association American Psychiatric Association Association of State and Territorial Health Officials Community Anti-drug Coalitions of America (CADCA) American Society of Addiction Medicine Drug Policy Alliance Harm Reduction Coalition New Hampshire Association of Chiefs of Police Massachusetts Organization for Addiction Recovery (MOAR) Learn2Cope Association of Behavioral Healthcare, Massachusetts Massachusetts Sheriff’s Association Massachusetts Association of Behavioral Health Systems American Medical Response American Ambulance Association
03.17.2015	Washington, Mar 17 - Reps. Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), Peter DeFazio (D, OR-04), Mike Kelly (R, PA-03) and Richard Neal (D, MA-01) are pleased to announce the House Small Brewers Caucus has been reestablished in the 114th Congress. Founded by DeFazio and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) in 2007, this bipartisan group is dedicated to issues affecting America’s small brewers and currently includes 143 members of the House. Craft brewing is a fast-growing, $34 billion+ industry that directly supports 115,000 American jobs. In order to create a better business environment for small brewers, the Caucus is backing legislation that would reduce the excise taxes on the sale of the first two million barrels of beer sold by small brewers each year. The Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce (BREW) Act would allow small brewers to use the savings to purchase more equipment and hire more workers, boosting local economies in communities across the country. "With over 20 small breweries in the 10th District I know the positive, job-creating impact these small businesses can have,” McHenry said. “I look forward to continuing as Vice Chairman of the Caucus as we work in a bipartisan fashion to advance their interests." “If you need an example of how craft breweries affect local economies, just look at Oregon,” DeFazio said. “Even during the recession, craft breweries experienced strong growth and today, it’s a $3 billion industry in my state. These small businesses support thousands of local jobs and provide the rest of us with a quality American product. This is exactly the kind of growth I’m proud to support.” “I am very excited to begin work with the Small Brewers Caucus and honored to serve as a co-chairman,” Kelly said. “These main street businesses contribute powerfully to their local economies and provide many thousands of jobs to hardworking Americans from coast to coast. In Pennsylvania alone, craft breweries add to the commonwealth’s economy by nearly $2 billion. I look forward to making sure national policy allows them to keep brewing, growing, and creating more American jobs.” “The craft brewing industry in Massachusetts is thriving because they make distinctive products for passionate consumers. These breweries are locally owned, generate economic development and create good jobs. I have been an enthusiastic supporter of these small businesses and entrepreneurs and I am proud to be a part of the leadership of this bipartisan caucus,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “The Brewers Association would like to congratulate Rep. DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Kelly (R-PA), Rep. Neal (D-MA) and Rep. McHenry (R-NC), Co-Chairs and Vice Chairs, respectively, of the House Small Brewers Caucus,” said Bob Pease, president and CEO of the Brewers Association. “They and the other 143 members of Congress who make up the Caucus recognize the economic impact that craft breweries have had over the past 25 years and continue to have in their communities across the country. More than 3,400 craft breweries are responsible for employing more than 115,000 Americans in quality manufacturing and service jobs. We thank the Chairs and Vice Chairs for their efforts, which help foster the continued growth of—and job creation by—craft breweries across the country.”
02.10.2015	U.S. Congressmen Pat Tiberi (R-OH), Richard Neal (D-MA), and Tom Reed (R-NY) today introduced a bill that would make permanent a tax credit proven to create jobs and encourage community investment. The New Markets Tax Credit was established in 2000 and has proven to be a cost-effective incentive that spurs private investment in low-income rural communities and urban neighborhoods where access to capital is often limited. The New Markets Tax Credit attracts capital by providing private investors with a 39 percent credit against federal income taxes for investments made in some of the most distressed areas in the country. This bill would extend and expand this program. “I’ve seen first-hand the benefits of the New Markets Tax Credit in the 12th Congressional District,” said Congressman Tiberi. “Whether it is the financing of a new grocery store in a previously under-served area in Columbus, creating 46 full- and part-time jobs during the project’s first phase or the funding of a recreation and aquatic center in Muskingum County that supports nearly 70 jobs, this tax credit is a tool to help revitalize communities by not only putting people to work but by funding projects that are a community benefit.” “Since its inception in 2000, the New Markets Tax Credit has shown that it is a federal program that works—spurring investment that that grows local economies and generates jobs in the most distressed communities across the nation.” Rep. Neal said. “In the last fourteen years, the New Markets Tax Credit has generated $63 billion in capital for projects in low income communities resulting and created over 744,000 jobs in traditionally overlooked communities- like Springfield, Holyoke and Pittsfield.” "However, barring Congressional action, this critical initiative will soon end. That is why I am proud to introduce legislation with Reps. Tiberi and Reed to make the New Markets Tax Credit permanent, and ensure another decade of key investments reach Western Massachusetts,” Rep. Neal added. “The New Markets Tax Credit is a powerful tool to bring rebirth in our communities. Here in the Southern Tier and Finger Lakes, a YMCA brought needed jobs to a rural community hard-hit by unemployment,” said Reed. “Another project in Elmira rehabbed a historic movie theatre leveraging $25 million in investment and creating a community performing arts center. Nationally, successful projects like TRIAD Manufacturing, which I toured in St. Louis, show how NMTC can assist in renewing our own domestic manufacturing sector. Making this tax credit permanent would ensure that successful projects will continue to remake our communities. It helps fulfill our commitment to erasing poverty and caring for communities.” With the capital raised from the tax credit, community development entities finance loans and investments in business and economic development projects that may not be financed in other ways. Nationwide, the New Markets Tax Credit inventive has generated more than 744,000 jobs and spurred $63 billion of investment in 4,000 businesses. "Clearly, the time is now,” said Finance Fund CEO and New Markets Tax Credit Coalition Treasurer James R. Klein. The Finance Fund is based in Columbus. “In this climate of economic uncertainly, permanently reauthorizing the New Markets Tax Credit program brings stability to a proven effective government program that incents market-driven private investment in highly distressed communities. In Ohio, the Credit has helped create more than 30,000 construction jobs and nearly 12,000 full-time jobs.” U.S. Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) plans to introduce companion legislation in the Senate.
02.05.2015	Bi-partisan measure ends unfair WEP provision; provides each treatment in Social Security for teachers, fire fighters and law enforcement Washington, DC -- A bipartisan bill has been filed in the U.S. House of Representatives to treat teachers, firefighters and police officers who paid into Social Security the same as other American workers. U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Richard Neal (D-Massachusetts), senior members of the House Ways & Means Committee, are leading the effort to alter the controversial Social Security provision known as the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP). "Our bill strengthens the solvency of Social Security while guaranteeing our public servants receive the full benefits they earned when paying into the program,” said Brady. “Those who teach our children and protect and serve us everyday deserve equal treatment when they retire. Social Security benefits should be based on your real-life contributions, not some arbitrary formula." “If Americans are going to enjoy their golden years financially secure and comfortable, they must have a sound retirement plan. That is why I have been a strong supporter of the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act. Our dedicated public employees have paid into Social Security and they are entitled to their full benefits, just like any other worker. I am happy to join with my colleague Congressman Kevin Brady in a bipartisan effort to provide fair and just treatment for our retired public employees,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. Brady and Neal introduced H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment for Public Servants Act. It repeals the 1980’s era WEP which impacts 1.3 million public servants who earn a pension at work as well as in Social Security. The WEP can dock monthly Social Security benefits as much as $413 a month. Instead, H.R. 711 bases Social Security on real life earnings and work history.
01.22.2015	Auto-IRA Act will help enhance retirement security WASHINGTON -- Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA) introduced legislation today that would dramatically enhance the retirement security of millions of Americans. According to most financial planners, the United States is at the precipice of an impending retirement crisis. Many Americans are simply not saving enough to be financially secure in retirement. It is estimated that 75 million workers have no employer-provided retirement plan or other opportunity to save through workplace contributions. The Automatic IRA Act offers a common-sense solution to dramatically expand retirement savings in the U.S. Under the bill, tens of millions of workers would be eligible to save for retirement through a simple payroll deduction. The non-partisan Retirement Security Project has estimated the Whitehouse-Neal Auto IRA proposal could raise net national savings by nearly $8 billion annually. “Getting more low and middle-income workers into the retirement savings system remains one of my top priorities. Far too many Americans are putting their retirement at risk because they do not have access to a workplace savings plan. I believe this auto-IRA bill can dramatically improve their post-employment years. By making it easier for workers to save, millions of Americans will enjoy their retirement more secure and content,” said Congressman Neal, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Each month, tens of millions of Americans build toward a comfortable and dignified retirement by contributing to employer-based savings plan. Unfortunately, half of American workers don’t have access to employment-based accounts and may find it much more difficult to save,” said Senator Whitehouse. “This bill would give those without access to a 401 (k) plan the opportunity to benefit from automatic monthly savings. Coupled with Social Security, such tax-preferred savings can help people in Rhode Island and across the country enjoy financial freedom in their golden years.” The Whitehouse-Neal legislation creates automatic payroll deposit Individual Retirement Accounts, or Auto IRAs, for workers who do not have access to employer-provided qualified retirement plans. The bill would also require employers with 10 or more employees to automatically enroll workers in an Auto IRA unless the employee opts out. The employers could receive tax credits to defray the costs of setting up the accounts. We know that automatic enrollment has been extremely successful in getting more people to save for retirement. Studies have shown that participation rates are at least 10 percentage points higher in plans with automatic enrollment (77 percent) than those without it (67 percent). The GAO also found that automatic IRA enrollment could increase the number of lower-earning households with retirement savings and increase retirement income as well. The Auto IRA proposal, which was jointly developed by Brookings Institution and Heritage Foundation scholars, has garnered widespread support, including the AARP, the U.S. Black Chamber, the Women's Institute for a Secure Retirement, and the Aspen Institute Initiative on Financial Security. #30#
06.27.2014	THE WHITE HOUSE Office of Communications FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 27, 2014White House Honors Re-entry and Employment “Champions of Change” WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday, June 30, 2014 at 2:00 PM the White House will honor local "Champions of Change" who are doing extraordinary work to facilitate employment opportunities for individuals formerly involved in the justice system. The Champions have distinguished themselves through their extraordinary dedication and hard work to help those with criminal records re-enter society with dignity and viable employment opportunities. This event will showcase these inspirational leaders and highlight the importance of their work. The program will feature Attorney General Eric Holder and Piper Kerman, author of the best-selling memoir Orange is the New Black: My Year in a Women’s Prison and inspiration for the comedy-drama series, will also participate. The Champions of Change program was created as an opportunity for the White House to feature individuals doing extraordinary things to empower and inspire members of their communities. The event will be live streamed on the White House website at www.whitehouse.gov/live. To learn more about the White House Champions of Change program, visit www.whitehouse.gov/champions.Marianne Ali, Bowie, MD Marianne is the Director of DCCK’s Culinary Job Training Program, which empowers unemployed men and women of the DC metropolitan area, many of whom have been homeless, incarcerated, and drug-addicted, to begin careers in the culinary arts. Under her direction, culinary instruction, and program management, the Culinary Job Training Program has changed the lives of over 1500 graduates. It is Marianne’s focus on change and self-empowerment of CJT students that has been the catalyst for the evolution these students have been able to make.Michael J. Ashe Jr., Longmeadow, MA Sheriff Ashe is in his fortieth year of service as Sheriff of Hampden County, Massachusetts and plans to retire in 2016. As Sheriff, he is Chief Administrator of the Hampden County Correctional Center, which supervises approximately 1,450 offenders in five levels of security – medium, minimum, pre-release, day reporting, and after-incarceration support. Sheriff Ashe has established a model continuum of supported community re-entry for offenders, including some 300 community partnerships with public, non-profit and private organizations. He believes that it “takes a village” to successfully re-enter an offender as a productive, law-abiding citizen. As part of this re-entry effort, Sheriff Ashe has utilized community partnerships to help offenders find 523 jobs last year, and over 10,000 jobs in the past 20 years, having an impact on recidivism and public safety.Daryl Atkinson, Garner, NC Daryl is an attorney at the Southern Coalition for Social Justice (SCSJ) where he focuses on criminal justice reform issues, particularly removing the legal barriers triggered by contact with the criminal justice system. In 1996, Daryl pled guilty to a first-time, non-violent, drug crime and served 40 months in prison. Since his release, Daryl has become a zealous advocate for second chances for formerly incarcerated people. Daryl is a founding member of the North Carolina Second Chance Alliance, a statewide coalition of advocacy organizations, service providers, and those directly impacted that came together to achieve the safe and successful reintegration of adults and juveniles returning home from incarceration.Father Gregory Boyle, Los Angeles, CA Father Boyle is the founder and Executive Director of Homeboy Industries, the largest gang intervention, rehabilitation and re-entry program in the United States, now in its 25th year. His dedication to finding a place for all in our society brought him to the Boyle Heights community of East Los Angeles, where he served as pastor of Dolores Mission Church, from 1986 through 1992. It was there that Father Greg started what would become Homeboy Industries, a nonprofit organization that employs and trains more than 300 former gang-members every year in seven social enterprises. Homeboy Industries also provides critical services to the 12,000 people who walk through the doors every year seeking a better life. Father Greg is the author of the NY Times bestselling book, Tattoos on the Heart: The Power of Boundless Compassion. Scott Budnick, Los Angeles, CA Scott serves as Executive Vice President of Todd Phillips’ production company, Green Hat Films. Scott executive produced many successful comedies including the highest grossing rated-R comedies in history, THE HANGOVER series. Outside of film, he is a fierce champion for children in need. Scott is a teacher and on the Advisory Board for InsideOUT Writers. He also serves as a board member of the Los Angeles Conservation Corps, and on the Advisory board for the Loyola Law School, Center for Juvenile Law and Policy. Scott is currently launching a new production company along with growing and developing The Anti-Recidivism Coalition (ARC). Eva Garza Dewaelsche, Detroit, MI Eva serves as President and CEO of SER Metro-Detroit Jobs for Progress, Inc., a workforce development organization which was established 42 years ago in the city of Detroit. She also oversees SER operations in Illinois, Arkansas and Texas. Eva has been employed with SER for over 30 years where she established a nationally accredited, post-secondary technical school in Detroit and Chicago. She later served as Principal of the SER Casa Academy, a charter school in partnership with Casa Maria that helps high risk youth from Detroit.Daryl Legg, Sallisaw, OK Daryl has been employed with the Cherokee Nation since 2006. He started out as a participant in Vocational Rehabilitation, attending college at Northeastern State University, where he earned a degree in Psychology and minor in Social Welfare. After graduation, he worked full-time for the Cherokee Nation to work as a Vocational Rehabilitation counselor. Today, he is the Director of Vocational Programs. Daryl’s passion is helping remove barriers that ex-offenders face. After doing time on three different occasions for non-violent drug charges, Daryl now works diligently assisting Cherokee citizens who have been released from prison. The Cherokee Nation Re-Entry Program is called “Coming Home.”Donna and Frank Masley, Wilmington, DE Donna and Frank are owners of Masley Gloves, a HUBZone Certified, Woman Owned Small Business that designs and manufactures specialty gloves - including gloves for the Military that are 100% Made in U.S.A. and Berry Amendment compliant. Since 2005, the Masleys’ have demonstrated an exemplary record of hiring over 60 individuals that were previously incarcerated and many who are living in the poverty sections of Wilmington, Delaware. Realizing the commitment and energy these individuals bring to the business, the Masleys’ recently purchased a building in a HUBZone of Wilmington Delaware, where glove team members can now walk to a safe and comfortable work environment. The Masleys’ are also engaging the community from which they employ.Tyrone Mullins, San Francisco, CA Tyrone is the co-founder of Green Streets, an integrated waste management business developed and operated by public housing residents and their peers. Tyrone was raised in San Francisco's Western Addition and endured the obstacles that plague many inner city African American men. He experienced trouble at home, in school and on the streets and ended up in prison. Using his trials and tribulations to propel him forward, Tyrone is a certified WRAP and Roots of Success instructor and co-facilitates ManAlive violence prevention trainings. Through the Green Streets peer to peer business model, Tyrone and his co-workers break down barriers to mental health and substance abuse treatment. Pamela Paulk, Baltimore, MD Pamela is the Senior Vice President for Human Resources for Johns Hopkins Medicine. Johns Hopkins Medicine employs approximately 41,000 people and is home to The Johns Hopkins Hospital, the number one hospital in the nation 22 years in a row. Paulk has been a long-term advocate for employing candidates who have barriers to employment, especially those with criminal backgrounds. Employing ex-offenders is now a regular part of the normal employment process. She has received numerous awards for her community work including Maryland’s Top 100 Women, the American Red Cross Chesapeake Chapter Good Samaritan Award, the National Kidney Foundation of Maryland Santé Kidney Champion, and Community Mediation’s Peacemaker of the Year.DeRionne Pollard, Clarksburg, MD DeRionne serves as president of Montgomery College, one of largest undergraduate institutions in the state of Maryland, which educates nearly 60,000 credit and noncredit students annually at its three campuses. She is passionate about seeking innovative ways to increase student access and success, such as a new partnership with Montgomery County Public Schools and the Universities of Shady Grove to create Achieving Collegiate Excellence and Success (ACES), a support program designed to help first generation and minority students seamlessly transition from high school to college completion by embedding college coaches from Montgomery College in the high schools. She has championed access to effective education, training, and counseling programs to the adult incarcerated population and to at-risk juveniles. Stanley Richards, Bronx, NY Stanley Richards serves the Senior Vice President at The Fortune Society, a non-profit organization based in New York City, NY with a mission to support successful reentry from prison and promote alternatives to incarceration. He is a formerly incarcerated man of color with over 23 years of experience in the criminal justice field. In 1991, he was hired as a counselor by The Fortune Society. He steadily worked his way up, becoming manager of career development and deputy executive director. He developed Fortune's original Drop-In Center in Queens Plaza to help released inmates dropped off from Rikers Island, often in the middle of the night. He currently oversees all of Fortune’s housing programs and has developed a wide range of skills and experience in implementing supportive reentry programs for people being released from prison, particularly in the areas of employment, education, housing, and health services.Jill Rizika, Cleveland, OH Jill serves as Executive Director of Towards Employment, a non-profit agency whose mission is to “empower individuals to achieve and maintain self-sufficiency through employment.” Jill has over twenty-five years of experience working on issues of poverty and opportunity in the US and in developing countries. Since joining Towards Employment in 2003, she helped to strengthen a highly successful program to meet the employment needs of individuals with a criminal background, doubling the number of people placed in jobs on an annual basis.Tracey Syphax, Trenton, NJ Tracey is President and Chief Operating Officer of Phax Group Construction & Design LLC, and a Partner with Phax Group, LLC a real estate development company based in Trenton, NJ. Presently Currently, Syphax is a featured contributor in the 2014 documentaries Elementary Genocide which reveals the school-to-prison pipeline and Incarcerating US, which explores the purpose of prison and the criminal justice system in the U.S. His memoir From the Block to the Boardroom detailing his story of successful re-entry won the 2012 Eric Hoffer Award for Excellence in Independent Publishing.Sam White, Mechanicsville, VA Sam serves as Executive Vice President, Business Development and has been with Point Blank Enterprises, Inc. since 2001. In his current role, he is responsible for all facets of Research & Development and Design & Engineering, while also overseeing new business engagements and technological advancements. He serves on the Executive Leadership team and is responsible for managing technology relationships with governing bodies and key customer accounts. Sam became the President of Point Blank Body Armor, Inc. in June, 2005 and in September 2006 he assumed the position of Head of Global Sales. He has held various positions with Point Blank over the past decade, playing a critical role in the company’s sales, marketing, and research & development initiatives. #40#
05.29.2014	More than $4 million in funding for numerous projects throughout Commonwealth Washington (May 28, 2014) – Senators Edward J. Markey and Elizabeth Warren and Representatives Joseph P. Kennedy, William Keating, Niki Tsongas, Michael Capuano, Richard E. Neal, and John Tierney today applauded the Environmental Protections Agency’s (EPA) announcement of more than $4 million in funding to clean and revitalize brownfields in Massachusetts. The FY14 Brownfields Assessment, Revolving Loan Fund, and Cleanup grants will give communities and businesses a chance to return economic stability to under-served and economically disadvantaged neighborhoods through the assessment and clean-up of abandoned industrial and commercial properties, places where environmental cleanups and new jobs are most needed. “These EPA Brownfields Grants will go a long way towards cleaning up the decades of abuse sustained by Massachusetts land,” said Senator Markey. “Cleaning up brownfield sites is a win-win for Massachusetts, helping to create jobs and spur economic activity while revitalizing underutilized lands.” “Brownfield cleanups revitalize our communities, make our environment healthier and safer for families, and open up new opportunities for economic growth,” said Senator Warren. “These EPA grants will help spur important cleanup efforts across Massachusetts.” “Clean, communal public spaces are critical to our cities as they reinvent and rebuild their economies,” said Rep. Kennedy. “Through the tireless work of TDC, TNC and many community leaders, Taunton has capitalized on the potential of their former industrial sites by cleaning hazardous waste in the ground and offering an environment where businesses can thrive and grow. These EPA Brownfield grants will provide Taunton with the funds necessary to revitalize two abandoned properties, while creating new jobs and ensuring that the community will be involved in the process.” “Brownfield grants are a critical component of the revitalization of our cities and towns,” said Rep. Keating. “Cleaning these two contaminated sites in New Bedford will allow the city to eventually use the property for a more beneficial purpose.” “These federal funds will help communities throughout the state transform blighted tracts of land, improving neighborhoods and reducing environmental hazards,” said Rep. Capuano. “I thank the EPA for its continued commitment to addressing brownfields sites in our cities and towns.” “These grants from the EPA will significantly benefit the environment and economy of western Massachusetts,” said Rep. Neal. “The successful clean up of brownfields sites will create exciting redevelopment opportunities and generate tax revenue for local communities. I have been a strong supporter of this program because I have seen how successful it has been bringing new investment to our cities and towns.” “This share of federal funding will help Lowell, Fitchburg and other Massachusetts communities identify contaminated sites and plan for their eventual clean-up and reuse,” said Rep. Tsongas. “This type of support has helped to turn previously blighted sites into parks, development projects, and has funded other priorities that contribute to the health of our cities.” “This important grant provides the cities of Salem and Peabody the opportunity to leverage federal dollars to create jobs and clean up contaminated sites,” said Rep. Tierney. “I’m pleased the EPA has made this critical investment and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on this effort.” More information on brownfields grants by state: https://cfpub.epa.gov/bf_factsheets/ List of Massachusetts Brownfields grants recipients Chicopee, MA Cleanup Grants $400,000 for hazardous substances EPA has selected the City of Chicopee for two brownfields cleanup grants. Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to clean up the 4.6-acre Redevelopment Parcel #1 of the former Facemate Corporation property at 5 West Main Street. From 1823 through 2003, the property was used by various companies to manufacture and process cotton and synthetic cloth. Contaminants include heavy metals and polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons. Hazardous substances grant funds also will be used to clean up Parcel #147-10 of the former Uniroyal Tire Complex at 154 Grove Street. From 1870 until about 1980, the site was used as a lumber yard, and for manufacturing of adhesives and tires. It was then used for manufacturing, printing, and machine shops. The site encompasses 26.2 acres of former rail right-of-way. Contaminants at the site include heavy metals, polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons, pesticides, and herbicides. Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority, MA Assessment Grants $200,000 for hazardous substances $200,000 for petroleum EPA has selected the Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority for two brownfields assessment grants. Community-wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to inventory and prioritize sites and conduct two Phase I and four Phase II environmental site assessments. Grant funds also will be used to support community outreach activities. Petroleum grant funds will be used to support the same tasks at sites with potential petroleum contamination. Franklin Regional Council of Governments, Franklin County, MA Assessment Grants $200,000 for hazardous substances $100,000 for petroleum EPA has selected the Franklin Regional Council of Governments for two brownfields assessment grants. Communitywide hazardous substances and petroleum grant funds will be used to inventory sites and conduct 12 Phase I and between three and five Phase II environmental site assessments. Grant funds also will be used to support community involvement and education activities and to prepare two or three cleanup plans. Holyoke, MA Cleanup Grant $200,000 for hazardous substances EPA has selected the City of Holyoke for a brownfields cleanup grant. Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to clean up the Automania site located at 689 Main Street. The 0.5-acre site is in an area that has been used for industrial purposes since 1900. An automotive sales and service facility operated at the site from 1940 to 1996. The site has been vacant since then. Environmental concerns at this site include organic compounds, polycyclic aromatic compounds, PCBs, and heavy metals. Grant funds also will be used for community involvement activities, including Spanish translators at public meetings, and cleanup planning.Lowell, MA Assessment Grant $200,000 for hazardous substances EPA has selected the City of Lowell for a brownfields assessment grant. Community-wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to conduct up to 10 Phase I and four Phase II environmental site assessments, with a focus on a largely vacant industrial area known as Ayer’s City Industrial Park. Grant funds also will be used for cleanup planning for at least one site and community outreach activities. New Bedford, MA Cleanup Grants $400,000 for petroleum EPA has selected the City of New Bedford for two brownfields cleanup grants. Petroleum grant funds will be used to clean up Assessor’s Map 105, Lots 208 and 209, on the north side of Manomet Street. The sites were historically associated with the former Cliftex mill property, where textile products were produced and stored. The sites are adjacent to a property containing two abandoned underground storage tanks filled with petroleum products. The sites are contaminated with petroleum. Grant funds also will be used to conduct community outreach activities. Salem, MA Revolving Loan Fund Grant $700,000 for hazardous substances $250,000 for petroleum EPA has selected the City of Salem for a brownfields revolving loan fund grant. The grant will be used to capitalize a revolving loan fund from which the City of Salem will provide loans and subgrants to support cleanup activities for sites contaminated with hazardous substances and petroleum. Grant funds also will be used to market the revolving loan fund, conduct cleanup planning and oversight, and perform community outreach activities. RLF activities will be conducted in the City of Salem and the City of Peabody, Salem’s coalition partner.Somerville, MA Assessment Grants $200,000 for hazardous substances $200,000 for petroleum EPA has selected the City of Somerville for two brownfields assessment grants. Community-wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to inventory brownfield sites, perform five Phase I and five Phase II environmental site assessments, and conduct cleanup planning at three sites. Petroleum grant funds will be used to conduct the same tasks at sites with potential petroleum contamination. Grant funds also will be used to conduct community involvement activities. Springfield, MA Assessment Grants $200,000 for hazardous substances $200,000 for petroleum EPA has selected the City of Springfield for two brownfields assessment grants. Community wide hazardous substances grant funds will be used to perform six Phase I and four Phase II environmental site assessments and develop three cleanup plans. Grant funds also will be used to review and prioritize a brownfields inventory and support community involvement activities. Petroleum grant funds will be used to conduct the same tasks at sites with potential petroleum contamination. Taunton Development/MassDevelopment Corporation, Taunton, MA Cleanup Grants $600,000 for hazardous substances EPA has selected the Taunton Development/MassDevelopment Corporation for three brownfields cleanup grants. Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to clean up Lots 12, B-2, and B-4 of the former Paul A. Dever School at 1380 Bay Street. The property was originally Camp Myles Standish, a U.S. Army installation during World War II, and then became a school, which closed in 1991. The three cleanup sites are contaminated with hazardous building materials, including inorganic contaminants and metals. Grant funds also will be used to support community engagement activities. The Neighborhood Corporation, Taunton, MA Cleanup Grant $200,000 for hazardous substances EPA has selected the Neighborhood Corporation for a brownfields cleanup grant. Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to clean up Lot C-1 at the former NuBrite Chemical Company facility at 10 First Street in Taunton. The NuBrite Chemical Company operated from 1937 to 1992 as a chemical and paint manufacturing facility. In 2007, the 2.7-acre property was sold and divided into five lots. Lot C-1 was the core of the NuBrite manufacturing facility and the most heavily impacted. Contamination at the 1.4-acre lot includes PCBs, metals, and pesticides. Grant funds also will be used to conduct community involvement activities. ###
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON - House Ways & Means Committee Members Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Richard Neal (D-MA) on Wednesday reintroduced bipartisan legislation that would make permanent a tax incentive credited with creating more than 550,000 jobs and incentivizing more than $60 billion in private investment to strengthen economically-distressed communities. The New Markets Tax Credit was established in 2000 to spur private investment in low-income rural communities and urban neighborhoods where access to capital is often extremely limited. The incentive expired at the end of 2013. Under H.R. 4365, the proposed New Markets Tax Credit Extension Act, introduced by Gerlach and Neal, the federal tax credit would be renewed and become permanent. "We have more than a decade of success stories from a variety of businesses in neighborhoods and communities across the country to prove this incentive works and pays for itself," Gerlach said. "We can build on that success by providing greater certainty that this tool will always be available to anyone who wants to build a business, create jobs and reinvigorate communities. Rep. Neal has been a critical ally in building bipartisan support for this legislation, and I look forward to working with him and our colleagues in the House to send this bill to the President's desk." Rep. Neal added: "Since its inception 2000, the New Markets Tax Credit has generated $60 billion in capital for projects in low income communities resulting and created over 550,000 jobs in traditionally overlooked communities- like Springfield, Holyoke and Pittsfield- in order to spur economic development, private investment and create jobs. "This is a federal program that works—spurring investment that grows local economies and generates jobs in the most distressed communities across the nation. However, barring Congressional action, this key initiative will end. That is why I am proud to introduce legislation with Rep. Gerlach to make the New Markets Tax Credit permanent, and ensure another decade of critical investments reaches Western Massachusetts." This tax credit program offers those willing to invest in economically-distressed communities a seven-year, 39-percent federal tax credit. With the capital raised from the tax credit, community development entities finance loans and investments in business and economic development projects that otherwise might not get off the ground. The New Market Tax Credit Coalition reported the incentive led to the creation of 550,000 jobs and spurred $60 billion of investment in businesses located in communities with high poverty and high unemployment since 2000. “Last month, over 1,400 businesses, investors, nonprofit organizations and community leaders sent a letter to the Ways and Means Committee, outlining the need to extend the NMTC, which so many hard-hit, rural communities and urban neighborhoods across the nation depend on to finance businesses, create jobs and jump start their local economies,” said Bob Rapoza, spokesperson for the New Markets Tax Credit Coalition. “The NMTC Coalition and its members applaud Representatives Gerlach and Neal for their leadership in permanently securing this important economic tool.” According to a Government Accountability Office report, 88 percent of new market tax credit investors surveyed would not have made the investment in the low-income community without the credit. And a Treasury Department analysis found that every $1 of foregone tax revenues under the NMTC program leverages about $12 of private investment in distressed communities on a cost basis.
03.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, and Congressman Richard Neal announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Holyoke Fire Department a $1,069,048 grant through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. “This major SAFER grant is great news for Holyoke, and I applaud Chief Pond and Mayor Morse for their efforts to get this significant funding,” said Senator Warren. “Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect our families, and this SAFER grant recognizes their outstanding service and commitment. It will help ensure that the Holyoke fire department has the resources it needs to keep our community safe.” “Thanks to this critical SAFER grant the Holyoke Fire Department will have the resources it needs to keep the community safe and secure," said Senator Markey. "Supporting our fire departments who are on the front lines of protecting our neighborhoods is a priority, and I applaud Mayor Morse and Chief Pond and local officials for their leadership securing this vital funding,” "I am very pleased that the Holyoke Fire Department has received this sizable grant from FEMA. This federal assistance will provide these courageous first responders with the resources they need to keep their community safe from fire hazards," said Congressman Neal. The Holyoke Fire Department received a $668,000 grant from the program last April. The SAFER grant program is administered by FEMA to ensure that local fire departments and volunteer fire organizations have sufficient numbers of trained firefighters in their communities.
03.03.2014	(SPRINGFIELD, MA) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Bishop Timothy McDonnell, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and FEMA Acting Regional Administrator Paul F. Ford today announced a funding agreement on the recovery in Springfield that includes replacement of Cathedral High School and St. Michael's Academy on Surrey Road. These facilities were severely damaged during the 2011 tornado. As a result of an innovative federal pilot program, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Diocese of Springfield and FEMA have agreed to fixed estimates of federal funds to supplement the Diocese's nearly $60 million insurance proceeds received last year. The federal grants are made under the provisions of the Sandy Recovery Improvement Act (SRIA) Alternative Procedures. The pilot program was authorized by Congress through an innovative change to the Stafford Act aimed at improving the speed and effectiveness of recovery while reducing administrative costs. The final fixed estimate for the two projects total $29,428,184 of which FEMA will provide 75% of the funding, with the balance coming from the Diocese. The funding, which comes with flexibility of use, will assist with the demolition of existing buildings, abatement of hazardous material, site preparation and replacement of the damaged facilities. In addition, FEMA will provide funding through a series of smaller grants totaling approximately $ 9 million to reimburse the Diocese for a range of assistance including contents and equipment, emergency site safety, security work and temporary facilities that the schools will need until the new facilities are completed. FEMA will also provide 75% of this grant, with the Diocese responsible for the balance. This tailored recovery package is a unique collaboration of federal, state and Diocese stakeholders over the last five months since the Diocese insurance claim was settled. "As I have said before, in crisis there is opportunity. When the tornado damaged Cathedral High School and St. Michael's Academy more than two years ago, I pledged to seek as much federal assistance necessary to rebuild these iconic schools. With today's announcement, I believe we kept our word delivered on that promise. The history of Springfield and Cathedral are intertwined, and it is hard to imagine one without the other. The $38 million in FEMA assistance means that Cathedral will be here for generations to come,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "I am grateful to Congressman Neal for the support and encouragement he provided during this long process and for his own patience in seeing it through. I am grateful to all those who worked on behalf of the diocese to achieve this federal recovery assistance, meeting day in and day out so that we might reach a satisfactory conclusion. I'm grateful to all those who were patient with us and never lost hope. I am grateful to all who persisted with us, to all who helped in the negotiations, to the FEMA staff, and particularly to the St. Michael's Academy and Cathedral High School families who stood with us throughout and had the patience to wait, " said Bishop Timothy McDonnell. "Cathedral has had a storied history here in the City of Springfield and more specifically here in East Forest Park. My administration has worked closely with Congressman Richard E. Neal and Bishop Timothy McDonnell to make sure that the Cathedral tradition continues. With this significant award from FEMA, and the recently launched endowment fund, Cathedral is on the way back. Thank you to Congressman Neal and Bishop McDonnell for their work on this, and to the students, faculty, and residents of East Forest Park, thank you for your patience and resiliency, " said Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno. "FEMA Administrator Craig W. Fugate has provided me with a clear message. Assisting our local communities in getting our schools operational after a disaster is an important FEMA mission and it is vital to the robust recovery of a community. I am so impressed with the collaborative effort with our federal, state and local partners and I am particularly pleased that we were able to establish temporary school locations as we worked on this complicated, long-term recovery plan which will provide state-of-the art educational facilities for the region," said Paul F. Ford, Acting Regional Administrator for FEMA Region 1.
02.04.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC / January 27, 2014): Congressman Richard E. Neal, Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Select Revenue Subcommittee, last week introduced legislation to jumpstart the sluggish economy, finance critical infrastructure investments, fight income inequality and create jobs. The Invest in US Act, extends and reauthorizes key bond measures beneficial for our states and municipalities, extends several critical tax credit initiatives, sets up an infrastructure bank, increases the minimum wage and provides small businesses with tax relief. "Right now the U.S. economy is stuck in a rut, the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high and the growing income inequality in America threatens to derail our economy altogether," Neal said. "In December 2013, we saw the economy only add 74,000 jobs, our lowest since 2011. According to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, in 2013 the economy averaged adding 183,000 jobs a month. At this current rate, the Federal Reserve says the unemployment rate will remain above 6.5 percent until 2015. This is simply unacceptable, and America can do better, and we must. The recession has wiped out 8 million jobs, and it is imperative that we get them back. That is why I introduced the Invest in US Act. This legislation will go a long way in creating an environment where our economy can take off by making the strategic investment needed to spur growth. Furthermore, the legislation takes full aim at the growing income inequality by increasing the minimum wage, while also providing tax relief for businesses that hire new employees and buy new equipment." Below please find a summary of the legislation. The Invest in US Act at a glance:Tax Provisions New Markets Tax Credit –Extends and expands the New Markets Tax Credit program. The New Markets Tax Credit program is made permanent, with an allocation amount of $5 billion annually. By permanently extending the NMTC, the legislation ensures that communities will continue to receive investments they need to renew, rebuild and refurbish neighborhoods for generations to come. Build America Bonds (BABs) – Makes the BABs program permanent, starting with a 32 percent subsidy rate in 2013, and phasing down to a 28 percent subsidy rate in 2017 and thereafter. BABs unleash job creation, economic growth and spur private-sector investments in infrastructure. From the inception of the program in April 2009 to when it expired at the end of 2010, there were 2,275 separate BABs issues, which supported more than $181 billion of financing for new public capital infrastructure projects, such as schools, bridges and hospitals. Research and Development Tax Credit. Makes permanent and expands the R&D Tax Credit. The legislation also increases the the rate of the Alternative Simplified Credit (ASC) from 14 to 17 percent. AMT repeal on Private Activity Bonds – Eliminates the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) on private activity bonds (PABs). PABs are a form of municipal bonds that are used by a variety of public and non-profit entities such as airports, seaports and student loan issuers. The AMT penalty attached to these bonds results in higher interest rates which correlate to higher infrastructure project costs and higher student loan rate burdens. Facility Water & Sewer Bonds – Exempts water and sewer projects from the private activity bond (PAB) cap. Currently, the tax code limits the amount of tax-exempt private activity bond debt that can be issued annually in a state. The legislation excludes the PABs issued by water and sewage facilities from the state volume cap. Removing the volume cap makes additional private investment capital available for these types of infrastructure facilities. Work Opportunity Tax Credit. - Makes the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) permanent. The tax credit expired at the end of 2013. The WOTC provides a federal tax credit up to $9,600 for businesses that hire targeted individuals. Since 1996, the WOTC has expired numerous times. Making the credit permanent will end the uncertainty surrounding the credit for employers and potential hires. Jobs Training Tax Credit. The legislation incorporates Senator Menendez's common sense proposal that links community colleges with local businesses to train employees. Like Senator Menendez's proposal, this bill provides $1 billion in funding for a competitive tax-credit initiative that encourages colleges and businesses to form job-training partnerships. The proposal also would provide a community college tuition tax credit of up to $4,000 to any U.S. based business that trains a long-term unemployed person for an open job that requires a certain type of certificate or other training credential. Extends Increased Business Expensing. This provision permanently extends the 2013 section 179 expensing and investment limitations of $500,000 and $2 million. This provision is effective for qualifying property placed in service after December 31, 2013. Permanent of the 15-Year Depreciation Schedule. Makes permanent the 15-year depreciation schedule for leasehold improvements, restaurant improvements and new construction, and retail improvements. Currently this is a temporary provision that must be extended annually. By making this provision permanent we are providing businesses with the certainty they need to undertake capital expenditures, which fuel economic activity and create jobs. Other Provisions Infrastructure Bank. In 2013, the American Society of Civil Engineers gave the United State's infrastructure a grade of D+ and estimated that the US will need to invest an additional $1.6 trillion to fix our infrastructure. The Invest in US Act creates the American Infrastructure Financing Authority (AIFA), which is an independent, wholly-owned government infrastructure bank, to assist in funding some of the critical infrastructure needs. Under the proposal, Department of Treasury will make available $10 billion in seed money to encourage private investment in public works projects. It is estimated that this self- sustaining entity could be capable of leveraging as much as $625 billion in private investment by issuing direct loans, loan guarantees, bonds and debt securities. To keep both the costs and risks low, the AIFA is also barred from financing more than 50 percent of any one project. Increase in Minimum Wage. The legislation increases the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour from the current $7.25. This increase is phased in over four years and in three increments of 95 cents. Thereafter, the minimum wage will increase as the cost of living increases.
01.24.2014	United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, and Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Dalton Fire Department a $225,642 grant through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. “Our firefighters are out on the front lines protecting our communities,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said. “This SAFER grant recognizes the critical work firefighters do day in and day out, and will help make sure the Dalton fire department has the resources it needs to continue keeping our families safe.” “We need to support our first responders in the same way they support us – with action and commitment,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “This SAFER grant will ensure the Dalton Fire Department has the resources it needs to keep the public safe and secure.” "The professionalism and resolve of our first responders in Berkshire County is well known. Each day they put their lives at risk protecting their communities. This important grant for the Dalton Fire Department will allow them to be appropriately staffed and trained so they can continue to keep their town safe," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. The SAFER grant program is administered by FEMA to help ensure local fire departments have sufficient numbers of trained firefighters on duty.
10.02.2013	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on the federal government shutdown and the Affordable Care Act: "I am very disappointed that Tea Party intransigence has caused the first federal government shutdown in 17 years. The American people expect and deserve more from their elected representatives. More than 800,000 federal workers have already been furloughed without pay, and our economy will now lose $1 billion a day due to this unnecessary and unwise political stunt. I share the view of the vast majority of people in this country who believe this is no way to govern. Passing a budget and paying our bills should not be partisan or controversial. The full faith and credit of the United States cannot be put in jeopardy because of rigid ideology. The gamesmanship and brinkmanship has to stop, and the House of Representatives must to be allowed to approve a short term spending plan in a bipartisan manner. I strongly oppose any effort to defund, delay or repeal the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. This law passed both houses of Congress in 2010, was the central issue of President Obama's successful re-election campaign in 2012, and ruled constitutional by the Supreme Court the same year. It will provide affordable and quality health care for more than 60 million people. Children can stay on their parent's health insurance until they are 26 years old. People with pre-existing medical conditions cannot be denied coverage. And you can't get kicked out if you get sick. In fact, millions of Americans are already beginning to enroll in the health insurance exchanges. Using the Affordable Care Act, which is the law of the land, as a tool to shut down the federal government was irresponsible and wrong. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reach a common sense solution to this self created crisis." #30#
07.17.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL RECEIVES FRIEND OF THE NATIONAL PARKS AWARDVoting Record on Park Issue Earns Prestigious Honor (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal was honored today with the "Friend of the National Parks Award" from the nonpartisan National Park Conservation Association (NPCA) for his contribution to protecting and enhancing America's national parks. The award was presented to 157 Members of Congress for their support of legislation that upheld the standards and integrity of the National Park System. Neal has been a consistent recipient of this prestigious honor for more than a decade. "I have always been a champion of the 400 National Parks here in the United States. Millions of Americans visit these natural and historic treasures each year. We have an obligation to preserve and protect them for future generations to enjoy. I am proud to receive this prestigious honor again from the National Park Conservation Association," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. NPCA'S "Friend of the National Park Award" was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members' votes on significant park issues. This year, NPCA compiled votes for seven national park-related bills in the House. To receive the award, representatives had to support a majority of the environmental related initiatives. Recipients of the award received a framed reproduction of an art-deco color poster of Sequoia National Park in the style of those produced in the 1930's for the National Park Service by the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration. "We are grateful that our Members of Congress have demonstrated a solid commitment to preserving America's national parks," said NPCA Acting President Theresa Pierno. "As the National Park Service approaches its centennial in 2016, support for our friends in Congress is essential to ensure places like Yellowstone, Gettysburg, and the Everglades are preserved and protected for our children and grandchildren to enjoy," Since 1919, the nonpartisan National Park Conservation Association has been the leading voice of the American people in protecting and enhancing our National Park System. NPCA, its 800,000 members and supporters, and many partners work together to protect the park system and preserve our natural, historical, and cultural heritage for our children and grandchildren. For more information, visit: www.npca.org. #30#
07.15.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL ANNOUNCES $288,089 IN FEDERAL GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS IN WESTERN MASSACHUSETTSSpringfield, Holyoke and Great Barrington to benefit (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded $288,089 in outreach and enrollment grants to four community health centers in western Massachusetts. The federal assistance will help enroll uninsured Americans in new health coverage option s made available by the Affordable Care Act. The Caring Health Center in Springfield will receive $76,721; the City of Springfield, $60,705; the Holyoke Health Center, $79,266; and the Community Health Programs in Great Barrington, $71,397. Massachusetts has 35 health centers with 293 sites that served 638,623 patients last year. "You cannot overstate the importance of community health centers in western Massachusetts. For many individuals in our region, these centers are a dependable and accessible source of their primary care. With the passage of the Affordable Care Act, which ensures an additional 32 million Americans, local health centers will become even more critical. In addition to providing quality health care, these centers are also engines of economic activity and job creators. Today's announcement will help more patients get the local care they need," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. With these awards, consumers will get help understanding their coverage options through the new Health Insurance marketplace, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance program; determine their eligibility and what financial help they can get; and enroll in new affordable health coverage options. Health centers have a long history of providing eligibility assistance to patients along with delivering high-quality, primary health care in communities across the nation Today, health centers serve more than 21 million patients annually. These grants, issued by HHS's Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), compliment and align with other federal efforts, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services-funded navigator program. #30#
07.12.2013	Congressman Richard Neal and Superintendent Paul Barabani Announce $305,000 Federal Grant for Improved Fire System at the Holyoke Soldiers' Home (HOLYOKE) - Congressman Richard E. Neal will join Superintendent of the Holyoke Soldiers' Home Paul Barabani to officially announce a $305,000 federal assistance grant. The grant will be used toward the cost of fire alarm and detection system improvements at the Soldiers' Home. The upgraded system will be state-of-the-art and combines fire protection and information management so that every floor, and every room in the Holyoke facility is secure. "This was truly a state and VA partnership in working together on behalf of our Veterans and their patient safety in identifying the best system, the best technology, and the best knowledge to deliver the highest quality fire alarm system," said Barabani. "I am proud to stand with the Superintendent marking this critical funding that will further ensure the safety of our proud veterans right here in Holyoke," said Neal. The overall design and installation of the new system was carried out through a partnership with the Holyoke Fire Department. ###
07.01.2013	Media Advisory Contact: Kenn W. Delude, President/CEO (413) 593?6421 k.delude@westmassdevelopment.com EPA-Ludlow Mills Brownfield Grants To Be Announced Monday, July 1 Ludlow—Representatives of Westmass Development, the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Town of Ludlow and state officials will join Congressman Richard Neal, State Senator Gale Candaras and State Representative Thomas Petrolati at an event announcing the award of EPA Brownfield Grants Monday, July 1, 2013 at 11 a.m. at the Ludlow Mills complex, 100 State Street.The EPA will award the Westmass Area Development Corporation two brownfield environmental remediation grants totaling $500,000 to remediate two structures, the so-called Storehouse Buildings at the Ludlow Mills complex. The grants will be used for abatement of asbestos materials. According to Kenn Delude, President and CEO of Westmass, the developer of the 170-acre Ludlow Mills project, “This announcement will signify yet another positive step forward in the redevelopment of Ludlow Mills. Addressing the environmental issues on a site of this size is a significant challenge that requires the involvement and support of federal, state and local agencies and departments. This EPA grant is vital and supplements the remediation investment that the state Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs has already made here at the Ludlow Mills. These grant funds are being used by Westmass to prepare the site for future mixed use development.”In a statement made by Congressman Richard E. Neal, “The restoration of the Ludlow Mills complex is one of the most exciting economic development projects in western Massachusetts. Not only does it preserve one of the most historic structures in the region, it will create hundreds of construction jobs and promote additional private investment. Today’s federal grant will help expedite the environmental clean-up needed to keep this important project on schedule. I believe the successful renovation of this iconic facility will be a game changer for the Town of Ludlow,” said Neal.Construction is also well underway on the new HealthSouth rehabilitation hospital that will occupy about 10 acres of the former mill property. Redevelopment of the Ludlow Mills complex over the next fifteen years could create and retain over 2,000 jobs and stimulate up to $300 million in private investment. The Ludlow Mills project is focused on commercial, industrial and a limited amount of residential development, Delude said. Westmass is a founding affiliate of the EDC of Western Massachusetts and has successfully developed large-scale projects in the region for over 50 years. ­­­-30­­-
06.22.2013	Congressman Richard Neal and Chief Paul Morrissette Announce $45,700 Federal Grant for East Longmeadow Fire DepartmentLocal Officials to Join Neal and Morrissette for Award Presentation (East Longmeadow) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chief Paul Morrissette and local officials will officially announce a $45,700 federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for the East Longmeadow Fire Department.The East Longmeadow Fire Department will use the grant award to purchase and install a new Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) bottle compressor. SCBAs are used by firefighters to enter areas that contain atmospheres that are dangerous for firefighters. The new compressor will replace an existing 22 year old model that has be out of service due to extremely high repair costs. “The department, as well as the Town of East Longmeadow, is honored to receive this award at a time when fiscal decisions are often divided between different agencies and departments throughout towns, states, and the nation,” said Morrissette.“For over a decade, AFG has augmented public safety services nationwide,” said Neal. “I am proud to stand with the Chief and the Town of East Longmeadow marking this crucial funding that will benefit the health and safety of our communities.”The US Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency oversee the AFG program. AFG is intended to enhance a fire department's ability to protect the health and safety of the public as well as the firefighters. ###
06.17.2013	United States Air Force MEDIA RELEASEPublic Affairs Office, 439th Airlift Wing, Westover Air Reserve Base, MA 01022-1825, (413) 557-2020 e-mail: 439aw.pa@westover.af.mil On the web: www.westover.afrc.af.mil June 17, 2013 Release Number: 13-6 NEW $24M HYDRANT FUELING SYSTEM PROJECT AWARDED AT WESTOVER WESTOVER AIR RESERVE BASE, Mass. - Gassing up planes at Westover is about to get a big improvement following the announcement of an award for $24.5 million in Military Construction project funding for a new fuel hydrant system funded by the Defense Logistics Agency. "This is a very significant investment into the infrastructure and long term viability of the base in Chicopee," said Congressman Richard Neal, who will participate in the ceremony. "The $24 million upgrade will help Westover perform its mission much more effectively. As one of the largest employers in the region, this contract will bring construction jobs and economic growth to western Massachusetts. It also reinforces Westover's importance as a national strategic military asset. I greatly appreciate today's timely briefing by Colonel Vautrain and his staff," he said. The contract was awarded by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New England District. The Corps of Engineers will manage and supervise the project which will be accomplished by Structural Associates, Inc. of East Syracuse, New York. "We've been working with aging fueling infrastructure, part of which has been here since the 1950s, when the Strategic Air Command B-52s were flying out of Westover," said Col. Steven Vautrain, 439th Airlift Wing Commander. A C-5 can hold 323,000 pounds or about 54,000 gallons of fuel. "This new system is going to greatly increase our ability to deliver large amounts of fuel to aircraft as quickly and safely as possible, which is absolutely essential to the mission. The new system will be similar to ones used at major airports," he said.Brett Bailey, the chief of design for the Base Civil Engineering department, said "the project will construct a pressurized hydrant fuel system with 14 hydrant outlets and two 210,000 gallon above- ground fuel storage tanks." He said the work will include modifying the existing pumphouse, and constructing new truck fillstands, among other improvements. "Upgrading this system will be a huge benefit to the 439th Airlift Wing in continuing to meet its mission," he said.The project will be completed in stages and is expected to take two years. Media is invited to the brief announcement ceremony slated for Monday, June 24 at 10 a.m. -30-
06.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - June 6, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-5601 CONGRESSMAN NEAL TO HOST REGIONAL ECONOMIC FORUMWill be joined by CEO's of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and Mass Mutual Life Insurance Company (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Roger Crandall, the Chief Executive Officer of Mass Mutual Life Insurance Company, and Eric Rosengren, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston will host a regional economic forum tomorrow morning in Springfield for local elected officials, community leaders and business executives. More than 70 members from the public and private sector from all four counties in western Massachusetts are expected to attend this unique briefing. The diverse group of business, academic and political leaders participating in the event will get an in depth and complete economic forecast for the entire region from Neal, Crandall and Rosengren. A robust discussion of the economic future of western Massachusetts is anticipated. Roger W. Crandall is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mass Mutual Life Insurance Company (Mass Mutual). Mr. Crandall first joined Mass mutual in 1988, and spent the first 12 years of his career in the company's Investment Management Department. In 2000, he joined Babson Capital Management LLC, a Mass Mutual subsidiary. In 2005, he was appointed Chairman of Babson Capital and Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of Mass Mutual. In 2010, he was named President and Chief Operating Officer. Crandall serves on the Board of Directors of the American Council of Life Insureres and the Wharton Board of leadership Advisors. He also serves on the CEO Roundtable, the Massachusetts Competitive Partnership and the Massachusetts Governor's Council on Economic Advisors. Crandall is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) and a graduate of the University of Vermont with a bachelor's degree in Economics. He earned his MBA with honors from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. Eric Rosengren has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston since July 2007 and is currently a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee. Previously he headed the Bank's supervision, regulation, and credit group, and was active in domestic and international regulatory policy. Rosengren joined the Bank in 1985 as an economist in the research department, with a B.A. from Colby College and an M.S. and PhD from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He has written extensively on macroeconomics, international banking, bank supervision, and risk management; including articles in leading economics and finance journals. Much of his recent research has focused on how problems in the private sector impact the real economy. Rosenberg is a director of the United Way, a trustee of Colby College, and a member of advisory boards at Colby College and the University of Wisconsin. Kevin Kennedy, the City of Springfield's Economic Director, will also give welcoming remarks and will serve as the MC for the event.
05.29.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - May 29, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-5601 NEAL, SARNO, AND SMITH-BOVE TO HIGHLIGHT MAJOR ROAD IMPROVEMENTS TO THE STATE STREET CORRIDOR $2million in federal and state assistance will upgrade the historic Armory-Quadrangle neighborhood (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, and Springfield Museums President Holly Smith-Bove will hold a press conference tomorrow to highlight the ongoing street renovations along the State Street Corridor. Construction has already begun on the $2 million road improvement project that will significantly upgrade Spring, Elliot and Edwards Streets in the historic Armory-Quadrangle neighborhood. In addition to newly paved streets, the comprehensive redevelopment plan will include improved landscaping, specialty lighting, new sidewalks and urban forestry. The redevelopment of the 3.2 mile State Street Corridor has enhanced and preserved this vibrant commercial and educational district. More than $ 200 million in public and private funds have been invested in the historic Armory-Quadrangle neighborhood creating hundreds of jobs in the process. The $70 million United States Courthouse opened in 2008, and the $110 million state data center, which preserves the facade of Technical High School, will open this summer. An additional $20 million in refurbishments have been made to the infrastructure of State Street since the project began. "The rebirth of State Street continues. For nearly a decade, the revitalization of that historic corridor has been one of the signature economic development projects in the City of Springfield. With the construction of the federal courthouse and the new state data center, more than $200 million dollars has been invested in the Armory-Quadrangle neighborhood. From St. Michael's Cemetery to the banks of the Connecticut River, the most important boulevard in Springfield has been completely transformed. And with the completion of the road improvements around the Quadrangle, this important downtown location will be restored to its original splendor," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "This is a great moment for the Armory-Quadrangle Neighborhood. With the help and partnership of Congressman Richard E. Neal we have witnesses a transformation to one of the jewels that Springfield has to offer. When you look around this area and see the State Street reconstruction, the new federal courthouse, and new roads and sidewalks with the spin off projects of the State Street Data Center and the Lyman and Merrie Wood Museum of Springfield History; you can see what can be done when you have public and private leadership in place that respects and values our history as an important part of our future," said Springfield Mayor Domenic J. Sarno. "The Springfield Museums are thrilled and honored to be a part of such a vibrant transformation of our neighborhood. It lends a huge boost to our efforts to bring national and international tourism dollars to the city. These visitors will be treated to a beautiful campus environment thanks to this project and the vision and leadership of Congressman Neal," said Holly Smith-Bove', President of the Springfield Museums. Kevin E. Kennedy, Springfield's Chief Development Officer, will serve as the Master of Ceremonies at tomorrow's event #30#
05.14.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - May 14, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-5601 CONGRESSMAN NEAL SELECTS ART COMPETITION WINNER FROM WILBRAHAM & MONSON ACADEMY (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that Seon Young "Sadie" Park, a Junior at Wilbraham & Monson Academy, has been selected as the 2013 Winner of the Congressional Art Competition representing western and central Massachusetts. Her entry, "The Learned Virtuoso," was selected over 52 other entries from students in the 1st Congressional District. The artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year. She was congratulated for her achievement by Neal in his Springfield office this week. Each spring, the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. Participation in the contest is at the discretion of each Member of Congress. Students submit entries to their representatives' office, and panels of district judges select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in Washington D.C. #30#
05.12.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - May 12, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-8410 CONGRESSMAN NEAL TO HOST VETERANS ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION WITH LOCAL AND STATE VETERANS SERVICES OFFICERS Event will be held at the Holyoke Soldiers Home (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal will hold a roundtable discussion tomorrow on service connected disability claims, and other important issues and concerns to our nation's veterans. Joining him will be Coleman Nee, Massachusetts Veterans Affairs Secretary; Bradley G. Meyes, director of the Boston Regional Office, Veterans Benefits Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs; and Paul Barabani, Holyoke Soldiers' Home Superintendent. The event with the state veterans' services officers will be held at the Holyoke Soldiers Home. "This important conversation will help our local veterans get the information and assistance they need to lead productive lives," said Congressman Neal. Based upon a need for a centralized location in western Massachusetts for Veterans to receive assistance, the Holyoke Soldiers Home opened a Veterans Assistance Center earlier this year. The center provides veterans and their families with information and assistance on eligibility and application for state and federal benefits, disability services, community referrals, and interaction with veterans' service agents. Staffed five days a week by area chapters of the Disabled American Veterans and by the Bilingual Veterans Outreach Center in Springfield, the center has become a place for veterans to ask questions and to receive help with disability claims and with accessing the Veterans Benefits Administration system. "The Soldiers Home has become the state's hub for veterans programs and services in western Massachusetts," said Paul Barabani, the Soldiers Home Superintendent. "Veterans and their family members deserve everyone's best effort in delivering the array of benefits that veterans have earned, and we are pleased to be the location for this important meeting." In addition, the Holyoke Soldiers Home also has an office for a SAVE Team. SAVE, or Statewide Advocacy for Veterans Empowerment, is a collaboration with the Department of Public Health and their suicide prevention division. SAVE offers peer-to-peer suicide intervention and prevention support for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan who may be at greater risk for suicide and need assistance reintegrating after deployments. The fundamental principle of the SAVE program is to advocate for veterans who are not able to obtain the benefits they have earned due to institutional or personal barriers. The program's primary mission is prevention of suicide and mental health distress through early identification of issues facing veterans when they return from service and proactively providing them with access to benefits and services that may address these issues and result in positive transitions back to civilian life. "Massachusetts leads the nation in providing services and benefits to veterans and their families because of our strong commitment to working with all available federal, state and municipal resources," said Secretary of Veterans Services Coleman Nee. "Thanks to Congressman Neal for for putting together this forum so we can have an open dialogue with all partners including: federal and state elected officials, the Veterans Administration and our local veterans' agents, to ensure we are collectively working together to provide the finest services possible to our veterans. Veterans and their families deserve nothing less." MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013 10:30AM CONGRESSMAN NEAL to host Roundtable Discussion on Veterans Issues and Concerns Holyoke Soldiers Home Canteen 110 Cherry Street Holyoke, MA (413) 532-9475 Open Press #30#
04.29.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL, PITTSFIELD MAYOR DAN BIANCHI AND FIRE CHIEF ROBERT CZERWINSKI TO ANNOUNCE $132,300 GRANTNeal to Join Local Officials for Federal Grant Announcement(PITTSFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join Mayor Dan Bianchi, Fire Chief Robert Czerwinski, local officials and emergency personnel to announce a $132,300 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG). "In recent weeks, the bravery and resolve of our first responders has been on display worldwide," said Neal. "Supplying our fire fighters with state-of-the-art equipment and training is paramount so they can protect us -and themselves- during the most vulnerable times." The awarding of this AFG funding will allow the City of Pittsfield Fire Department to fully upgrade all of its self-contained breathing apparatus to the newest and highest level of protection and technology available. "These new air-packs will allow our personnel to operate safely and comfortably in immediately dangerous-to-life and health environments such as structure fires," said Czerwinski. "But more importantly, as recent events in the Commonwealth have shown, terrorism remains a challenge to all first responders and this new equipment will help provide an added level of respiratory protection safety to our firefighters responding to those challenges. Originally designed for firefighting, these new respirators will also provide a exceptional level of protection in Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Etiological (CBRNE) environments."" The City of Pittsfield is grateful for receiving these FEMA grant funds," said Bianchi. "We would never want to put our firefighters in harm’s way. Safety is always first for these valued individuals.According to the Department of Homeland Security, the primary goal of the AFG is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. ###
04.26.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL DEMOCRAT FROM MASSACHUSETTS COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS 2208 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515 www.house.gov/neal FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - April 26, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (2020 225-5601CONGRESSMAN NEAL TO HOST 2013 U.S. MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY DAYWill announce western and central Massachusetts academy appointments (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal will host his annual U.S. Military Service Academy Day for local high school students who are interested in pursuing a nomination to one of our country's outstanding service academies. He will also announce service academy appointments for five students from western and central Massachusetts. U.S. Service Academies represent a cross sectional group of the best young men and women the nation has to offer. There are five federal Service Academies: The United States Military Academy at West Point, NY (USMA), the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD (USNA), the United States Air Force Academy at Air Force Academy, CO (USAFA), the United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT (USCGA), and the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point NY (USMMA). Each year Members of Congress have the privilege of nominating a limited number of young people from their congressional districts to four of the five service academies. Nominations are required for all but the the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, to which appointments are made on the basis of an annual nationwide competition. The honor of attending a service academy comes with an obligation to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. It takes a well-rounded individual who demonstrates leadership, achieves high academic marks, and athletic excellence to be one of the few who can meet the service academies high admission standards and the fierce competition for appointment. Characteristics of chosen applicants are: dedication to the nation, desire to serve others, sense of duty, ability to accept discipline, morality and the appreciation of challenging mission. The application process is different from most standard colleges, and to provide an introduction to the service academies and the nomination and appointment process, I host an annual Academy Day. This popular event helps students and parents determine if a service academy education is something they would like to pursue. It also helps them navigate a very complex process. A complete agenda for Academy Day 2013 is available here.
04.26.2013	REMARKS OF CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SPECIAL ORDER ON BOSTON MARATHON VICTIMS, SURVIVORS AND HEROES FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 MR. SPEAKER, a sad and emotional chapter in our history came to an end in Watertown, Massachusetts, a week ago today when law enforcement officials captured the second marathon bombing suspect and took him into custody. The unthinkable events that brought greater Boston to a standstill are over, and one of the individuals responsible for the death and destruction will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. The bombs that were meant to terrorize a community only brought the good people of Massachusetts, and the United States, closer together. And now we can all begin the process of healing, recovery and renewal.Since April 22nd, the American family has watched the remarkable professionalism and courage of our local, state and federal law enforcement officials. Along with our dedicated fire fighters and first responders, they helped bring a swift end to the violence and mayhem that shut down Boston like no time in recent memory. When the two explosions occurred on Marathon Monday, they were the ones who ran into the smoke to save lives. When severely injured men, women and children needed care, they were the ones who tied the tourniquets and lined up to give blood. When the perpetrators of these cowardly acts put innocent people at risk, they put themselves in the line of fire. The United States of America salutes them for their courage and thanks them for their extraordinary service. MR. SPEAKER, the people of Massachusetts are strong, proud and resilient. We will return to Fenway Park on Patriot's Day, and our cherished Boston Marathon next year will be bigger and better. No senseless acts of terror and evil will stop us from being who we are. From the Berkshires to Boylston Street, those who call the Commonwealth home know how to overcome adversity. But we will never forget those four innocent people who lost their lives far too early. We will always carry a piece of Martin Richard, Krystle Campbell, Lingzi Lu and Officer Sean Collier in our hearts. And we will continue to pray for the more than 200 runners and spectators who were injured in this terrible tragedy. In their name, and in their memory, we will run again. #30#
04.20.2013	"No senseless acts of terror and evil will stop us from being who we are." (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after law enforcement officials captured the second Boston bombing suspect in Watertown on Friday night: "A sad and emotional week came to an end in Watertown last night when law enforcement officials captured the second bombing suspect and took him into custody. The unthinkable events that brought greater Boston to a standstill were over and one of the individuals responsible for the death and destruction will be brought to justice. The bombs that were meant to terrorize a community only brought the people of Massachusetts closer together. And now we can all begin to heal and recover. For the past five days, Americans watched the extraordinary professionalism and courage of our local, state and federal law enforcement officials. Along with our dedicated fire fighters and first responders, they helped bring a swift end to the violence and mayhem that had brought the region to a grinding halt. When the explosions occurred on Monday, they were the ones who ran into the smoke to save lives. When the perpetrators of these cowardly acts put people at risk, they were there in the line of fire. The United States of America salutes them for their bravery and thanks them for their service. The people of Massachusetts are strong, proud and resilient. We will return to Fenway Park on Patriot's Day, and our cherished Boston Marathon next year will be bigger and better. No senseless acts of terror and evil will stop us from being who we are. From the Berkshires to Boylston Street, those who call the Commonwealth home know how to overcome adversity. And we will. But we will never forget those four innocent people who lost their lives this week far too early. And we will continue to pray for the more than 170 runners and spectators who were injured in this terrible tragedy." #30#
04.18.2013	Massachusetts Congressional Delegation Introduces Resolution on Boston Marathon Attacks April 17, 2013WASHINGTON (April 17, 2013) — The Massachusetts Congressional Delegation today introduced a resolution honoring the victims of the bombings at Monday’s Boston Marathon, recognizing the first responders who helped those in need, and committing to provide all necessary resources to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators to justice.The full text of the resolution is below, and a link to a copy of the resolution can be found HERE.RESOLUTIONCondemning the horrific attacks of April 15, 2013, in Boston, Massachusetts, and expressing support, sympathy, and prayers for all persons impacted by this tragedy.Whereas the two bombings that occurred in Boston, Massachusetts, on Patriots’ Day, April 15, 2013, during the running of the 117th Boston Marathon represent a terrible tragedy and horrific act of terrorism against the people of the United States;Whereas the people of the United States mourn for those persons who lost their lives or were wounded in the attacks;Whereas police, firefighters, National Guard personnel, emergency medical personnel, and other first responders acted promptly and heroically in responding to the attacks, thereby helping to prevent additional losses of life;Whereas the full resources of the Federal, State, and local governments are being brought to bear to investigate these attacks and to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators to justice;Whereas the citizens of Massachusetts are a resilient people and will recover from this tragedy; andWhereas the people of the United States will always remember the victims of the previous acts of terrorism that have occurred in the United States and will always stand together as one people:Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the House of Representatives [United States Senate](1) condemns the senseless attacks in Boston, Massachusetts, on Monday, April 15, 2013;(2) offers sympathy and condolences to the victims’ families;(3) sends thoughts and prayers for those persons who are recovering from injuries;(4) honors the heroic efforts of medical personnel who are tirelessly providing care for the victims of this horrific act of violence;(5) admires the courage of first responders and the many citizen heroes who aided the injured and tended to the community;(6) commits to providing all necessary resources to law enforcement officials who are investigating the terrorist attacks;(7) commits to working together as united Americans to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators of the attacks to justice; and(8) recognizes that the city of Boston, the people of Massachusetts, and all Americans will rise up from this tragedy and stand together as patriots.Contact: Rep. Ed Markey: Eben Burnham-Snyder, 202-225-2836 Sen. Elizabeth Warren: Lacey Rose, 202-263-9747 Sen. William “Mo” Cowan: Alec Gerlach, 202-224-4159 Rep. Richard Neal, Billy Tranghese, 202-225-0612 Rep. Jim McGovern: Michael Mershon, 202-225-6101 Rep. John Tierney: Kathryn Prael, 202-226-8613 Rep. Michael Capuano: Jon Lenicheck, 617-621-6208 Rep. Stephen Lynch: Meaghan Maher, 617-428-2007 Rep. Niki Tsongas: Michael Hartigan, 202-225-3411 Rep. Bill Keating: Lauren Amendolara, 202-225-3111 Rep. Joe Kennedy, Emily Browne, 202-225-5931
04.17.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL DEMOCRAT FROM MASSACHUSETTS COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS 2208 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515www.house.gov/nealCONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-8410 NEAL ANNOUNCES $780,000 FEDERAL GRANT FOR HOLYOKE FIRE DEPARTMENT Funds will be used for hiring and safety operations (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today announced that the Holyoke Fire Department will receive $784,165 in federal assistance from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The first grant for hiring was approximately $668,155 and was awarded through the DHS FY 2012 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. An additional $116,010 in funds for operations and safety will come out of the FEMA FY 2012 Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. The grants were awarded through a competitive process. Neal informed Holyoke Fire Chief John Pond of the news in a phone call from Washington, D.C. last night. "What this grant means is there will be more fire fighters and emergency services personnel in the City of Holyoke to keep families in that community safe. Chief Pond and his team do an extraordinary job, and these two federal grants will allow them to perform their duties more effectively. I believe the brave men and women of the Holyoke Fire Department deserve the best resources and equipment to ensure public safety. This assistance will help them accomplish that objective," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "In these difficult economic times, the SAFER grant will ensure public safety by assisting the Fire Department with Staffing and Deployment Capabilities in order to effectively respond to Fires and Emergencies, and the AFG grant will provide much needed updates to our radio communications infrastructure and equipment," said Chief John Pond. "The Holyoke Fire Department truly appreciates Congressman Neal's continued support in obtaining the resources needed to support and enhance the fire protection services for the City of Holyoke.According to DHS, the goal of the SAFER program is to strengthen the nation's ability to respond to fire and fire related hazards and improve our overall level of preparedness. Grants are awarded directly to fire departments across the country to help them increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire fire fighters who were laid off due to the economy. In FY 2012, the DHS will award $320 million to fire department s and volunteer groups to expand the number of firefighters available to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public with respect to fire and all other hazards.The purpose of the AFG is to award grants to fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS) that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first responder personnel. In FY 2012, FEMA's AFG program will award $337.5 million to fire departments and non-affiliated EMS organizations to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. #30#
04.12.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - April 12, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-5601CONGRESSMAN NEAL JOINS WITH GOOGLE FOR WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS SMALL BUSINESS WORKSHOPUrges local businesses to get online (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, will join representatives of web giant Google at a workshop for small businesses in western Massachusetts that will teach them how to create, publish and maintain a website. The event is part of Google's national "Get Your Business Online" campaign to educate small businesses on the benefits of being online. Google has done events in all 50 states, and over 100,000 businesses have gone online through the successful program."In this age of smart phones, iPads and social media, Google has become the virtual yellow pages for millions of people. Going online has replaced the operator and using the phonebook. This innovative program is helping businesses in western Massachusetts to take advantage of the internet, create a website, and grow. I strongly urge our local employers to utilize this exciting opportunity being offered by Google," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The day-long workshop will begin at 9:00AM, Monday, April 15, 2013, at the Springfield Marriott, 2 Boland Way. Google expects between 100-200 local businesses to attend this free throughout the day. Congressman Neal will give welcoming remarks at 10:00AM. The Massachusetts Get Your Business Online campaign is a Google led program dedicated to driving economic growth by providing local businesses the tools and resources to get online and grow by providing free, easy-to-build Intuit website, a free customized domain name and hosting for one year, free tools and resources. While 97% of internet users look online for local products and services, 62% of Massachusetts small businesses have no website. In this internet driven age, one of the best ways to help small businesses and the economy is to help local businesses increase their presence and visibility online.MONDAY, APRIL 15, 201310:00AM CONGRESSMAN NEAL to speak at Google's Massachusetts Get Your Business Online workshop Springfield Marriott 2 Boland Way Springfield, MA (413) 781-7111 Open Press #30#
04.11.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 11, 2013 CONTACT: Courtney Gidner (Crowley) (202) 225-3965 William Tranghese (Neal) (202) 225-5601 Shams Tarek (McCarthy) (516) 739-3008 Emily Browne (Kennedy) (617) 332-3333 Pat Lowry (Ryan) (330) 740-0193 Lauren Amendolara (Keating) (202) 225-3111 Irish-American Members of Congress Express Strong Support for Comprehensive Immigration Reform 50,000 Undocumented Irish in United States Hoping for Comprehensive Reform Washington, D.C. – Representatives Joe Crowley (NY-14), Richard Neal (MA-1), Carolyn McCarthy (NY-4), Joe Kennedy III (MA-4), Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Bill Keating (MA-9), along with former Congressman and Irish immigration advocate Bruce Morrison, joined together yesterday in a press conference to express strong support for comprehensive immigration reform. The members joined the calls of thousands of pro-immigration reform advocates that converged today on Washington, D.C., calling for adoption of comprehensive immigration reform (See photos attached above).Irish immigrants have a long, proud tradition in the U.S., contributing to our society at every level and helping to shape our nation into what it is today. Today’s immigrants have carried on this legacy, but unfortunately many are now without legal status. According to current estimates, there are 50,000 undocumented Irish immigrants in the U.S. “Immigration reform doesn’t affect just one nationality or one ethnic group – it affects us all,” said Rep. Joe Crowley. “Right now there are immigrants from all around the world – including Ireland – here in our country, hoping for the opportunity to come out of the shadows, live and work without fear, and give back to their community. They are business owners, students and families who want nothing more than to continue a long and proud tradition of coming to America and becoming part of the fabric of our society. And, that’s what we are working toward with comprehensive immigration reform.” “I believe Congress can act in a bipartisan manner and can pass comprehensive immigration reform this year. Our current immigration system is simply not working and it needs to be fixed. A legal path to citizenship must be created for these 11 million aspiring Americans, including the 50,000 undocumented Irish. The vast majority of Americans want to see action taken on this important issue now," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Whether it’s work visas, family unification or access to higher education, the Irish along with every immigrant group here today are facing tough obstacles in their quest to become full and productive members of American society. This is a nation of immigrants and we’re all stronger when we treat everyone with dignity and respect, and that’s why we are united in supporting comprehensive immigration reform,” said Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy. “Immigration reform is not just an Irish cause or a Hispanic cause or any one group’s cause – it’s an American cause,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy. “In the weeks and months ahead we will be fighting harder than ever for a country that finds its spirit and strength in diversity.” “Like many nationalities, the Irish have many undocumented immigrants in our midst who are trapped by complex rules from becoming legal. We need a comprehensive bill that provides them with legal status, so that they can continue to contribute to our communities while living within the law. And we need an immigration system for the future that allows immigrants to come legally in sufficient numbers to provide the new energy and new workers that America continues to need,” said former Congressman Bruce Morrison. “It is time to reframe an often emotional debate to one that focuses on the fact that legal immigration brings significant cultural and economic gains to the US. It is important to the Irish-American community – and to the nation at-large. Our faith communities and our businesses are calling for comprehensive reform, and both parties need to commit themselves to get this work done. The time to act is now,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The stories of our country’s Irish immigrants are shared tales of the pursuit for a better life. I was proud to be one of the many Irish-American voices that must be heard as we progress toward comprehensive immigration reform, and I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to further this conversation,” said Congressman Bill Keating. ###
04.10.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL APPLAUDS CONTINUED SIX-DAY MAIL DELIVERY (Springfield) Following today's U.S. Postal Service announcement that Saturday mail delivery will continue, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement: "I applaud the U.S. Postal Service for announcing today it will continue Saturday mail delivery. I always have been a strong advocate for six-day delivery, and over the past several months I heard from many constituents throughout western and central Massachusetts who overwhelmingly agree six-day delivery is a necessity. Just last week when I held a public meeting in the Berkshire County community of Windsor, the number one issue discussed was the importance of maintaining Saturday delivery." ###
04.05.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL TO VISIT MCLANeal to Meet with Students and Tour New Center for Science and Innovation (North Adams) As part of Congressman Richard E. Neal's continued outreach to Berkshire County leaders in education, innovation and job creation, Neal will visit MCLA to meet with students and tour the campus."We are pleased to welcome Congressman Neal to MCLA, and we look forward to his visit. The Congressman is a passionate advocate for higher education," said MCLA President Mary Grant. "Our students are excited by the opportunity to be in the classroom with the Congressman and to talk with him about a range of public policy issues."Neal and Grant will join Professor Bob Bence's model U.N. seminar for conversation, tour the new Center for Science and Innovation site, and meet with students who recently returned from a State Department trip to Haiti."During my regular travels around the Berkshires, one of the major needs of businesses today is an educated workforce," said Neal. "Many businesses are creating more and more jobs, and at times do not have enough qualified people to fill them. Right here in the Berkshires we have a great institution of higher learning, Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, which is educating and training tomorrow's workforce. MCLA provides an accessible education that promotes growth both on campus and off, creating an environment in which students will be able to succeed in today's global economy. " ###
04.05.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL TO ADDRESS WILLIAMSTOWN LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERSNeal to Discuss Current Events and Give Update on Washington (Williamstown) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join dozens of engaged Berkshire County residents to deliver remarks on current events at a Williamstown League of Women Voters speaking series."I applaud the Williamstown League of Women Voters for keeping Berkshire County citizens engaged and informed," said Neal. "I look forward to a lively conversation on a variety of public policy initiatives." The Williamstown League of Women Voters is part of the national League of Women Voters, an organization founded shortly after women got the right to vote. The League of Women Voters is non-partisan, with state and local chapters. The Williamstown chapter began nearly 85 years ago and is the only chapter in Berkshire County. "While the League does not support candidates, we encourage citizen participation in government as informed voters," said Williamstown chapter President Anne Skinner. "We study issues such as environmental protection, social justice and governmental processes with a view to influencing public policy by educating voters and lobbying elected officials such as the Congressman." ###
04.04.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL, GOVERNOR DEVAL L. PATRICK AND LOCAL OFFICIALS LIGHT FIRST SECTION OF NEW MassBroadband 123 FIBER-OPTIC NETWORKOver 1,200 Community Facilities to Receive Broadband Access; State Affirms Commitment to Enhance Connectivity to Underserved Homes & BusinessesOTIS – Thursday, April 4, 2013 - Congressman Richard E. Neal, Governor Deval L. Patrick and the Berkshire state delegation today lit the first section of a new 1,200-mile fiber-optic network that will bring high-speed Internet access to underserved areas of western and central Massachusetts. The event was held at the regional Farmington River Elementary School, one of the facilities to be connected to the MassBroadband 123 network. "I have fought hard to bring broadband technology to western and central Massachusetts for many years," said Neal. "There is simply no reason why every resident, business and school in the region should not have reliable high speed internet access in 2013. More than one million people will benefit from this important broadband expansion project when it is completed. If we are going to remain competitive in a 21st Century information based economy, high speed internet access will be critical." “Broadband is essential for Massachusetts to remain competitive,” said Governor Patrick. “Today is a remarkable milestone because now every corner of the Commonwealth will be connected to the educational and economic opportunities everywhere else in the world.” The MassBroadband 123 network will provide fiber-optic connectivity directly to 1,200 key facilities in more than 120 western and central Massachusetts communities. These Community Anchor Institutions include schools, libraries, municipal buildings and public safety and health care facilities. The section lit up on Thursday runs from Springfield to Sandisfield and includes 51 community institutions. The remaining segments of the MassBroadband 123 network will be powered up in the months ahead. As part of the network’s launch, a Microsoft Skype demonstration connected students at the Farmington River School with students at a Vive Digital center in Bogota, Colombia and the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. The Colombian students participated through Vive Digital, Colombia’s comprehensive broadband initiative, with Governor Patrick and members of his Administration met with during his February 2013 trade mission to Colombia. “By connecting businesses and residents in every part of the state to dependable Internet access, we are investing in the type of infrastructure that will help create economic opportunity for everyone,” said Greg Bialecki, the Secretary of Housing and Economic Development. “High-speed Internet is another asset to Central and Western Massachusetts, along with a well-educated workforce, great quality of life, and easy access to Boston and New York City, that makes these parts of the Commonwealth attractive to a wide range of industries.” “Nothing is more important to our future than making sure our students have the education and skills they need to compete and succeed in a digital world. Today, we take the first step in the crucial process of connecting them to that digital world,” said CEO of the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative Pamela Goldberg.The immediate benefits of providing fiber-optic connectivity to the 1,200 Community Anchor Institutions include:• Opportunities to enhance school curriculums. These opportunities include virtual field trips, access to online content such as videos or podcasts, and the opportunities to learn and use digital technologies such as websites, wikis and blogs.• Greater bandwidth in libraries so that they can meet the increasingly digital needs of local residents. For example, libraries will be able to aid in job searching and training by providing access to job websites and assisting with resume writing and computer skills training. They can assist businesses by being a video conferencing hub and can teach digital literacy to the elderly and disabled.• Improved and enhanced communications by police and fire departments internally, across departments and with the public. With this new network, police stations across the region will have reliable, fast access to the state Criminal Information database, and be prepared for the next generation 911, which will allow reports to come in via voice, text, email and even videos of an emergency situation.The MassBroadband 123 network has been developed through industry collaborations, including network operator Axia NGNetworks USA, network builder G4S, owner’s project manager Tilson Technologies and internet service provider Crocker Communications who provided Internet connectivity for the event. “This exciting milestone would not have happened without the support of the Patrick-Murray Administration, the region’s legislative and congressional delegations, the leadership and staff at MassTech and MBI, and terrific industry project partners and community representatives,” said Judy Dumont. "Today is the beginning of the end of the digital divide," said State Senator Benjamin Downing. "Five years ago the MBI embraced its mission to bring high speed Internet to the unserved and underserved communities of western Massachusetts and today is delivering real results. Judy and her team should be congratulated, and I look forward to continuing our partnership as we now turn our attention to building the Last Mile network -- and finally connecting every address in the Commonwealth to the Internet -- together."As the MassBroadband 123 fiber-optic network begins to connect community anchor institutions, the Massachusetts Broadband Institute is looking forward to developing public-private solutions that bring broadband directly to more homes and businesses in Western Massachusetts. Governor Patrick recently filed bond legislation that contains $40 million in new funding for the Massachusetts Broadband Institute at MassTech. The funding is designed to leverage additional investment toward developing last-mile solutions that bring broadband connectivity directly to homes and businesses in 45 underserved western and central Massachusetts communities. About the Massachusetts Broadband Institute The Massachusetts Broadband Institute at MassTech is working to extend affordable high-speed Internet access to all homes, businesses, schools, libraries, medical facilities, government offices, and other public places across the Commonwealth, allowing all regions to participate more fully in the innovation economy. MBI also works to promote broadband usage and adoption by our residents and small businesses. Learn more at https://broadband.masstech.org. About the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative The Massachusetts Technology Collaborative is a public agency working to keep Massachusetts at the forefront of innovation, for the purpose of generating more high-paying jobs, higher productivity, greater economic growth, and improved social welfare. We enhance economic growth, accelerate technology use and adoption, and harness the value of research by engaging in meaningful collaborations across academia, industry, and government. From improving our health care systems and expanding high-speed internet across the state to fostering new and emerging sectors, MassTech is driving innovation and supporting a vibrant economy across the Commonwealth. Learn more at www.masstech.org. ####
04.03.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL TO DELIVER KEYNOTE ADDRESS AT BERKSHIRE COUNTY SELECTMAN'S ASSOCIATION SPRING DINNERNeal to Speak with Select Board Members from 30 Berkshire County Communities (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join local elected officials from across the Berkshires to deliver the keynote address at the Berkshire County Selectman's Association annual spring dinner. "My DNA is in local government, so I fully understand the difficulties of managing a local budget," said Neal- who previously served as a mayoral aide, city councilor, and mayor before his election to Congress. "Operating in an economic downturn is extremely trying for municipal governments. I look forward to a productive dialogue on how I can continue partnering with local government to better serve our constituents."The Berkshire County Selectman's Association represents the 30 Berkshire towns that have select boards as their governing body. The organization includes both past and present select board members. According to the Berkshire County Selectman's Association bylaws, the organization's primary purpose is to advance the interests of the towns represented by its membership."We look forward to having Congressman Neal," said Jim Lovejoy, Berkshire County Selectman's Association Chairman and a Selectman from Mount Washington. "It will give our members a chance to meet our new representative in the House and welcome him into this new part of his district. We hope to be able to share our concerns and hear from the Congressman about his priorities and how he sees the relationship between local communities and the federal government going forward."Berkshire County Selectman's Association meetings are held biannually in the spring and fall and include members and their invited guests. In addition to select board members, attendees often include town administrators, police and fire chiefs, members of town boards, and other elected officials. These meetings are a popular way for members from different parts of Berkshire County to meet, share experiences and hear from speakers who address the membership's concerns.
04.01.2013	Distinguished Alumni Awards to be Presented at Massachusetts State HouseFebruary 21, 2013: Amherst, Mass – The UMass Amherst Alumni Association is proud to announce the 2013 recipients of its most prestigious recognition for alumni, faculty and friends: the Distinguished Alumni Awards. This year’s recipients have translated their UMass Amherst experience into distinguished achievement in their field of endeavor, bringing honor to the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Mel Yoken '60, '72 PhD: Distinguished Alumni Award For over a half a century, Yoken has studied or taught French language and literature within the University of Massachusetts system. Chancellor Professor Emeritus of French Language and Literature at UMass Dartmouth, Yoken began his teaching career in 1961 and still meets and advises students on a regular basis.Mary Deane Sorcinelli '78 EdD: Distinguished Alumni Service Award Sorcinelli is Associate Provost for Faculty Development, Director of the Center for Teaching and Learning, and Professor of Educational Policy, Research and Administration at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. The Center supports the professional development of faculty across all career stages and disciplines.Michaela Pommells '02: Distinguished Young Alumni Award Pommells is a social justice strategist, organizer, educator and blogger. She develops curricula and facilitates racial justice and anti-oppression training modules for youth and educators in K-12 schools and universities. She presents regularly at community lectures and interdisciplinary conferences on the historical contexts and present-day impacts of institutional racism and translating the theory of racial justice into practice.Fred Feldman: Distinguished Faculty Award After 42 years of teaching philosophy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, Feldman is still leading large introductory lecture classes. Some 21,000 students have taken courses with Feldman since 1969 when he joined the Department of Philosophy, with twenty-eight of his dissertation students achieving successful careers teaching philosophy.Richard Neal: Distinguished Honorary Alumni Award At-Large Whip for House Democrats and co-chairman of the New England Congressional Caucus, Neal was first elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1988. He represents the first District of Massachusetts, which includes cities and towns in western and central Massachusetts. He is a member of the powerful Ways and Means Committee and the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures. For more than a decade, Neal has been a lecturer in the Journalism Program at UMass Amherst where he teaches the course, “The Politician and the Journalist.” He has participated in and supported a variety of events on campus, including serving as a name reader at the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences Senior Celebration Ceremony. Alumni Association Board President Ron Grasso '92 will present the awards at 12:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 3, 2013 in the Great Hall at the Massachusetts State House in Boston. This prestigious event is sponsored by Alden Credit Union, Marsh U.S. Consumer and Coca-Cola, supporting the UMass Amherst Alumni Association’s “Leaders in the Making” Scholarship Endowment Fund. Scholarships are awarded annually to promising sophomores and juniors who exhibit academic excellence and leadership through volunteerism. For more information, please visit https://umassalumni.com/awards/distinguished_recipients.html. # # #Media Contact: Elena Lamontagne elamontagne@admin.umass.edu 800-456-UMASS
03.25.2013	NEAL WELCOMES FAA DECISION TO KEEP BARNES AIRPORT CONTROL TOWER OPEN (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal welcomed the decision by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to keep open the air traffic control tower at Barnes Regional Airport in Westfield despite forced federal spending cuts. On Friday, the FAA announced that it was closing 149 contract towers around the country due to $630 million in mandatory spending cuts that began earlier in the month. The agency said the closures, which affect nearly one-third on the nation's federal contract towers, will be completed in April. An additional 40 towers that were being targeted for cuts by the FAA, including Barnes, will remain open for now. "I could not be more pleased that Barnes was spared from these serious spending cuts. The security mission of the airport, and the important role the 104th Fighter Wind plays in defending our nation, simply cannot be minimized. It is an invaluable asset on the East Coast for both civilian and military aircrafts. Closure of the control tower at Barnes would also have put our region's public safety and aviation security in serious jeopardy. The FAA made the right decision," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. On Wednesday, Neal joined his colleagues in the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation in sending a letter to the FAA expressing concern with the planned closure of approximately 189 contract air traffic control towers nationwide due to sequestration budget cuts. They were particularly concerned about proposed cuts to airports in Massachusetts. The full text of the letter can be found below: March 20, 2013 Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 RE: DOT/FAA Announcement to Close ATC Contract Towers Dear Administrator Huerta: We are writing to express our concern regarding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announcement to close a number of contract air traffic control (ATC) towers due to the federal budget sequestration. As you probably know, six of those towers service Massachusetts airports; Norwood, New Bedford, Lawrence, Beverly, Worcester and Westfield-Barnes. These regional airports and their ATC towers are key elements in the national air transportation system and critical to our national security. Closing the ATC towers will jeopardize the safety of the flying public as well as that of residents within a certain proximity to these airports, have a negative impact on regional economies and threaten our military readiness. The six airports in Massachusetts accommodate a significant mix of commercial, medical, private and military aircraft and flight services; three of the six reside within the Class B controlled airspace of Logan International Airport and serve as critical reliever-category airports. The ATC tower operations allow for safe arrivals and departures, prevent mid-air collisions, and maintain the safety and efficiency of our national airspace system through critical flight training programs. Combined, the six towers manage hundreds of thousands of operations annually. The FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board place high importance on implementing Safety Management Systems (SMS). We believe that cutting the Federal Contract Tower program and closing these ATC towers is contrary to a safety-first approach. In addition, over the past three decades, the Federal Contract Tower program has represented one of the agency’s most cost-effective safety initiatives. Quite frankly, this decision by the FAA appears to make neither fiscal nor operational sense. We agree on the need to identify means through which to improve our current fiscal situation. But any such effort should not jeopardize the safety, security and economic well-being of our citizens. These six ATC towers and others around the country are critical to the continued successful operation of their respective airports and to the regions they serve, and vital to our national interests. The Federal Contract Tower program’s cost effectiveness and flight safety enhancements are a proven success. At the very least a safety risk assessment should be conducted at each individual facility prior to any final decision regarding ATC tower closings. We strongly urge you to carefully consider the critical importance of the Federal Contract Tower program before taking final action on closing any air traffic control towers. Sincerely, MA Delegation #30#
03.20.2013	Opening Statement of Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee Ranking Member Richard NealSelect Revenue Measures Subcommittee Hearing on Financial Products Tax Reform Discussion Draft Committee on Ways and Means (Remarks as Prepared) Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for calling this important hearing. As you know, the taxation of derivatives is an issue that I have worked on for some time. In fact, when I was Chairman of this subcommittee, we held two hearings on the tax treatment of derivatives and "exchange traded notes" or "ETNs." And I have also introduced legislation to address the tax treatment of ETNs. But going back even further, in 1998, following the collapse of Long Term Capital Management and a Fed bailout in the billions, I joined Barbara Kennelly in filing legislation to shut down the tax avoidance transactions set up through derivatives. With that experience, I can tell you that this topic is not for the faint of heart. Just explaining the different types of derivatives can fill volumes, plus the market is constantly evolving and growing. But this is a very important area of our tax law and one in need of reform. So I applaud Chairman Camp for taking up the challenge and releasing a discussion draft that has a lot of merit. Chairman Camp's legislation updates the antiquated tax treatment of financial derivatives and replaces it with a single set of rules. Under current law, you can have two types of derivatives that are economically similar but are taxed differently. The Camp proposal would eliminate this distinction by requiring investors to use mark-to-market for all derivatives, except for business hedging. And I think harmonizing these rules makes a lot of sense. Today, we will hear from witnesses who will outline some technical issues with the bill. I have also heard from some of my insurance company constituents who may need us to amend the proposal to ensure that legitimate hedging transactions commonly used in that industry to insure against business risk do not get swept into the mark-to-market provisions of the bill. And I hope to work with the Chairman to address these issues. Let me conclude by saying that this is an area where there is agreement between the parties on how to address a problem with our tax rules. So I would encourage my Republican friends to work with us on these proposals and let's get it done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ###https://democrats.waysandmeans.house.gov/
03.13.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: George Goodno 202-962-9660Congressman Neal Honored as BIO Legislator of the YearWashington, D.C. (March 13, 2013) – The Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) announced today its selection of Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA) as Legislator of the Year for 2012-2013. Representative Neal receives the award in conjunction with today’s BIO Legislative Day Fly-In reception."Congressman Neal's sponsorship, along with Congressman Gerlach, of the High Technology Small Business Research Incentives Act would help emerging companies find new sources of investment. Furthermore, the Congressman's joint work on legislation to address the Vaccine Excise Tax merits particular commendation," said BIO President and CEO Jim Greenwood. "Massachusetts is the most dense life sciences region in the United States, and Congressman Neal has been an invaluable resource for the bioscience community within Massachusetts and the industry at large," said MassBio President & CEO Robert K. Coughlin. "His leadership on numerous issues of importance to the industry and commitment to meeting with and understanding the needs of individual bioscience companies should serve as a model to his colleagues around the country. On behalf of the Massachusetts' bioscience industry, we congratulate Representative Neal on receiving this award. It is well deserved."More than 200 biotechnology industry representatives from 43 states will participate in hundreds of meetings with Members of the House and Senate during the BIO Legislative Day Fly-In. Participants will discuss issues critical to the biotechnology industry including, adequate reimbursement for vital therapies under Medicare, FDA Funding, Tax Policy, and capital formation issues relevant to biotechnology companies.Photos of the award presentation are available upon request.About BIO BIO represents more than 1,100 biotechnology companies, academic institutions, state biotechnology centers and related organizations across the United States and in more than 30 other nations. BIO members are involved in the research and development of innovative healthcare, agricultural, industrial and environmental biotechnology products. BIO also produces the BIO International Convention, the world’s largest gathering of the biotechnology industry, along with industry-leading investor and partnering meetings held around the world. BIO produces BIOtechNOW, an online portal and monthly newsletter chronicling “innovations transforming our world.” Subscribe to BIOtechNOW.
03.12.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE – March 12, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-8410NEAL STATEMENT ON TSA DECISION ALLOWING SMALL KNIVES ON PLANESChange in policy is ill-advised, unwise and risky (SPRINGFIELD, MASS) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today in response to Transportation Security Administrator (TSA) John Pistole’s recent decision to allow passengers to carry small knives on commercial airplanes.“This recent change in aviation policy is ill-advised, unwise and risky. How can the TSA justify allowing small knives on an airplane and still prohibit small amounts of toothpaste, shampoo and shaving cream? This unexpected decision is strongly opposed by pilots, flight attendants, federal law enforcement and the vast majority of Americans for a good reason. It simply defies logic. Does the TSA think the flying public will feel safer if passengers are allowed to bring knives and other dangerous items in the cabin of a commercial airplane? It simply is not the right time to be lifting restrictions that potentially could put flights in our country at risk. I am strongly opposed to this proposal and will support legislation in Congress to stop its implementation. The TSA is demonstrating remarkably poor judgment with this decision,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
03.05.2013	{loadposition rscp_roundtable}
03.04.2013	NEW ENGLAND PUBLIC RADIO COMMENDS CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL'S WORK ON NEW MARKETS TAX CREDITSNeal to Speak at Groundbreaking Ceremony (SPRINGFIELD) New Markets Tax Credits, a program originally sponsored by Congressman Richard E. Neal, has made a vital contribution toward New England Public Radio moving to downtown Springfield. Neal will participate in a groundbreaking ceremony with NEPR officials and highlight the direct impact of this critical funding. “Since 2000, New Markets generated $45 billion in capital and created over 500,000 jobs in traditionally overlooked communities- like Springfield- in order to spur economic development, private investment and create jobs,” said Neal. "NEPR will serve as an anchor in downtown Springfield while continuing to provide education and entertainment throughout the Pioneer Valley. The fact that NEPR will be opening a state-of-the-art broadcast facility on Main Street is another indication that downtown Springfield is being revitalized block by block. By choosing the iconic Fuller Building, the station preserves a part of the city's history, and makes an important investment in our future. I believe this exciting project is a game changer for the central business district. NEPR should be congratulated for this bold initiative." Neal recently shepherded through Congress a two-year reauthorization of New Markets Tax Credits."The choice to move to the heart of downtown Springfield was a very deliberate one for New England Public Radio," said Martin Miller, CEO and General Manager. "The station wanted to play a key role in the city's economic and revitalization efforts. We also recognized that the opportunity to occupy a first floor space in the pedestrian center of the city would fundamentally change the profile of our organization. We are so grateful to Congressman Neal and his tenacious support of the New Markets Tax Credits program that helped the station to secure over $1.3 million in funding for the project." #30#
02.28.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE- February 27, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-8410 0r william.tranghese@mail.house.gov STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL ON DEDICATION OF ROSA PARKS STATUE (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement after a statue of Civil Rights leader Rosa Parks was unveiled in the United States Capitol Building today. President Barack Obama joined congressional leaders from both parties on Capitol Hill for a historic unveiling ceremony. Rosa Parks was also awarded the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest honor an American citizen can receive, in June 1999. “Rosa Parks is not only a pioneer in the Civil Rights Movement, she is an American hero who deserves to have a lasting tribute in the United States Capitol. With extraordinary strength, courage and dignity, she helped change the course of history in the United States for the better. By refusing to give up her seat on a bus in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1955, Rosa Parks inspired people from all walks of life to come together to oppose injustice and inequality in America. It is only fitting that “the first lady of civil rights” is the first African American woman to be honored with a life-size statue in the Capitol. Having met her, and having stood at the same bus stop in Alabama where she made history, I believe it is an honor long overdue,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
02.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE- February 25, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (413) 785-0325 or william.tranghese@mail.house.gov CONGRESSMAN NEAL RELEASES ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT SEQUESTRATION WOULD HAVE ON MASSACHUSETTSAutomatic budget cuts would put jobs at risk and harm Middle Class (SPRINGFIELD, MASS) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior Democrat on the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, today released an analysis compiled by the White House that shows the significant impact that sequestration would have here in Massachusetts. The $ 85 billion in automatic spending cuts, scheduled to go into effect on Friday, March 1st, will harm our economy and slash funding for vital services that benefit children, seniors, small businesses, and our brave men and women in uniform. A strong opponent of sequestration, Neal voted against the arbitrary, across-the-board spending cut proposal when it came to the House floor in 2011 during debate on the Budget Control Act. “The vast majority of people in western Massachusetts have told me they are against sequestration because of the significant damage it could do here in the region. They believe this is just another manufactured crisis, and would rather see Congress work together in a bipartisan manner to cut taxes and reduce the deficit. I agree. With four legislative days left before the deadline, I hope a common sense, fair and balanced compromise can be reached that will prevent these devastating spending cuts from taking place. The American people are interested in solutions, not gimmicks,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. #30#
02.15.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 15,2013 CONTACTS: William Tranghese (Neal) 202-225-5601 Sara Lonardo (De Lauro ) 202-225-3661DeLauro, Neal Propose To Make Tax Credit for Working Families PermanentExpanded Child Tax Credit Lifted Nearly Two Million Children Out Of Poverty WASHINGTON, DC-Richard Neal (D-MA) and Representatives Rosa De Lauro (D-CT) introduced legislation today to make the expanded Child Tax Credit (CTC) permanent, putting money back in the pockets of working families. The expanded CTC has been in place since 2009, but is scheduled to expire in 2017."Since 1997, the Child Tax Credit (CTC) has helped improve the quality of life for millions of Americans. This popular and successful program eases the financial burden that many middle class parents face when raising their children. For more than a decade, the CTC has kept many working families in Massachusetts out of poverty. After expanding and strengthening the tax credit on two separate occasions, I believe Congress should work in a bipartisan manner to make the CTC permanent," said Neal"Since Congress expanded the Child Tax Credit in 2009, nearly two million children have been lifted out of poverty," DeLauro said. "Millions of other working parents have used the additional money in their pocket to improve their children's lives. We are not just talking abstract numbers; we are talking about money that makes a real difference in the lives of families across America and in the strength of our economy. "There is no reason we can make permanent an estate tax cut that benefits a miniscule amount of wealthy Americans and not do the same for working families," she continued. "I urge my colleagues to support this legislation so we can bring some certainty and benefits to the people who need it most."The Child Tax Credit Permanency Act would make the CTC expansion that began in the Recovery Act, and was recently extended in the American Taxpayer Relief Act, permanent. It would also index the value of the CTC to inflation to stem the erosion of the credit. In addition to Neal and DeLauro, the legislation is supported by 70 members of the Democratic caucus.Since 2009, nearly nine million families--inciuding approximately 18 million children--have benefitted from an expanded CTC, including two million children who have been lifted out of poverty. The CTC was originally created in 1997 to help working families defray some of the costs of raising a family. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Child Tax Credit, together with the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), has lifted more children out of poverty than any other federal program. Together, the CTC and the EITC have reduced the poverty rate by 8.3 percent.Permanently extending and indexing the Child Tax Credit will help millions of American families with children. Today, a family with one full-time minimum wage earner and two children receives a total child tax credit of $1 ,812. If the CTC expansion ends, that credit would drop to $267, a $1,545 loss and the average family claiming the CTC will see their credit drop by $854. #30#
02.13.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - February 13, 2013 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-5601 or william.tranghese@mail.house.govNEAL WELCOMES US-EU FREE TRADE PROPOSALPresident Obama outlined plan in State of the Union Address (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior member of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement today after President Barack Obama called for trade talks between the United States and the European Union during his State of the Union Address. Neal is also longstanding member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. "Strengthening ties between the United States and the European Union through a transatlantic trade agreement makes good sense. That is why I support President Obama's proposal which he announced during his State of the Union Address last night. A comprehensive trade and investment partnership with the 27 nations that make up European Union will expand the export of U.S. goods and services abroad and create new jobs here at home. Bringing down existing trade barriers, particularly agricultural and chemical, will allow U.S. manufacturers to sell more of their products to the 500 million people who currently live in the European Union. And since the United States and the European Union already have the largest trade and economic relationship in the world, building on that longstanding partnership is wise. With Ireland currently holding the European Union Presidency, I am confident these negotiations will be successful" #30#
02.12.2013	CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-8410 or william.tranghese@mail.house.gov STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL ON PRESIDENT OBAMA'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement tonight on President Barack Obama's State of the Union Address which was delivered in the United States Capitol Building. "I am pleased that President Obama continues to make job creation and economic growth his top priorities. While our economy is clearly showing signs of recovery, too many people in Massachusetts still find themselves out of work through no fault of their own. Economic growth, generated by education, innovation and skill, can help create a thriving middle class. And President Obama clearly believes that the American Dream is something everyone should be able to achieve if they work hard enough. I welcomed his proposals tonight to grow the economy, reduce our deficit and create jobs, and look forward to working with him to build on the progress that was made in his first term. "I was also very pleased that he had a candid conversation with Americans about the scourge of gun violence in our country. As a nation, we need to find common sense solutions that will protect our children and our communities from future acts of gun violence. And today's tragic shooting of two law enforcement officers in California only reinforces that need. I agree with the President that this issue should not polarize America. And I support his call for universal background checks and closing the gun show loopholes. I was glad that President Obama raised the issue of comprehensive immigration reform during his remarks. We can all agree that our immigration system is broken and needs to be fixed. I strongly believe a bipartisan solution can be found that strengthens our borders, requires undocumented workers to pay fees and penalties, pass background checks and learn English. We can no longer ignore the 11 million people who are currently living in the shadows. The President's blueprint offers us a sensible way forward where everyone living in the United States plays by the same rules." #30#
02.12.2013	Praises Senate passage today of VAWA Reauthorization Bill (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a co-sponsor of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (H.R. 11), today praised the U.S. Senate for passing a bipartisan bill (S.47) to reauthorize the VAWA and urged Republicans to swiftly bring up and pass similar legislation in the House of Representatives. The VAWA significantly strengthens the ability of the Federal Government, the States, law enforcement and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. It also includes provisions to ensure that all victims of domestic violence receive the protection they need - including providing new protections, based on findings from experts in the field, for tribal members, immigrants and the LGBT community. "It's been 501 days since the House Republicans let the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) expire. A bipartisan bill passed the Senate today that reauthorizes and strengthens this important law. All 20 women in the Senate voted for it. President Obama has said he will sign it into law. It is now up to the GOP to do the right thing and bring the VAWA reauthorization bill to the House floor for a vote. I believe victims of domestic violence deserve more from their elected representatives than just petty partisan politics. Expanding protections for victims of violence has been a priority of mine for many years. In fact, I have been a proud and consistent supporter of the VAWA since 1994 when it was originally introduced. There is simply no reason why a bill that seeks to protect women should be politicized. After today's action in the Senate, I strongly urge the House Republican leadership to bring this bill to the floor immediately," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. VAWA has improved the criminal justice system's ability to keep victims safe and hold perpetrators accountable. As a result of this historic legislation, every state has enacted laws making stalking a crime and strengthened criminal rape statutes. The annual incidence of domestic violence has dropped more than 50% since VAWA became law. VAWA programs have provided victims with critical services such as transitional housing, legal assistance, and supervised visitation services. They address the unique barriers faced by rural victims, elderly victims, and those with disabilities. The VAWA has also successfully encouraged communities to coordinate their responses to violence against women by bringing together victim advocates, law enforcement, the courts, health care professionals, and leaders within faith communities. On January 22, Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) and other House Democrats introduced H.R. 11, a VAWA Reauthorization identical to S. 47, and Congressman Neal is a co-sponsor of that bill. H.R.11 has more than 190 Democratic co-sponsors, including every Democratic woman in the House.
02.11.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL AND WESTFIELD FIRE DEPARTMENT TO ANNOUNCE $137,000 GRANT Neal to Join Chief Mary Regan and local officials for Federal Grant Announcement (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join Westfield Fire Chief Mary Regan, emergency service personnel and local officials to announce a $137,579 federal Department of Homeland Assistance to Firefighter's Grant. The grant will fund new recruits attending the Massachusetts Fire Academy for Firefighter I & II certification."The ability to send these young recruits for this professional development allows the department to provide first class protection of lives and property in our community while giving young recruits the knowledge and experience they need to work safely in dangerous conditions," said Regan. This critical funding will allow the Westfield Fire Department to meet safe staffing levels by backfilling positions while the recruits are attending the Massachusetts Fire Academy. The ability to keep the firefighter positions filled impacts the operations of the department in order to continue providing the necessary fire protection at safe and adequate levels."Equipping our bravest men and women with adequate training so they can protect us - and themselves - in a time of need is simply a good idea," said Neal. “Ensuring safety is a responsibility of the federal government and I am pleased to advocate for western Massachusetts.” #30#
02.07.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL ANNOUNCES BERKSHIRE COUNTY CONGRESSIONAL OFFICE AND TWO FULL-TIME STAFF MEMBERSNeal to Host Local Officials at Office (PITTSFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join government officials and business and civic leaders from across Berkshire County as he announces the opening of his Berkshire County Congressional Office. Neal will employ two full-time staffers dedicated to the Berkshires, Cindy Clark and Dan Johnson."The core function of district Congressional offices is constituent services, and I pride myself on being open and accessible to my constituents," said Neal. "This full-time office in Berkshire County will be a great resource by acting as a direct liaison to all federal agencies." Neal's Congressional offices will assist constituents with a variety of issues, including help with federal agencies, grant resources, service academy nominations, flag requests, and visits to Washington D.C. Neal's dedication to serving the people of the Berkshires is already a well known entity."Both in his campaign and since the election, Congressman Neal has shown a commitment to meeting the needs of the Berkshires," said Berkshire County's state Senator Ben Downing. "He has constantly reached out and listened to constituents from every corner of western Mass. Opening a full time office in Pittsfield, just as Congressman Conte and Olver had, is a concrete symbol of that commitment we have seen from him starting on day one." Cindy Clark resides in Dalton with her husband Ed and daughter Olivia. She is a 2006 graduate of UMASS-Amherst with a B.S. in Nursing. Clark previously served as senior casework director and office manager for Congressman John W. Olver from 1991-2012 and served as a congressional aide for the late Congressman Silvio O. Conte from 1986-1991. Dan Johnson is a lifelong resident of the Berkshires who graduated from Pittsfield High School in 2004. He studied political science at Hartwick college in Oneonta, NY. Johnson was a pivotal asset to Neal's resounding victory during the reelection campaign in 2012. Neal will have three offices serving the people of the First Congressional District. In addition to the Berkshire County Office, Neal will maintain his offices in Springfield and Washington D.C. #30#
02.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Matt Schwartz (on behalf of the Brewers Association)mschwartz@rosengrouppr.com 646.695.7047 Brewers Association Honors Congressmen Gerlach and Neal With Legislator of the Year AwardsBoulder, CO • February 5, 2013—Citing tireless work on behalf of America’s small and independent craft brewers, the Brewers Association (BA)—the not-for-profit trade group representing the majority of U.S. brewing companies—today presented two United States Congressmen with the organization’s Legislator of the Year Award. Reps. Jim Gerlach (R-Pa.) and Richard E. Neal (D-Mass.) were recognized for their stewardship of the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce Act (Small BREW Act). The awards were presented at a ceremony today in Washington, D.C., by Bob Pease, chief operating officer of the Brewers Association; Jim Koch, co-founder and chairman of Boston Beer Company; and Bill Covaleski, founder and brewmaster of Victory Brewing Company and president of the Brewers of Pennsylvania. “The efforts of Congressmen Gerlach and Neal reflect their appreciation for America’s small brewers and the significant economic contributions that these men and women bring to the national economy,” said Pease. “We recognize both of these leaders for their commitment to creating a level playing field for small and independent brewers in their home states and across the country.”"Congressman Neal, more than anybody else in Congress, has stepped up to champion the growth and the success of small American brewers,” said Koch. “We thank him for his steadfast commitment in working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle towards legislation that will spur small businesses in his Congressional district and virtually every community in America.” The Small BREW Act, introduced by Gerlach and Neal during the 112th Congress and expected to be reintroduced in February 2013, aims to recalibrate the federal excise tax rate structure to further foster the growth of America’s dynamic craft brewing community. Currently, brewers producing less than 2 million barrels of beer per year pay $7 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels they brew, and $18 per barrel on every barrel thereafter. If the Small BREW Act is adopted, the rate for the smallest brewers and brewpubs would be $3.50 on the first 60,000 barrels. For production between 60,001 and 2 million barrels the rate would be $16.00 per barrel. Any brewer that exceeds 2 million barrels (about 1 percent of the U.S. beer market) would begin paying the full $18 rate. Breweries with an annual production of 6 million barrels or less would qualify for these tax rates. "Small brewers provide a significant economic spark, creating tens of thousands of jobs and generating tens of billions of dollars in economic activity each year in Pennsylvania and across America,” said Congressman Gerlach, co-chairman of the House Small Brewers Caucus. “These independent and innovative small business owners often work just as hard at improving their communities as they do perfecting their world-class products. It is a tremendous honor to be recognized by the Brewers Association for my bipartisan work in Congress to help small brewers remain competitive and continue building upon the success of America’s craft-brewing revolution.""I am honored that the Brewers Association has chosen me as one of their Legislators of the Year,” said Congressman Neal. “As someone who represents many small brewers in Massachusetts, this award has special meaning for me. Craft breweries are locally owned, generate economic development and create good jobs. They also make distinctive products for passionate consumers. As a supporter of the industry, I have introduced bipartisan legislation that would give small brewers a substantial tax break. My plan would recalibrate the beer excise tax for America's craft brewers, allowing them to reinvest in their businesses. With the help of Brewers Association, I believe this initiative can be approved by the House of Representatives during this session of Congress." Nationally, small and independent brewers are bolstering the economy in a significant way. These small businesses employ over 100,000 full- and part-time employees and generate more than $3 billion in wages and benefits. They also pay more than $2.3 billion in business, personal and consumption taxes. In 1976, there were approximately 30 small brewers in the United States. Today, there are more than 2,000. ###About the Brewers Association The Brewers Association is the not-for-profit trade association dedicated to small and independent American brewers, their craft beers and the community of brewing enthusiasts. The Brewers Association (BA) represents more than 70 percent of the brewing industry, and its members make more than 99 percent of the beer brewed in the U.S. The BA organizes events including the World Beer Cup®, Great American Beer Festival®, Craft Brewers Conference & BrewExpo America®, SAVOR?: An American Craft Beer & Food Experience and American Craft Beer Week®. The BA publishes The New Brewer magazine and its Brewers Publications division is the largest publisher of contemporary and relevant brewing literature for today's craft brewers and homebrewers. Beer lovers are invited to learn more about the dynamic world of craft beer at CraftBeer.com and about homebrewing via the BA's American Homebrewers Association. Follow us on Twitter.
01.31.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL ANNOUNCES $1.1 MILLION U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION GRANT FOR HAMPDEN-WILBRAHAM SCHOOLS Neal to Tour Minnechaug High School and Teach Government Class (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will visit Minnechaug High School today to announce a $1.1 million U.S. Department of Education grant and teach a government class."As we educate our children it is important to make the learning experience as welcoming as possible," said Neal. "The U.S. Department of Education is initiating innovate strategies for success and I am pleased the Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School District is at the forefront of meeting individual student standards." The Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School District became one of only 60 recipients in 24 states to receive an Elementary Counseling Grant from the USDE’s Office of Elementary and Secondary Education/Office of Safe and Healthy Students. This federal initiative has been established to support counseling programs in schools, with the goal of increasing the number of qualified mental health professionals available to expand availability, quantity and quality of counseling services. The Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School District is expected to receive $366,733.00 per year for the next three years to implement its proposed project: HWRSD—Strengthening Student Success.The Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School District will use these funds to hire three additional school psychologists to assist in the implementation of an innovative, data-driven and comprehensive approach to behavioral health services that are accessible to all students. The model is based on the new State blueprint for a system that offers a flexible framework of tiered interventions for academic and social/emotional health. The grant will allow the Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School District to expand current models of school-wide positive behavioral support, such as the Responsive Classroom program, and to train psychologists, counselors and teachers in strategies that support students with more significant needs. As a result of this grant, other anticipated benefits include: expanding community-based mental health referral capacity to increase availability for families, advanced staff training in psychological first aid and critical incident response, comprehensive transition plans for students returning from hospitalizations expanded, community-wide suicide and self-injury prevention resources, and expanded parent education opportunities. #30#
01.30.2013	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick named William "Mo" Cowan as the state's interim United States Senator. "I want to personally congratulate Mo Cowan on being named the state's interim Senator. Given his past experience as Governor Patrick's Chief of Staff and legal counsel, I know he has a firm grasp on the issues that are important to the people of Massachusetts. He has reputation for being thoughtful, smart and seasoned; qualities that will serve him well in the United States Senate. I look forward to working with him in Congress for the next five months as we fight for the best interests of the people of the Commonwealth."
01.29.2013	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after the United States Senate approved the nomination of Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts to be the next Secretary of State. "As he leaves the United States Senate to take the world's stage, I wish my good friend John Kerry nothing but the very best. Few people have the background and experience to succeed Hillary Clinton, but I expect his transition as our next Secretary of State will be seamless. He faces many challenges; from North Africa, North Korea and Iran, but I know he is more than up to the task. Just as John has has been an extraordinary representative of the people of Massachusetts, I am certain he will be a strong voice for the best interests of the United States around the globe. President Obama has made the right choice," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
01.25.2013	PITTSFIELD EXPORT FORUM Opportunities for Western Massachusetts ExportersSponsored by Congressman Richard E. Neal Berkshire Chamber of Commerce U.S. Commercial Service - U.S. Department of Commerce Massachusetts Small Business Development Center Network - Mass Export Center Associated Industries of Massachusetts CONECT Massachusetts Office of International Trade and Investment Small Business AdministrationJanuary 29, 2012 9 am - 11:30 am Location: Crowne Plaza, One West Street, Pittsfield Today's global economy provides opportunities for businesses around the world. Come learn what it takes to achieve export success from those who have done just that! The Pittsfield Export Forum will include a panel of business exporters from Western Massachusetts who will share their success stories. The forum also will feature an overview of a broad range of programs available to help companies with their international business efforts, including the opportunity of grant money available to small businesses to export. Following the presentations, participants will have the opportunity to meet one-on-one with government officials and local businesses to answer specific export questions.AgendaWelcome Remarks - Congressman Richard E. NealPanel One Tom Gradel, Massachusetts Office of International Trade and Investment Ann Pieroway, Massachusetts Export Center John Joyce, Small Business Administration Melissa Branzburg, U.S. Department of Commerce Keith Girouard, Massachusetts Small Business Development Center Network Frank Canning, MassDevelopmentPanel Two Mike Supranowicz, President & CEO, Berkshire Chamber of Commerce – Moderator Mike Tweed-Kent, Vice President & General Manager, General Dynamics Virginia DuBois, Inside Sales Manager, Interprint Josh Levine, President, LympheDIVAs Lyn Biasin, Supply Chain Manager, Onyx Michael Hopsicker, President & CEO, Ray Murray, Inc. Laurie Gallagher, Chief Compliance Counsel, SABIC
01.23.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL ANNOUNCES $168,000 GRANT FOR PITTSFIELD'S REID MIDDLE SCHOOL Neal to Visit with Students and Take Part in Roundtable Discussion with Local Officials (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will visit Reid Middle School - 950 North St, Room 139- tomorrow at 10:15am to announce a $168,000 federally-funded education grant. "Investing in education is our most valuable resource," said Neal. "This grant will go a long way toward preparing thousands of students across our Commonwealth for higher education and job training." The purpose of the federally-funded Massachusetts 21st Century Community Learning Centers (CCLC) Grant is to support additional learning time for students in grades K-12 before and/or after school and during the summer that provides creative and engaging academic enrichment opportunities that will help to address college and workforce readiness and success. Federal funding for Massachusetts schools through the CCLC Grant totaled $5,633,387. "This 21st Century Learning Center will be an ideal program for Reid students and their families given the demographics and diverse student population at Reid," said Principal Morgan Williams. "This funding will allow our school to target support for students who need it the most, and it will also provide academic enrichment services such as tutoring in core subjects like written and verbal communication, science and math. This programming will provide an enriching learning opportunity to students in a 21st century learning environment. I couldn't be more pleased that our application was awarded funding from the Dept. of Education."Participating in the roundtable with Neal and Williams will be Mayor Dan Bianchi, School Superintendent Gordon Noseworthy, 7th Grade Team Leader Julia Saboriun, 21st Century Director for Pittsfield Public Schools Liz Baker and students from Reid Middle School. This grant program will enable 22 school districts and their partnering organizations from across Massachusetts to support 448 hours of additional learning time during before and/or after school time and during the summer for students in grades K-12. In these communities, 44 new CCLC sites will provide creative and engaging academic enrichment opportunities that will help to address college and workforce readiness and success. Presently at Reid - and within Pittsfield - there is an insufficient amount of after school programming to meet the social, emotional, physical and academic needs of its middle school students and families. 21st CCLC is about supporting school day learning through academic support and enrichment classes. The program has a high academic focus with an inquiry/project based approach in a challenging after school setting model. 90 students will be enrolled in after school and summer programming annually for three years. Academic focus will be on writing, listening, science and technology standards in the new Common Core. Student targets are to serve youth that have absentee issues, falling behind academically, at-risk, and/or behavior issues. Partnerships will be with a wide range of organizations including Berkshire Theatre Group, Berkshire Health Systems, Berkshire Museum, Pittsfield Community TV and IS183.In addition to Reid Middle School, Berkshire Hills Regional School District received $264,000 for Muddy Brook Elementary and Monument Mountain Regional High School. #30#
01.23.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL AND SAMUEL ADAMS FOUNDER JIM KOCH PROMOTE SMALL BREWER REINVESTMENT AND EXPANDING WORKFORCE ACT BY VISITING GREAT BARRINGTON BREWERYNeal to Tour Barrington Brewery and Restaurant and Meet with Small Brewers (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal and Samuel Adams founder Jim Koch will tour Barrington Brewery and Restaurant - at 420 Stockbridge Road in Great Barrington - on Thursday at 2pm to promote the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce Act. Neal plans to introduce this bipartisan bill with co-author Jim Gerlach (R-PA) in February. "As we know, small business is the lifeblood of our local economy and the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce Act will have a direct impact on western Massachusetts," said Neal, referring to breweries in western Massachusetts communities including Great Barrington, Stockbridge, Millers Falls, Pittsfield, Northampton, Southampton and Amherst. "When we help small businesses we know they are going to hire local residents who will in turn spend money back in the local economy." There are 2,300 small and independent craft brewers across the country. Although the average small business employs between 10 and 50 workers, this job-creating industry employs over 100,000 full-time and part-time workers and generates more than $3 billion in wages and benefits a year. “Congressman Neal understands that job creation is best done by small business," said Gary Happ of Barrington Brewery and Restaurant. "His tenacity in making sure that the Barrington Brewery has a chance to compete in an industry dominated by 'the big guys' gives folks like us a chance to brew and sell a quality product. That chance is all we ask as we believe in our craft, our products and the potential for us to put more people to work."Established in 1976, the tax rate for small brewers has not kept pace with the economic realities between small and large brewers in the United States. Under current law, a small brewer that produces less than 2 million barrels of per year pays $7.00 per barrel on its first 60,000 barrels produced per year. If production exceeds 60,000 barrels, the per barrel tax is $18.00, which is the same amount that the two largest brewers pay on their production of more than 160 million barrels. Although small brewers only produce 6% of the beer sold nationwide, these independent businesses have made key investments in our communities across America. To support these small businesses and help spur Main Street job growth, America’s small brewers need a recalibration of the excise tax that is more in line with today’s realities. The proposed Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce Act would create a graduated beer excise tax rate of $3.50 and $16.00 for small brewers and raise the ceiling to qualify for the small brewer rates from two million barrels to six million barrels. These modifications are minor. However, an economic impact study by Dr. John Friedman, an economist at Harvard University, estimates that over five years the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce Act would generate nearly 4,400 jobs in the first year with an average of 300 jobs in each subsequent year over five years. In addition, the study estimates that the bill would generate roughly $153 million in economic activity in the first year and approximately $865 million over five years. According to the Massachusetts Brewers Guild, there are 33 craft breweries in the Commonwealth, employing 1333 people. By 2013, the number of craft breweries is expected to reach 43. Total annual revenues from small brewers in Massachusetts is $535 million, while the barrelage is 386,662 pounds. In addition, excise tax paid from Massachusetts brewers is $1.275 million.Along with Koch, fellow brewers attending will be Sergio Bonavita of Westfied River Brewing, Jeremy Goldberg of Cape Ann Brewing, Andrew Mankin of Barrington Brewery, Kelly McKnight ofWatch City Brewery, Tyler Guilmette of Brewmaster Jack's, Chris Post of Wandering Star, Gary Bogoff of Berkshire Brewing and Rob Martin of Ipswich. #30#
01.18.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL AND WILBRAHAM FIRE DEPARTMENT TO ANNOUNCE INCREASED HEALTH AND SAFETY MEASURES Neal to Join Chief Franics Nothe for Federal Grant Announcement (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join Wilbraham Fire Chief Franics Nothe and emergency service personnel to announce a $79,338 federal Department of Homeland Assistance to Firefighter's Grant. The event is scheduled for today, Friday, January 18 at 1. "This generous award will fulfill our needs to provide a safe and efficient environment for our firefighters," said Nothe. "With this award, we will be able to fulfill our goals with providing for our firefighters in turn provide a great service to our community.""Since the Department of Homeland Security began offering Assistance to Firefighter Grants a decade ago, Pioneer Valley fire departments have been very successful obtaining funding," said Neal. “Today marks a milestone in overall public safety as our firefighters and residents continue to have state-of-the-art equipment.” As a result of this crucial funding, the Wilbraham Fire Department will undertake a pair of safety initiatives. The first project will be to install a vehicle exhaust capture system for the Wilbraham Fire Station Headquarters. This will provide exhaust removal for all diesel apparatus and result in a safe, clean environment for Wilbraham firefighters. Diesel exhaust is a carcinogen that can cause lung cancer and other respiratory ailments. The second project will be to replace an antiquated Air Pack filling system for Wilbraham Fire Station Headquarters. The Air Pack filling system will provide efficiency in operation and safety needs for Wilbraham firefighters. #30#
01.17.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL CALLS FOR COMMON SENSE SOLUTIONS TO GUN VIOLENCE (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal released this statement following President Obama's proposal to reduce gun violence."I believe President Obama offered many common sense proposals to reducing gun violence. For example, background checks is something we should all agree upon. We can take many steps here to alleviate some of the wanton violence that occurs; this does not need to be an all or nothing conversation. When you consider the amount of senseless violence that occurs today, often times it is a rapid fire gun which is utilized. While I have no desire to take away rights from legitimate sportsmen or hunters, these measures are aimed at those who perpetuate violent crimes. As we have seen in Newtown and with my friend and former colleague Gabby Giffords, we know the danger when guns get into the wrong hands." #30#
01.16.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL AND HIGHLAND AMBULANCE SERVICE TO ANNOUNCE PURCHASE OF LIFE-SAVING CARDIAC MONITORSNeal to Join Highland Ambulance Service for Federal Grant Announcement (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join Highland Ambulance Service Director Michael Rock and emergency service personnel to announce a $73,483 federal Department of Homeland Security Grant to be used for purchasing two LifePak-15 cardiac monitors. The event is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, January 17 at 1:15. "The closest Level 1 hospital is on average 50 minutes away and sometimes longer," said Rock. "The award of this grant will prove to be a life saver for many of our residents for years to come. The purchase of the monitors was not a reasonably obtainable goal with our limited financial resource as small rural service. The award of this grant was the only way."The LifePak-15 cardiac monitors have the necessary technology that is recommended by the American Heart Association to provide pre-hospital acute care for cardiac patients."I commend Mike and Highland Ambulance Service for their exemplary application in what is an extremely competitive process," said Neal. "These cardiac monitors will play a key role in ensuring the health and safety of the residents of the Hilltowns."Highland Ambulance is the primary ambulance service provider for the towns of Ashfield, Chesterfield, Cummington, Goshen, Plainfield and Williamsburg. Highland also provides primary back-up in the town of Worthington in support of Hilltown Ambulance of Huntington. Highland's service area covers a population of approximately 8000 residents spread out over 160 square miles. Highland has 36 members including 12 Paramedics and 24 EMT's. #30#
01.16.2013	CONGRESSMAN RICHARD E. NEAL'S WORK ON NEW MARKET TAX CREDITS SPARKS REVITALIZATION OF HOLYOKE PUBLIC LIBRARYNeal to Tour Library's Progress and Promote Reauthorization of New Markets Tax Credits (SPRINGFIELD) New Markets Tax Credits, a program originally sponsored by Congressman Richard E. Neal, has made a vital contribution toward the renovation and expansion of the Holyoke Public Library. Neal will tour the Holyoke Public Library tomorrow, Thursday, January 17 at 11:15 with library officials to see the direct impact of this critical funding. “Since 2000, New Markets generated $45 billion in capital and created over 500,000 jobs in traditionally overlooked communities- like Holyoke- in order to spur economic development, private investment and create jobs,” said Neal. "Holyoke has benefited greatly from New Markets, with financing also going toward the Massachusetts Green High Performance Computing Center and the Holyoke Health Center." Neal recently shepherded through Congress a two-year reauthorization of New Markets Tax Credits."New Markets Tax Credits were instrumental in bringing the project to fruition," said Matt Blumenfeld, the Holyoke Public Library campaign director. "Obtaining New Markets for a library, the first time they have been used in such a project in Massachusetts, was a ground-breaking achievement that now serves as an example for other communities throughout the Commonwealth and beyond. We are grateful to Congressman Neal for championing this important funding program."Over time, the library building, which was constructed in 1902, had substantially aged and deteriorated, and was clearly no longer able to meet the needs of the community.But, thanks in large part to NMTC financing, a bold new vision for providing modern library services has been put into action. The new and improved library will provide critical public access to computers and the latest technology. This project is transforming the 25,000 square foot original building into a magnificent 40,000 square foot learning and resource center, with vastly expanded community and programming space, dozens of computers, distance learning classrooms, safe and secure historical archives, a new young adult room and large children’s floor. Renovation and expansion is now nearly 70% complete and the official reopening is planned for fall of 2013. #30#
07.31.2012	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after President Obama signed the United States-Israel Enhanced Security Act into law last week. Neal was a Co-Sponsor of the bill, H.R. 4133, and voted in favor of the bipartisan legislation when it passed the U.S. House of Representatives in May: "As a strong supporter of the State of Israel, I applaud President Obama for signing the U.S.-Israel Security Cooperation Act. The United States has no greater friend in the Middle East, and this agreement will only strengthen the historic bonds between our two great nations. It also reaffirms how committed the American people are to Israel's security and to finding a path to lasting peace in the region. Having visited Israel, and knowing the daily threat it faces from its neighbors, I strongly believe the Israelis have every a right to defend themselves. Israel is a sovereign nation, and our support and friendship remains unwavering, particularly when it comes to security issues. As they face provocation from bad actors like Iran, Hamas and Hezbollah, we will continue to stand in solidarity with our friends and allies. The alliance between the United States and Israel has been significantly enhanced by the signing of this unprecedented agreement. It will expand security and intelligence cooperation between the two states, but it is also a reflection of our shared and common values. As the only democracy in the region, a safe and secure Israel will always be in the best interest of the United States national security."
07.24.2012	Introduce legislation to extend provisions, also to be included in Democratic alternative WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Democrats today introduced legislation to extend the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit and the American Opportunity Tax Credit, three vital refundable tax provisions that Republicans have proposed vastly curtailing (and ending entirely, in the case of the AOTC) as part of their Bush tax cut extension for the wealthiest Americans. The extension of the three credits will also be included in the Democratic alternative to the Republican tax cut proposal to be voted on next week. That Democratic proposal will extend the Bush tax cuts for households with incomes below $250,000. Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) is the lead sponsor of the extension of the AOTC, while Select Revenues Subcommittee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) is the lead sponsor of the extension of the EITC and CTC. The proposal would extend: Child Tax Credit: Generally, taxpayers with income below certain threshold amounts may claim the child tax credit to reduce federal income tax for each qualifying child under the age of 17. The Bush tax cuts increased the credit from $500 to $1,000 and expanded refundability. The amount that may be claimed as a refund was 15% of earnings above $10,000. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided that earnings above $3,000 would count towards refundability. This proposal extends the current child tax credit for an additional year, through 2013. Earned Income Tax Credit: Under current law, working families with two or more children currently qualify for an earned income tax credit equal to 40% of the family’s first $12,570 of earned income. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act increased the earned income tax credit to 45% for families with three or more children and increased the beginning point of the phase-out range for all married couples filing a joint return (regardless of the number of children) to lessen the marriage penalty. This proposal extends for an additional year, through 2013, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provisions that increased the credit for families with three or more children and increased the phase-out range for all married couples filing a joint return. American Opportunity Tax Credit. Created under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the American Opportunity Tax Credit is available for up to $2,500 of the cost of tuition and related expenses paid during the taxable year. Under this tax credit, taxpayers receive a tax credit based on 100% of the first $2,000 of tuition and related expenses (including course materials) paid during the taxable year and 25% of the next $2,000 of tuition and related expenses paid during the taxable year. Forty percent of the credit is refundable. This tax credit is subject to a phase-out for taxpayers with adjusted gross income in excess of $80,000 ($160,000 for married couples filing jointly). This proposal extends the American Opportunity Tax Credit for an additional year, through 2013. “While rightly concerned with the federal deficit, we must also remain concerned with the ‘opportunity deficit,’ when students cannot develop their God-given potential to the fullest extent,” said Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). “Extending the ‘More Education’ tax cut will continue to close this gap, allowing more students to achieve all the education for which they are willing to work.” “As we address the expiring tax provisions, it's critical that we not forget middle-income and working poor families,” said Select Revenues Subcommittee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA). “Even though the Republicans tell us that they're against raising taxes, what they really mean is they're against increasing taxes on the wealthy. The House and Senate Republican tax packages would raise taxes on millions of low and moderate-income families at the end of this year. I urge my House Republican friends to break with the Senate and extend the enhancements to the child tax credit and earned income tax credit from my bill when they bring the legislation to the House floor.” “Republicans are not only threatening a tax hike on middle-income Americans by holding their tax cuts hostage, they are pushing for a tax increase on 25 million lower-income families,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin. “These refundable credits are of vital importance to tens of millions of families and it is critical that they be extended alongside the middle-class tax cuts. Republicans have it upside down: In helping the very wealthy few they are jeopardizing the financial well-being of everyone else.” "At a time when nearly one out of six Americans live in poverty, it's absolutely critical that we extend the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), Child Tax Credit and the American Opportunity Tax Credit that will help lift millions out of poverty and make college more affordable for students,” said Ways and Means Chairman Emeritus Charlie Rangel (D-NY). “In particular, the EITC has become our nation’s largest and most important anti-poverty program, offering an average of $1,700 per year to each of 20 million low-income working families. As the largest federal work support program in the country — $37 billion in tax relief annually— the EITC moves over 2.5 million children above the poverty line each year, more than any other federal program. I was proud to fight for the expansion of this program before, and I will fight for it again this time." “At a time with a growing number of American families are living in poverty, Congress should be focused on policies to reverse that disturbing trend,” said Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA). “Instead, House Republicans are fighting to preserve massive tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires and allowing vital tax programs that help needy families to expire.” “As Republicans hold the line on tax cuts for the wealthy, critical education and child care tax credits are set to expire for millions of students and working families,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA). “The President has offered a compromise that would give millions of families certainty as Congress debates tax cuts for the top 2% of Americans. These credits, which benefit millions of working class families and students, are a no-brainer and should be passed immediately.”
07.18.2012	U.S. Secretary of Transportation will visit Springfield on Monday to tour the historic landmark (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that nearly $21 million in federal funding has been formally approved for Springfield's Union Station and the Pioneer Valley Transit Authority (PVTA). Approximately $17 million will be used in the planned renovation of the historic landmark in the city's northern blocks region, and an additional $3.9 million will be directed to the PVTA for the maintenance of the local public transportation system. He also announced that the United States Secretary of Transportation, Raymond H. LaHood, will visit Springfield on Monday to meet with local officials to discuss the $45 million redevelopment project and tour the historic train station. "I have been determined to turn Union Station into a modern intermodal transportation for many years. Restoring this historic structure, and turning it into a thriving 21st Century transportation center has been a top priority of mine going back to my days as Mayor. I remain convinced that the successful renovation of Union Station can literally transform the north blocks of downtown Springfield. The renewal of this local treasure has been confirmed with today's announcement, and a new generation of travelers will soon be passing through its doors. With $72 million in federal funds being used to renovate the Connecticut River rail line, and bring high speed rail to western New England, more than $100 million is being invested in our local infrastructure. In addition to improving our transportation system, these important projects will also bring much needed economic development and jobs to the Pioneer Valley. I want to personally thank Secretary LaHood for his ongoing support to our region, and look forward to timely visit to Union Station next week," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. The complete renovation of Union Station into a regional intermodal transportation center is expected to cost $45 million. The building is owned by the Springfield Redevelopment Authority. Demolition of a portion of the facility will begin later this year, and construction work will start in the spring 2013. Union Station was built in 1926. Details of Secretary LaHood's visit to western Massachusetts will be released at the end of the week.
07.11.2012	More than $4million in federal funds will help communities pay for debris removal (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded two communities in western Massachusetts more than $4million in federal assistance to pay for debris removal that was caused by the severe snowstorms on October 29, 2011. The Town of Agawam will receive approximately $3,133,033, and the Town of Sturbridge $1,160,517, in Public Assistance grants that will cover 75% of clean up and recovery costs associated with the storms. Immediately following the Nor'easter, Neal urged President Obama to issue a disaster declaration which makes federal assistance available to cities and towns. Through the Public Assistance Program (PA), FEMA provides supplemental federal disaster grant assistance for debris removal, emergency protective measures, and the repair, replacement, or restoration of disaster damaged, publicly owned facilities. The PA Program also encourages protection of these damaged facilities from future events by providing assistance for hazard mitigation measures during the recovery process. "Having seen the devastation from the snowstorm firsthand, I know how important this federal assistance is to local communities who are still struggling to pay for cleanup costs. Literally thousands of trees across western Massachusetts had to be cut down, removed and disposed of. When you include overtime costs, the recovery process becomes very expensive for towns like Agawam and Sturbridge. That is why I am pleased that this important reimbursement assistance has been approved," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. FEMA obligates funding for this project directly to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. It is the Commonwealth's responsibility to ensure the eligible sub-grantee receives the the award. Following the state's review process and upon receipt of appropriate documentation, they will provide funds to the communities on a reimbursable basis. FEMA's mission is to provide assistance to local and state governments, and certain types of private nonprofit organizations, so that communities can quickly respond to and recover from major disasters or emergencies declared by the President.
03.07.2012	Maintaining dollar note would prevent waste and help western Mass economy (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal today applauded a recently published report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that concluded a transition to the $1 coin would cost the federal government $531 million over the first ten years and impose unnecessary costs on American businesses. A senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Neal has consistently fought to close tax loopholes to help the American taxpayer save billions of dollars. He has also worked save and create jobs in western Massachusetts. Crane & Co., which has produced nearly all U.S. currency since 1879, employs more than 850 workers in its Dalton facility. Last week’s finding by the GAO reinforced policy changes made by the Obama administration last year. Citing excessive inventories, the Treasury Department suspended production of the coins in December 2011. Approximately $1.5 billion dollars in dollar coins are currently in storage at the Federal Reserve, unwanted by the American consumer. Suspension will also reduce the U.S. Mint’s expenses by $50 annually. “I applaud the GAO for providing additional information on the fiscal drawbacks of the dollar coin. The American people have always preferred the dollar note over the coin. And we have now learned the Obama administration’s decision last year to curtail production of dollar coins will help save taxpayers millions of dollars. As a result, I see no good reason to switch from bills to coins. I also want to see those jobs at Crane Paper stay right here in western Massachusetts ” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. As part of the GAO study on the disadvantages of the dollar coin, the Treasury Department cited excessive costs to American businesses as part of their objections. “The GAO has not considered the total cost associated with replacing the $1 note with the $1 dollar coin, including; transportation, production, environmental, and other costs,” said Treasury spokesperson Dan Tangherlini. Federal Reserve official Jeffrey Marquardt also suggested the risks of counterfeiting were more significant for coins than dollars. “Unlike the $1 note, the $1 coin does not have any machine-readable or publicly-usable counterfeit deterrent features,” said Marquardt. He cited also specific examples of counterfeiting of the U.S. Sacagawea dollar coin in Latin American countries. “The GAO, the Treasury Department, and the Federal Reserve have all spoken. The $1 coin is a fiscal loser. It is easier to counterfeit the $1 coin, and the transition costs of retrofitting our banking system to accommodate the dollar coin are too great. The risks associated with the $1 coin provide enough reason to shelve the dollar coin legislation proposed in the U.S. House last year,” Congressman Neal continued. In 2011, Senator Scott Brown and Senator John Kerry introduced legislation entitled the “Currency Efficiency Act” (S.1624) to specifically address inefficiencies in the present currency system. Following the publication of the GAO report last week, Neal said he looks forward to working with his colleagues in Congress to “consider bipartisan legislation to put an end to waste in our nation’s currency system.”
02.07.2012	Februrary 7, 2012 BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Richard E. Neal, John Tierney, and Stephen F. Lynch, today announced that firefighters and emergency response teams across Massachusetts will receive $1,785,303 in federal funding to improve the safety of our communities and firefighters. The funding, awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), will go towards training, health programs, new safety equipment and emergency vehicles, and increased training for front line firefighters in communities. "Massachusetts firefighters put their lives on the line every time that alarm bell sounds, and this investment helps them have the best equipment and training to keep them safe and ready to respond,” said Sen. Kerry. “I am thankful that our local fire departments will receive these critical resources,” said Sen. Brown. “I will continue working within the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to make sure the Assistance to Firefighters Grants are there for our heroic firefighters.” “The brave men and women who work in our local fire departments deserve to have the best training and equipment in order to do their jobs effectively. These important federal grants will help our firefighters and first responders keep cities and towns in Massachusetts safe,” said Rep. Neal. “Particularly in the wake of the tragic recent deaths of fighters in Peabody and Worcester, it is imperative that we ensure the safety of our local firefighters as they protect us. These funds will help support the brave efforts of our firefighters in Amesbury, Topsfield, and Nahant, and ensure they have the equipment they need to do their jobs safely and effectively,” said Rep. Tierney. “With our firefighters on the front lines every day, this funding is crucial,” said Rep. Lynch. “I commend Chief Kevin Murphy and the entire Braintree Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant. This funding will go a long way in helping our firefighters keep the town of Braintree safe.” The following fire departments have received AFG funding: Charlton Fire Department $268,361 Wilbraham Fire Department $99,944 Northampton Fire Department $49,500
01.25.2012	January 25, 2012 (WASHINGTON) "As a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, I support President Obama's call for more tax fairness for the middle class. There is no reason why a billionaire should be paying a lower effective tax rate than hard working families in Massachusetts. I also believe the overwhelming majority of American support simplifying the tax code. There is no reason why Democrats and Republicans can't work together in a bipartisan manner to shrink a tax code that has grown to more than 74,000 pages. President Obama also articulated a blueprint for the economy that will reduce our deficits, create jobs, and help promote continued growth. It is clear that one of his priorities tonight was speaking directly to the Americans family about concerns they have over growing income inequality. But I believe his positive, common sense approach, struck the right tone just as the economy appears to be turning around," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
01.24.2012	January 24, 2012 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal has invited Army 1st Lieutenant Samuel P. Fortsch of the 101st Airborne Division to be his guest tonight at President Obama's State of the Union Address in the United States Capitol Building. Lieutenant Fortsch was born in Springfield, graduated from Longmeadow High School in 2006, and the University of Massachusetts in 2010. He is currently assigned as a Fire Support Officer for Bayonet Troop 1-61 Cavalry Regiment 4th Brigade Combat Team at Fort Campbell, KY. He recently completed a mission in Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. His parents are James and Elizabeth Fortsch of Longmeadow, MA. "I wanted to show my gratitude to our brave men and women in uniform by inviting a local service member to attend the State of the Union as my guest. I thought it would be a good opportunity for Lieutenant Fortsch, who recently returned from Afghanistan, to hear directly from the Commander in Chief about his vision for the future. I appreciate Sam's brave service and thanked him for protecting our nation at home and abroad every day," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
01.18.2012	January 18, 2012 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Commonwealth of Massachusetts $5.9 million in federal funding for the City of Springfield public assistance. The federal funding, $1,969,735.62 for Springfield, is in the form of a Public Assistance grant, and represents a 75% federal reimbursement to the City. On November 7th, 2011 Congressman Neal held a regional summit in Springfield with FEMA representatives and local elected officials to give them an update on the post-tornado federal reimbursement process. He continues to visit every community in his congressional district that suffered damage to lend his support to local recovery efforts. “As we continue to navigate the federal reimbursement process, you will see more announcements like this for communities throughout the tornado ravaged region; I expect more significant funding announcements to be made in the coming weeks. After the devastating storms, I pledged to do everything I could to help the people of western and central Massachusetts recover. While there is no playbook for handling this situation, my advocacy with FEMA on behalf of western and central Massachusetts has been well received,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
12.14.2011	December 14, 2011 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded the Ludlow Fire Department a grant in the amount of $103,950 through its Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The Ludlow Fire Department qualified for the assistance under the category of Operations and Safety. The purpose of the AFG program is to award grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first responder personnel. Using a competitive process that is overseen by fire service subject matter experts, grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. "I have always believed that our firefighters and first-responders deserve the resources necessary to do their jobs effectively. The brave members of the Ludlow Fire Department put their lives on the line every day protecting their community. They need federal support to improve their capability to respond to fires quickly and professionally. This timely assistance will allow Chief Babineau and his team to continue their important public service making Ludlow a safer place to live, work and visit," said Congressman Richard E Neal. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation's overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $5 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much needed response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicle, and training. During Fiscal Year 2011, the AFG will award another $380 million to first responder organizations to enhance their response capabilities and more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
12.08.2011	Springfield Mayor Sarno welcomes reimbursement assistance FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - December 8, 2011 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Commonwealth of Massachusetts $5.9 million in federal funding for the City of Springfield and the Town of Wilbraham's post-tornado debris removal efforts. The federal funding, approximately $3,973,621 for Springfield, and $1,940,851 for Wilbraham, is in the form of a Public Assistance grant, and represents a 75% federal reimbursement to the two local communities. On November 7th, Congressman Neal held a regional summit in Springfield with FEMA representatives and local elected officials to give them an update on the post-tornado federal reimbursement process. He continues to visit every community in his congressional district that suffered damage to lend his support to local recovery efforts. "As the federal reimbursement process begins, the local recovery and rebuilding process continues. Today's announcement is just the start of federal disaster relief for the communities that suffered damage from the June tornado. I expect more significant funding announcements to be made in the coming weeks. After the devastating storms, I pledged to do everything I could to help the people of western Massachusetts recover. This federal reimbursement will help the resilient communities of Springfield and Wilbraham rebuild following the worst natural disaster in a generation," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "I'm pleased things are beginning to move in the right direction towards reimbursements for the City of Springfield," said Mayor Domenic J. Sarno. "My administration will continue to work diligently and on a daily basis with FEMA officials in a collaborative manner so that we receive maximum reimbursements. Today's notification shows that we're beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel, and I remain appreciative of my city staffers for their ongoing efforts and for the dedicated efforts of Congressman Neal, the Patrick-Murray administration and Senators Kerry and Brown. I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that the taxpayers of Springfield receive every dime in reimbursements were entitled to."
12.05.2011	December 5, 2011 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join town officials in Monson today to announce the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Commonwealth of Massachusetts $2.8 million in federal funding for the Town of Monson's tornado debris removal and disposal costs. The federal funding, approximately $2,887,541, is in the form of a Public Assistance grant, and represent a 75% federal reimbursement to community. On November 7th, Congressman Neal held a regional summit in Springfield with FEMA representatives and local elected officials to give them an update on the post-tornado federal reimbursement process. He continues to visit every community in his congressional district to lend his support to the local recovery effort.
10.21.2011	October 21, 2011 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today following President Obama's remarks today on the Iraq war: "I applaud President Obama's announcement today that the war in Iraq will soon be over and many of our brave men and women in uniform will be spending the holidays with their families and loved ones. After nine years, it is time for our troops to come home, and it is also time for the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own security. President Obama made it clear today that we have kept our word in the region, honored a timetable to withdraw, and given Iraq a unique opportunity to determine its own future. In the past six months we have strengthened our national security and made America stronger. Osama bin Laden, Anwar al Awlaki and Moammar Qaddafi are no longer a threat to the people of the United States. The 43,000 U.S. soldiers that remain in Iraq will be home by the end of this year. And we have begun a drawdown of troops in Afghanistan. As the wars abroad wind down responsibly, our time and resources must be used to put Americans and our veterans back to work. As the Iraq war draws to a close, we must pay tribute to the hundreds of thousands of U.S. troops who have served their country in Iraq with honor and distinction. Many of them were wounded in action. The men and women of our armed forces consistently put themselves in harm's way for our freedom and we owe them a debt of gratitude. We must also honor the 4,800 Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice while serving in uniform during Operation Iraqi Freedom. They are true American heroes whose bravery and courage will never be forgotten,"
10.20.2011	October 20, 2011 (WASHINGTON) Following his press conference on Monday with Milford Police Chief Thomas O'Loughlin, and the parents of Matthew Denice, Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following letter to Department of Homeland Secretary (DHS) Janet Napolitano today asking for a "full inquiry into this matter including a top down review of all policies presently in place that allowed Mr. Luis Acosta to board a flight at JFK international airport and travel undetected out of the United States. I also ask for a review of the policy allowing private subcontractors to administer these monitoring devises and whether this contributed to the failure of ICE in this case." Since the disappearance of Mr. Acosta, Neal has worked closely with local law enforcement to prevent a similar incident from occurring and to bring truth and accountability to the Denice family. **Click here to read letter to Secretary Napolitano**
10.20.2011	October 20, 2011 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today on the killing of Colonel Moammar Qaddafi by rebel forces in Sirte, Libya. "In the past decade, terrorist and tyrants like Osama bin Laden, Anwar al Awlaki and Saddam Hussein have left the stage. After more than 40 years of autocratic rule, Moammar Qaddafi has been killed by rebel fighters in his hometown Sirte. The country of Libya, and entire the international community, are a better place now that Qaddafi's brutal reign of terror is over. Throughout the Middle East and Northern Africa, people of all ages have come together in popular uprisings seeking a peaceful and more democratic future. The Arab Spring has inspired millions to reject the fist of tyranny that has ruled their region for decades. With the death of Colonel Qaddafi, the people of Libya now have the same opportunity to create a better and brighter future. The United States will support them in that endeavor. I am also confident that the killing of Qaddafi means that the United States role in the NATO mission in Libya will soon be over. The diplomatic work to build a democratic and inclusive society now begins. The people of Libya can finally turn the page on a dark chapter in their nation's history."
10.13.2011	Legislation Would Help Preserve, Protect and Interpret Nationally Significant Resources and Promote Educational & Recreational Experiences in RI and MA October 13, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Advancing efforts to preserve, protect, and interpret nationally significant resources throughout the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor, promote economic development opportunities, and enhance historic and natural resources of the Blackstone Valley, U.S. Representative David Cicilline (D-RI), along with co-sponsors Richard E. Neal (D-MA), James McGovern (D-MA), and James Langevin (D-RI), introduced legislation to create the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park. This legislation was also introduced in the Senate today by U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), John Kerry (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Scott Brown (R-MA). Spanning from Worcester, MA to Providence, RI, the Blackstone River Valley is the Birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution. The Valley’s beauty and history embodies a landscape rich in natural, historic, and cultural treasures. If enacted, the legislation introduced today would help preserve these icons of industry, environment, and history for generations to come. “I am proud to introduce legislation that will create a new national park unit within the Blackstone River Valley, ensuring the protection and promotion of this vital historical, environmental, and educational resource – all while helping to promote our local economies,” said Rep. Cicilline. “The Valley embodies and unites two important pieces of our past and our future – that of industry and environment. For generations men, women, and children have come to this place to enjoy the region’s natural beauty and learn of the revolution that propelled our nation’s economy – and this legislation will help preserve these experiences for years to come.” "For many years, I have been an enthusiastic and outspoken supporter of the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor. The corridor is a special place that celebrates the region's history, heritage and culture. It is also a magnificent natural resource that is enjoyed by thousands of people each year. I visited Lookout Rock in Northbridge this week and strongly support the bipartisan effort in Congress to make the corridor part of the National Park System," said Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA). “Creating a national park in the Blackstone Valley would be a tremendous boost to our local economy,” Rep. McGovern said. “As the birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution, the Valley holds a special place in our history – and our future. I’m very pleased to be a co-sponsor of this legislation.” “The Blackstone Valley Corridor, home to the industrial revolution, has long been a source of pride for Rhode Island, but is also now recognized by the National Park Service for its historical significance. I look forward to the Corridor’s inclusion in the National Park System to preserve the historical sites that shaped our nation and to encourage more Americans from across the country to visit and tour Rhode Island,” said Congressman James Langevin (D-RI). Established by Congress in November 1986, the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor now includes all or part of twenty-four communities extending from Worcester, MA to Providence, RI. The Corridor contains approximately 400,000 acres of land in total. In July of this year, the National Park Service released a Special Resource Study for the purpose of determining whether the resources evaluated in the Heritage Corridor meet the criteria for inclusion as a unit of the National Park System. The study was completed following extensive input from local stakeholders, the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor Commission, National Park Service staff, and historians. Drawing from the Special Resource Study, the legislation introduced today would establish a new unit of the National Park System to be known as the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park. The Park would be comprised of sites and districts in both Rhode Island and Massachusetts including the Blackstone River and its tributaries; the Blackstone Canal; the non-contiguous nationally significant historic districts of Old Slater Mill in Pawtucket; the villages of Slatersville (in North Smithfield) and Ashton (in Cumberland) Rhode Island; and Whitinsville and Hopedale in Massachusetts.
10.12.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - October 12, 2011 (WASHINGTON, DC / October 12, 2011): Congressman Richard E. Neal, Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Select Revenue Subcommittee, and Senator Menendez (D-NJ), member of the Senate Finance Committee, today introduced bills in both the House and Senate to close an unintended tax loophole that costs taxpayers billions of dollars and provides foreign-owned insurers a significant advantage over their U.S. competitors in serving the domestic market. The Joint Tax Committee estimates that this legislation will help to reduce the deficit by nearly $12 billion over 10 years. In introducing the legislation today, Congressman Neal said: “Ending this unintended tax subsidy for foreign insurance companies will stop the capital flight at the expense of American taxpayers and restore competitive balance for domestic companies. Closing this loophole does not impose a new tax. It merely ensures that foreign-owned companies pay the same tax as American companies on their earnings from doing business here in the United States.” “The increasing trend of foreign insurance companies moving profits made in America offshore and sticking Americans with the bill is incredibly troubling,” said Menendez. “This legislation will staunch the flow of capital overseas, protect American jobs, and reduce deficits by shutting down a tax loophole that provides a huge unintended subsidy to foreign companies at the expense of both their U.S. competitors and American taxpayers.” Under the current law loophole, foreign-controlled property and casualty (P&C) insurers are allowed to strip their income generated in the United States into tax havens (and avoid U.S. tax) merely by reinsuring their U.S. business with foreign affiliates. Over the past decade, the amount of domestic insurance capital that has migrated to tax havens overseas to take advantage of this flaw in our tax law has increased significantly. The legislation introduced today has been developed working with the tax experts at both the Treasury Department and the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation to address concerns that have been raised with prior versions of the bill and develop a balanced approach to address this loophole. Specifically, to close the loophole and eliminate the competitive advantage for foreign-owned insurers, the revised legislation would effectively defer the deduction for any reinsurance premiums paid to a foreign affiliate (if the premium is not subject to U.S. tax). Also, to make sure that foreign-based insurers cannot be disadvantaged relative to domestic insurers, the legislation allows foreign-based groups an election to avoid the deduction deferral rule and be taxed similarly to a U.S. company on the income from these affiliate reinsurance transactions. A foreign tax credit is provided for any foreign taxes paid on such income. The proposed legislation is consistent with U.S. tax treaty and trade agreement obligations.
09.09.2011	Will join with constituents in Springfield, Ludlow, Wilbraham, and East Longmeadow SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2011 10 am Speak at Springfield Remembrance Ceremony Raymond Sullivan Safety Complex 1212 Carew St, Springfield 01104 *Springfield has acquired a piece of the World Trade Center* 1 pm Speak at Ludlow Memorial Service and unveiling of piece of World Trade Center Ludlow Safety Complex 612 Chapin St/564 Center St, Ludlow 01056 6:30 pm Speak at Wilbraham Commemorative Service St. Cecilia's Church 42 Main St, Wilbraham 01095 8 pm Speak at East Longmeadow Ceremony East Longmeadow Fire Station 150 Somers Road, East Longmeadow 01028
08.02.2011	Votes against agreement that does not share responsibility equally (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on the passage of the debt ceiling vote in the U.S. House of Representatives tonight:"In the past month, I have voted to raise the debt ceiling twice because I did not want to see the United States default on its debt for the first time in history. The most recent occasion came on Saturday when I supported a responsible proposal to reduce spending offered by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. But I did not vote for the latest plan because I simply do not believe the agreement reached last night is fair and balanced.In this latest proposal there is no discussion of job creation; no plan to grow the economy; no relief for the millions of Americans who find themselves out-of-work through no fault of their own. The deal opens the door to future cuts in Social Security and Medicare; does not expedite the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq and Afghanistan; and puts future funding for education, hospitals and law enforcement at risk. In fact, the burden of the spending cuts falls squarely on the backs of the middle class and seniors. A vote on raising the debt ceiling has never been held hostage by extreme ideologues that reject compromise and threaten to take our economy to the brink. But political partisans have been playing games with the full faith and credit of the United States of America. And in the process, damaging our reputation and standing around the world. That is why so many Americans are unhappy with the way this process has been conducted."
06.15.2011	(WASHINGTON) After visiting every community in western and central Massachusetts that suffered damage during the tornadoes and thunderstorms on June 1, Congressman Richard E. Neal has sent a letter to President Barack Obama today urging him to immediately approve a major disaster declaration for Hamden and Worcester counties. In his letter, Neal said that due to the significant public and private damage in the region, a swift and bold response from the federal government is necessary. He will also stress the importance of swift federal disaster assistance approval to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate in a phone call tomorrow.
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON –Senator John Kerry, alongside Congressman Richard Neal and the Massachusetts Congressional delegation today sent a letter to President Obama urging him to issue a Presidential Disaster Declaration to assist homes and businesses that have been damaged by the devastating tornadoes across Central and Western Massachusetts. “As a result of these deadly storms, many small business owners face not only the cost of mitigating and repairing damage to their properties but also additional loss because their stores will remain closed until they are able to make necessary repairs or in some cases completely rebuild,” they wrote. “In an economy that has already tested the resilience of these businesses, they are now in even more desperate need of disaster assistance and loans from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Small Business Administration. We urge you to act as swiftly as possible to provide a disaster declaration for Massachusetts to help address this urgent situation in our state and mitigate the losses related to the tornadoes in Central and Western Massachusetts.” The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing in strong support of the forthcoming Commonwealth of Massachusetts’ application for a Presidential Disaster Declaration to assist homes and businesses that have been damaged by the devastating tornadoes across Central and Western Massachusetts that occurred this week. A series of tornadoes and strong thunderstorms hit Massachusetts with heavy rains, severe winds, and flash flooding, causing extreme damage to communities in Central and Western Massachusetts. The tornadoes and severe weather are responsible for four deaths and more than 200 injuries. There has been extensive property damage to homes, schools, and businesses, as well as widespread power outages in Central and Western Massachusetts. In response to this disaster, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick declared a State of Emergency throughout Massachusetts and mobilized up to 1,000 troops from the National Guard to help with rescue efforts in at least 19 communities reporting serious damage. As a result of these deadly storms, many small business owners face not only the cost of mitigating and repairing damage to their properties but also additional loss because their stores will remain closed until they are able to make necessary repairs or in some cases completely rebuild. In an economy that has already tested the resilience of these businesses, they are now in even more desperate need of disaster assistance and loans from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Small Business Administration. Governor Patrick will be providing your Administration with all the required documentation and evidence required for a disaster declaration. We urge you to act as swiftly as possible to provide a disaster declaration for Massachusetts to help address this urgent situation in our state and mitigate the losses related to the tornadoes in Central and Western Massachusetts. Thank you in advance for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, John F. Kerry Scott P. Brown United States Senator United States Senator Edward J. Markey Barney Frank Member of Congress Member of Congress Richard E. Neal John W. Olver Member of Congress Member of Congress John F. Tierney James P. McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress Michael Capuano Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Member of Congress Niki Tsongas William R. Keating Member of Congress Member of Congress
05.27.2011	(SPRINGFIELD/MILFORD) In addition to Congressman Richard E. Neal's three offices permanently available to serve constituents of the Second Congressional District (located in Washington, D.C., Springfield, and Milford), Congressman Neal's staff will be holding office hours in all 41 cities and towns. Below is a schedule of the dates, locations, and times for local office hours; more dates will follow. **All office hours will be held at town halls** CONTACT: (413) 785-0325, (508) 634-8198 Date: Thursday, June 2 Town: Bellingham Time: 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM Date: Thursday, June 2 Town: Hopedale Time: 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM Date: Thursday, June 2 Town: Mendon Time: 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM Date: Wednesday, June 8 Town: Blackstone Time: 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM Date: Wednesday, June 8 Town: Millville Time: 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM Date: Wednesday, June 8 Town: Uxbridge Time: 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM Date: Thursday, June 9 Town: Upton Time: 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM Date: Thursday, June 9 Town: Northbridge Time: 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM Date: Thursday, June 9 Town: Sutton Time: 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM Date: Tuesday, June 14 Town: Grafton Time: 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM Date: Tuesday, June 14 Town: Millbury Time: 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM Date: Tuesday, June 14 Town: Leicester Time: 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM Date: Thursday, June 16 Town: Douglas Time: 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM Date: Thursday, June 16 Town: Webster Time: 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM
03.07.2011	Funds will help Millennium Press keep jobs in the Pioneer Valley FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE – March 7, 2011 CONTACT: William Tranghese (202) 225-5601 (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal will visit Millennium Press in Feeding Hills tomorrow, Tuesday, March 8th, to announce a $1.9 loan for Millennium Press that will help save and create jobs in the Pioneer Valley. New Alliance Bank is granting the loan and it is being guaranteed by the United States Small Business Administration. Local officials and representatives from Millennium Press will also be participating in the ceremony. The event is open press. TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2011 10:00am Congressman Neal to make SBA/New Alliance Bank loan announcement Millennium Press 570 Silver Street Agawam, MA (413) 821-0028
10.25.2010	(SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will hold a press conference today at 4:00pm in the U.S. Courthouse in Springfield to announce that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Massachusetts and Connecticut an additional $120.9 million dollars from the High Speed Rail Intercity Passenger Rail Grant Program to double track the entire New Haven to Springfield line. The federal investment will ready the Knowledge Corridor for significantly upgraded passenger rail service. More details to follow. NEAL TO ANNOUNCE $120.9 MILLION GRANT FOR SPRINGFIELD TO NEW HAVEN RAIL TRACK UPGRADE MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2010 4:00PM UNITED STATES COURTHOUSE 2ND FLOOR 300 STATE STREET SPRINGFIELD, MA (413) 785-0325 ###
10.14.2010	(SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today expressed his frustration that millions of our nation’s Social Security recipients will not receive a cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) in 2011. A formal announcement is expected to be made by the Social Security Administration (SSA) tomorrow. As a result, Congressman Neal has co-sponsored H.R. 5987, the Seniors Protection Act of 2010, which would award 58 million American seniors, veterans and disabled individuals with a $250 payment in the event that no COLA is awarded in 2011. He is urging House leaders to hold a vote when Congress reconvenes in November. This unprecedented situation is the result of economic conditions and the Consumer Price Index (CPI) formula. By law, Social Security benefits keep pace with price levels. The COLA is automatically calculated using data on inflation published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). A spike in energy costs in 2008 and the subsequent lack of sufficient economic growth in 2009 and 2010 resulted in no significant net increase in inflation. The BLS is required to release the final economic statistics that the Social Security Administration uses to calculate the need for a COLA on October 15. The annual announcement cannot be delayed or postponed. “I visit senior citizens from Northampton to Northbridge weekly, and know how important an annual COLA is to their quality of life. Many of these seniors depend on Social Security as their primary source of income. They keep seeing their expenses rise, from energy prices to medical costs, despite what the national inflation statistics suggest. Too many are struggling just to get by. That is why I was disappointed to learn 58 million Americans will not receive a COLA in 2011. This is simply not fair to our local seniors. If a COLA is not approved, I will seek a $250 payment next year to help our Social Security recipients make ends meet,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. Born in Worcester and raised in Springfield, Congressman Neal was raised on Social Security Survivor Benefits after his parents died. He is recognized nationally as a leader in the effort to preserve and protect Social Security and Medicare. The House Ways and Means Committee has jurisdiction over all Social Security and Medicare issues. ###
09.28.2010	(SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today expressed his frustration that millions of our nation’s Social Security recipients will not receive a cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) in 2011. A formal announcement is expected to be made by the Social Security Administration (SSA) tomorrow. As a result, Congressman Neal has co-sponsored H.R. 5987, the Seniors Protection Act of 2010, which would award 58 million American seniors, veterans and disabled individuals with a $250 payment in the event that no COLA is awarded in 2011. He is urging House leaders to hold a vote when Congress reconvenes in November. This unprecedented situation is the result of economic conditions and the Consumer Price Index (CPI) formula. By law, Social Security benefits keep pace with price levels. The COLA is automatically calculated using data on inflation published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). A spike in energy costs in 2008 and the subsequent lack of sufficient economic growth in 2009 and 2010 resulted in no significant net increase in inflation. The BLS is required to release the final economic statistics that the Social Security Administration uses to calculate the need for a COLA on October 15. The annual announcement cannot be delayed or postponed. “I visit senior citizens from Northampton to Northbridge weekly, and know how important an annual COLA is to their quality of life. Many of these seniors depend on Social Security as their primary source of income. They keep seeing their expenses rise, from energy prices to medical costs, despite what the national inflation statistics suggest. Too many are struggling just to get by. That is why I was disappointed to learn 58 million Americans will not receive a COLA in 2011. This is simply not fair to our local seniors. If a COLA is not approved, I will seek a $250 payment next year to help our Social Security recipients make ends meet,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. Born in Worcester and raised in Springfield, Congressman Neal was raised on Social Security Survivor Benefits after his parents died. He is recognized nationally as a leader in the effort to preserve and protect Social Security and Medicare. The House Ways and Means Committee has jurisdiction over all Social Security and Medicare issues.
09.23.2010	(BOSTON) Senator John Kerry and Congressman Richard Neal announced that Springfield Public Schools (SPS) will receive $3,889,500 a year for the next three years in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Education under its Magnet Schools Assistance Program.The Magnet Schools Assistance Program helps prevent minority students in elementary and middle schools from becoming isolated from their peers. The program also helps strengthen students' knowledge and confidence in core academic subjects and with marketable vocational skills.Kerry has long been a supporter of Springfield’s magnet school program. Earlier this year he wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Education in support of SPS’s grant application, and has done so for the past 15 years.“Springfield is working hard to help students succeed and this latest investment is a boost to that effort,” said Senator Kerry. “These programs empower kids from historically underserved areas to be more competitive in the job market once they graduate.”“This significant investment in the Springfield Public Schools will promote diversity and help our students learn and grow. As a former teacher, I believe we must promote innovative education reforms that will help students increase their academic performance. That is the goal of this program and the beneficiaries will be the students who attend the magnet schools at both Sci Tech and Van Sickle,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.“This is great news. We are thrilled that the U.S. Department of Education has again honored our efforts to create visionary, student-centered, theme-driven magnet school programming as a viable choice available to all of students. By augmenting 21st Century Global Communication skills with the Arts, advanced STEM education and Expeditionary Learning, we will be able to offer an array of choices to Springfield families unparalleled in Western Massachusetts,” said Springfield Superintendent of Schools Dr. Alan J. Ingram.Since 1995, the Springfield Public School system has received six consecutive three-year grants, totaling more than $40 million, to fund its Magnet schools.The following schools, and their proposed themes, will utilize the funding. Springfield Central High School (Advanced Studies and the Arts); Springfield High School of Science and Technology (STEM Academies and 21st Century Communications); Van Sickle Middle School (Middle Years International Baccalaureate Program and 21st Century Global Communications); and STEM Middle Academy (STEM and Expeditionary Learning). Approximately 4,600 Springfield students will benefit from the program.For more information about the program please visit https://www2.ed.gov/programs/magnet/index.html.
08.31.2010	$300,000 to tackle storm water issue in Bellingham, Milford and Franklin (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal will join Congressman Jim McGovern and U.S. EPA Deputy Administrator Bob Perciasepe to announce $300,000 in federal funding to help the central Massachusetts communities of Bellingham, Milford and Franklin address the storm water pollution issue that is causing environmental problems in the Charles River. The EPA funding, sought by Congressman Neal and McGovern, will help the three towns analyze and develop the most effective methods to implement new environmental standards including a possible regional storm water utility.TUESDAY, AUGUST 31, 20104:00pm Congressman Richard E. Neal, Congressman Jim McGovern, EPA Deputy Administrator Bob Perciasepe announce $300,000 federal grant for Bellingham, Milford, Franklin storm water pollution Bellingham Municipal Center Selectmen’s Chamber 10 Mechanic Street Bellingham, MA (508) 966-5800#30#
08.10.2010	Click Here for Summary of the Automatic IRA Act of 2010 Introduced by Rep. Richard Neal (PDF) (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, introduced the Automatic IRA Act of 2010 in the U.S. House of Representatives today, with the goal of increasing retirement savings for millions of Americans, particularly young and low-income workers with no access to workplace savings. The bill is based on a proposal in the President’s FY 2011 budget, and a companion bill has been filed in the Senate by Senator Bingaman (S. 3760)."I applaud Congressman Neal for introducing his Automatic IRA bill, and I urge the Congress to help increase the retirement security of working Americans by creating automatic IRAs," said Vice President Joe Biden. “Right now in America, nearly 80 million workers have no employer-based retirement plan, making it hard to save enough for the secure and dignified retirement they deserve. Automatic IRAs, which were proposed in the President’s budget and supported by the Middle Class Task Force that I chair, would help improve the retirement security of tens of millions of Americans by making it easy for employees to save through payroll deposit. Contributions would be purely voluntary; employees would be free to opt out at any time. The legislation also provides exemptions, simplified procedures and a tax credit to make implementation easy for small employers. Creating automatic IRAs is a common-sense proposal that has received bipartisan support in the past, and I congratulate Congressman Neal for his leadership in this matter."Rep. Neal made the following statement of the floor of the U.S. House today:Madam Speaker, I rise to offer legislation to create additional savings opportunities for workers who do not have access to qualified retirement plans through their employers. I am pleased to be joined by several of my colleagues in offering “The Automatic IRA Act of 2010,” which will increase retirement savings for millions of workers. This proposal is based on one contained in the President’s budget.Over the years, Congress has improved incentives for employer-based retirement and pension plans by providing more flexibility, increasing the limits, and lessening the administrative burdens. Still, about one in four employees who have access to these successful retirement vehicles do not take advantage of them.What is a much more difficult group to reach, though, are the estimated 75 million workers who do not have access to these employer-based plans. GAO estimates that half the private sector workforce has no access to an employer-provided retirement plan. That is why today, we are filing legislation to create automatic payroll deposit Individual Retirement Accounts, or Auto IRA’s, for workers who do not have access to employer-provided qualified pension plans. Our bill would require employers to automatically enroll employees in an Auto IRA unless the employee opts out. These are “set it and forget it” payroll deposit accounts. Recent research from Fidelity showed that only one in ten workers eligible for automatic enrollment in employer-provided plans proactively opted out of the plan. The non-partisan Retirement Security Project has estimated that the Auto IRA proposal could raise net national savings by nearly $8 billion annually.This is especially important for younger and low-income workers, as GAO projects that under current law, 37% of all workers will retire with zero plan savings, and of young and low-income workers, 63% will have no plan savings at retirement. According to a “retirement ready” study from the Employee Benefit Research Institute (EBRI) released last month, 64% of workers earning less than $30,000 a year will run out of money within 10 years of retirement. And this problem exists even among large employers with qualified plans. A recent study by Hewitt projecting the retirement needs of 2.1 million employees of 84 large employers finds that the baseline case for full-career contributing employees will only meet about 85% of their predicted retirement needs at age 65.We are, of course, sensitive to any increased burden on small businesses, so the bill provides for a temporary tax credit for employers with less than 100 employees in order to offset the up-front administrative cost of establishing this program. Only employers with at least 10 employees, which have been in business for at least two years, would be covered by the bill. Further, the bill does not mandate any matching contributions by employers or any fiduciary responsibility for the management of the accounts. It is our sincere hope that once employers start participating, they will decide to convert these arrangements to the broader 401(k) plans. The IRA contribution limits are much lower than the 401(k) limits, so business owners may see incentives to switch to the bigger plans.Employers have the option of choosing a private sector manager for the Auto IRA’s, while allowing each employee the right to transfer, or simply allowing the employee to designate the provider at the outset. As a default, employers may also send these contributions to the Treasury Department for the purchase of newly created Retirement Bonds, or R-bonds. Employer-provided retirement plans are highly popular among workers, and in a 2009 survey for AARP, by two to one, respondents said employers should be required to provide a retirement savings plan for their employees. This bill merely requires the employer to set up the mechanism for employees to save on their own.The automatic enrollment feature is not new. It builds upon the success of 401(k) auto enrollment, promoted by the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Many of the workers who will benefit from our bill will likely be moderate to lower-income workers. GAO recently studied the impact of auto enrollment on workers savings levels and found that universal access to retirement savings with automatic enrollment would result in 91% of all workers, and 84% of low-income workers, with accumulated defined contribution savings at retirement. EBRI’s “retirement ready” study found positive benefits already from auto enrollment and auto escalation of contributions in 401(k) plans, particularly for those aged 56 to 62 years old who have a 47% chance of not having enough money at retirement, down from a 60% chance just seven years ago.The Auto IRA proposal, which was jointly developed by Brookings Institution and Heritage Foundation scholars, has garnered widespread support, including AARP and the Minority Business Roundtable, and has been endorsed in editorials around the country.Of the 75 million American workers who have no access to an employer plan, over 40 million work for employers of at least 10 employees. And, only 10% of these workers actually seek out their own IRA’s or other retirement savings vehicles. The Auto IRA bill that we are proposing will reach this critical group of workers and hopefully help them start on the road to retirement security. We urge our colleagues to join us in supporting “The Automatic IRA Act of 2010.”(A summary of the Automatic IRA Act of 2010 is attached above)#30#
08.08.2010	More than $500,000 from U.S. Department of Education (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) has awarded American International College and Springfield Technical Community College more than $500,000 in federal grants. Under the DOE’s Student Support Services Program, AIC will receive approximately $238,427 and STCC will be awarded $279,346. It is anticipated that both grants will be used for a total of five years.“If the United States is going to remain competitive in the global economy, higher education must be more accessible for every American looking to earn a college degree. During these uncertain economic times, these grants will help AIC and STCC education and train the next generation so they can succeed in the workplace. Today’s announcement demonstrates continued investment in both our nation’s youth, and our future,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The purpose of the Student Support Service Program (SSS) is to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first generation or disabled college students to increase their retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year colleges, and foster an institutional climate supportive of the success of low-income and first generation college students and individuals with disabilities.SSS Program participants must be low-income, first generation or disabled college students. All students must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a program of post-secondary education at an institution of higher education. In addition, low-income students who are first generation college students and students with disabilities must have determined to have academic need.Program services may include: 1. instruction in basic study skills; 2. tutorial services; 2. academic, financial, or personal counseling; 4. assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in four-year institutions; 5. assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate and professional programs; 6. guidance on career options; 7. mentoring and special services for students with limited English proficiency and; 8. grant aid.Authority for this program is contained in Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 as amended. Eligible applicants include institutions of higher education or combinations of institutions of higher education.#30#
06.29.2010	Extends closing date for first-time homebuyers by 90 days (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal welcomed the passage of legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives today that would give thousands of Americans an additional 90 days to close on their homes and take advantage of the popular first- time homebuyer tax credit. Under current law, taxpayers who entered into a contract to but a home by April 30 were required to close by June 3o to receive the credit. Under the Homebuyers Assistance and Improvement Act, H.R. 5623, these homebuyers will have until September 30, 2010 to complete their home purchase transactions. The legislation passed by a vote of 409 to 5.There have been numerous reports of homebuyers experiencing delays that could prevent them from closing by June 30, meaning they would no longer qualify for the credit. Up to 180,000 homebuyers nationwide, and nearly 4,000 in Massachusetts, will lose their tax credit through no fault of their own if Congress failed to pass an extension to the homebuyers tax credit by June 30 when the closing deadline expires. The first-time homebuyer tax credit is an extremely popular and successful program that has helped Americans purchase homes and given a boost to the economy. The cost of the legislation is fully offset.“By any standard, this tax credit has been a great success story. Thousands of families in Massachusetts have taken advantage of this credit and purchased their first homes. Because of the program’s popularity, many families were concerned that they would not meet the original closing deadline of June 30. With today’s extension, there will be more local homeowners, more local construction jobs and a stronger local housing market,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The legislation also cracks down on reported instances of fraud regarding the use of the tax credit as reported by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.#30#
05.11.2010	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal is urging all local charities to file an annual return with the IRS by Monday, May 17, 2010 or risk losing their tax-exempt status. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 stated that most tax-exempt organizations, other than churches or other houses of worship, must file a yearly return or notice with the IRS. If an organization has not filed an annual return in the past three years (even those with gross receipts normally under $25,000), the law provides that it automatically loses its tax exempt status.Loss of exempt status means an organization must file income tax returns and pay income tax, and its contributors will not be able to deduct their donations. Organizations will have to file all over again for recognition as tax exempt with the IRS. The website link below contains a searchable database of local community non-profits who are at risk of losing their non-profit status NEXT MONDAY, MAY 17, 2010, unless they file the required forms. As you will see, these are hundreds from Hampden, Hampshire, Worcester and Middlesex counties.Click here to access the searchable database. “The importance of non-profit organizations in western and central Massachusetts cannot be overstated. Each day, these groups do meaningful work to help the needy, strengthen our communities and improve the quality of life. I am making local charities aware of these changes in the law so they can continue their important function and keep their tax exempt status,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND FOR EDITORS AND REPORTERS:The smallest nonprofits (those with gross receipts normally under $25,000) only need to fill out Form 990-N, also known as the e-Postcard. Completing the e-Postcard requires just the eight items listed below:1. Employer identification number (EIN), also known as a Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)2. Tax year 3. Legal name and mailing address4. Any other names the organization uses5. Name and address of a principal officer6. Web site address if the organization has one7. Confirmation that the organization’s annual gross receipts are normally $25,000 or less8. If applicable, a statement that the organization has terminated or is terminating (going out of business)The IRS has detailed information on who needs to file, as well as Frequently Asked Questions and fact sheets for non-profits in western and central Massachusetts. Links to More Information from the IRS:More info: https://www.irs.gov/charities/article/0,,id=217087,00.html Link to FAQ on the issue: https://www.irs.gov/charities/article/0,,id=221600,00.html The 8 questions: https://www.irs.gov/charities/article/0,,id=218162,00.html You can also find more information from the National Council of Nonprofits on their homepage at www.councilofnonprofits.org, or find your State Association at www.councilofnonprofits.org/salocator to get more local information.#30#
02.04.2010	Neal urges eligible workers to claim tax credit(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard Neal today urged working families in his Congressional district to determine whether they may be eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). The EITC is available to working families with earned incomes of less than $43,279 ($48,279 married filing jointly). The EITC is refundable, offsets any tax liability with the balance provided to the taxpayer in the form of a tax refund. Nationwide last year, over 24 million working families received nearly $50 billion in EITC. In Massachusetts alone, $603 million in refunds were awarded.“During these very hard economic times for working families, I am committed to seeing all eligible families apply for this tax credit. This tax credit was designed specifically for low income workers to remain active in today’s workforce. Nationally, five million families each year are lifted out of poverty due to this tax credit. Last year alone, eligible Massachusetts residents received an average benefit of $1,774.”The IRS has estimated that up to 25% of qualifying workers who fail to claim the EITC miss out on thousands of dollars each year. The IRS states that many of these workers include those who are self-employed, disabled, childless, older, recently unemployed, or living in rural areas.“Even though last year roughly 340,000 Massachusetts families claimed this credit, there are still thousands of families who are unaware that they qualify for these benefits. I encourage those who are eligible, or think they may be, to seek out the free tax assistance offered nearby.”The IRS offers Taxpayer Assistance Centers that will assist people with filing tax returns, including claims for the EITC. For those persons who are unable to seek assistance during the work week, these offices will open on two upcoming Saturdays (February 6th and February 20th) from 9:00 A.M. until 2:00 P.M. at the center located on 1550 Main Street, Springfield, MA. Taxpayers interested in determining whether they are eligible for the EITC, may visit the IRS website at www.irs.gov/eitc.#30#
11.19.2009	Urges women to continue routine screening (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal issued the following statement today after the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force announced controversial new breast cancer screening guidelines this week. The independent panel recommended that women in their 40’s should not have routine mammograms.“Since the U.S. Preventive Task Force announced their new guidelines on breast cancer screening this week, women across the country have expressed deep and genuine concern about how these recommendations may affect their health care coverage. It also raised serious questions about the merits of routine mammograms for women in their 40’s. The new standards have generated a significant amount of confusion and anxiety. But I believe women in western and central Massachusetts should know that the new guidelines do not represent a change in federal health insurance policy. It is simply just one panel’s opinion. Decisions about whether to have a mammogram will continue to be made by a woman and a doctor.I strongly agree with Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius who yesterday urged women to continue routine screening for breast cancer beginning at age 40. It is a fact that mammography has helped save the lives of millions of women in the United States and around the world. The American Cancer Society, the American College of Radiology and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists also continue to recommend annual screening using mammograms for women in their 40’s. Their outspoken support for routine breast cancer screening should not be minimized. Of course, when making any decision regarding health care, it is best to get the advice of your own doctor.As we debate comprehensive health insurance reform in the United States Congress, I will continue to be an advocate for legislation that will give more Americans greater stability, lower costs and quality care. Under health insurance reform, more women will have access to preventative care. And breast cancer screening using mammography for women in their 40’s will continue to be covered.”
11.05.2009	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee Chairman Richard E. Neal (D-MA) delivered the following statement today at a hearing on foreign bank account reporting.“I call this hearing to order. Please take your seats.“I want to welcome everyone to this hearing of the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee on tax avoidance and foreign bank account reporting.“When we last met on this issue in March of this year, we were seeking legislative options to handle the weaknesses exposed by the UBS case. The IRS and Justice Department were struggling to get the names of US accountholders from a bank that had already admitted complicity in a tax avoidance scheme for which they agreed to pay a $780 million fine. The treaty would only provide tax enforcement information if it was a crime under local law and if you had a name.“Negotiations, however, produced a breakthrough and more than 4,500 names were to be divulged. The IRS announced an amnesty program which has thus far netted 7,500 taxpayers with previously hidden overseas accounts seeking to avoid the worst penalties. I congratulate IRS and DOJ on this hard-fought victory.“Of course, the story does not end there. We never knew that tax information exchange would be virtually meaningless, because we didn’t have the names. We didn’t know bank secrecy would prove such an effective shield for evaders even when we knew a crime had been committed.“Following our March hearing, President Obama announced a number of new enforcement provisions as part of his Budget proposal. Under the leadership of Chairman Rangel, we have spent months sorting through those issues and last week, Chairman Rangel and I filed the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of 2009.“This bill creates a new reporting regime for foreign financial institutions with US accountholders, whether they are participants in the existing Qualified Intermediary program or not. This legislation casts a wide net in search of undisclosed accounts and hidden income. It is carefully balanced, and as we will hear from one foreign bank today, it is actually supported by one who will bear the brunt of this new disclosure.“The American boxer Joe Louis once told an opponent who proceeded to outrun him for 12 rounds, ‘You can run, but you can’t hide.’ Louis knocked him out in the 13th round. I believe we are entering that 13th round and it will not be long before those individuals seeking to hide money overseas will be caught. This bill could be enacted by year end.”
11.05.2009	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted to stimulate the local economy by extending unemployment benefits and the first-time homebuyer tax credit. Additional tax relief will be targeted to military families and businesses. The House passed H.R. 3549, the Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009, by a vote of 403-12.“Today the Congress acted in a bipartisan manner to bring much needed relief to millions of Americans. Those individuals in Massachusetts who have lost their jobs due to the economic downturn will now receive an additional 20 weeks of unemployment benefits due to the passage of this bill.By extending the first-time homebuyer’s tax credit, families can qualify for an $8,000 rebate if they purchase a home before April 30, 2010. Not only will our struggling housing market benefit, but our heroic military families will now have an easier time buying a home.And as the lead sponsor of the net operating loss carryback provision, this legislation will help save jobs and protect businesses by providing immediate cash infusion for those concerns that simply can’t access credit.I strongly urge President Obama to sign this bill into law immediately,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
09.14.2009	Background• I rise today to introduce the Supporting Colorectal Examination and Education Now (SCREEN) Act. This legislation will remove barriers to one of the most effective preventive health screenings available, saving lives and reducing health care costs in the process. I urge all of my colleagues to support this important legislation.• The statistics surrounding colon cancer are startling. Colon cancer is the number two cancer killer in the United States. Nearly 50,000 people will die this year from this disease. According to the American Cancer Society (2009 Fact & Figures), of the nearly 50,000 people expected to die from colorectal cancer in 2009, early detection could save more than half. These statistics alone are a tragedy.• But the statistics become even more tragic when one considers that colorectal cancer is highly preventable with appropriate screening. And the disease is detectable, treatable, and curable if found early. According to the American Cancer Society (2009 Facts & Figures), the 5 year survival rate is 90 percent for those diagnosed at an early stage; however, only 40 percent of the cases are diagnosed at the stage.• The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recognizes the preventable nature of this disease and provides its only grade ‘A’ recommendation of cancer screenings for colorectal cancer screens.• Unfortunately, almost half of the Medicare population is not being screened, despite the availability of a Medicare colon cancer screening benefit. According to CMS, Medicare claims indicate that only 52 percent of beneficiaries have had a colorectal cancer test and there is “clearly an opportunity to improve colorectal cancer screening rates in the Medicare population.” (CMS website “overview of colorectal cancer screening”)• Numerous barriers account for this fact, including structural issues in the Medicare program, significant Medicare cuts to providers, and lack of knowledge and preparation among patients.The SCREEN Act• The SCREEN Act is designed to address these barriers and increase the participation of patients in this preventive service. The bill accomplishes this is several main ways.Reducing Patient Barriers• First, the bill would reduce patient barriers to being screened. The legislation would waive Medicare co-insurance for diagnostic and screening colorectal cancer tests in order to increase utilization.• In addition, the bill would provide coverage for a pre-operative visit with a physician prior to a screening colonoscopy. This is the standard of care, but is not currently covered by Medicare.• Finally, under the legislation all Medicare beneficiaries will be notified about the Medicare colorectal cancer screening benefit and reminded of the benefits periodically.• These common sense steps will ensure that more patients are screened and more lives are saved.Provider Quality and Accessibility• We must also ensure that there are adequate numbers of high-quality physicians performing colonoscopies. The legislation reverses years of provider reimbursement cuts by creating a preventive services payment modifier for colorectal cancer screens that is adequate to incentivize physicians to perform colorectal cancer screens. It would base this incentive on a national colorectal cancer screening goal established by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services.• The bill would also require the Secretary to establish a national minimum standard for basic knowledge, training, continuing education and documentation for physicians and facilities. A physician would not be permitted to receive the preventive services modifier if he or she did not meet this standard.State Interventions to Increase Screening• The legislation would also support state-level interventions to increase colorectal cancer screening. The legislation authorizes grants to states for colorectal cancer programs that include: screening to high risk individuals; case management and referrals for treatment; follow up and care for individuals screened; health professional education, training, and skills; and public information and education programs.Information on What Works• Finally, the legislation gathers information on best practices in incentivizing colorectal cancer screening. The bill requires reporting on screening rates and interventions in Medicare Advantage and commissions a study by the Secretary of HHS on levels of coinsurance for screening tests under private plans.Conclusion• More than 50,000 Americans will die from colon cancer this year alone. Ninety percent of these cases might have been prevented. We cannot afford to wait another moment before doing something to eliminate these and other barriers that are standing in the way of preventing colon cancer.• Therefore, I urge all of my colleagues to co-sponsor the Supporting Colorectal Examination and Education Now (SCREEN) Act and support its passage this year.• I thank the Speaker and yield the floor.
08.26.2009	(SPRINGFIELD, MASS) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement on the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy who died at his home last night in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts after a long illness. He was 77 years old."With the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has lost its greatest champion, and the United States of America has lost one of its strongest voices for fairness, equality and justice. Personally, I have lost a treasured friend. From civil rights to health care, from voting rights to Head Start, Ted Kennedy played a significant role in the passage of some of the most important legislation in our lifetime. I have often said his record in the United States Senate is unrivaled. And I believe history will remember him as the most effective individual to ever serve in that institution.The Ted Kennedy his friends and colleagues knew was a kind, considerate, generous, funny, thoughtful and hard working person whose presence lit up the room. His personality and charisma were contagious. He loved his family and spoke about them with great pride. During good times and bad, he was always there with a phone call or a note. When it came to western and central Massachusetts, he always offered to help. He was a master of detail. His ability to work across the aisle was legendary. At the end of the day, Ted Kennedy made a difference in the lives of countless individuals.For the past year he faced one of the most difficult challenges of his life. But he did so with characteristic dignity and grace. Whether it was sailing on Cape Cod in his beloved Mya, or throwing out the first pitch at Fenway Park, he taught us how to live life while facing adversity. And in the process he became an inspiration for us all.I became interested in public service during John F. Kennedy's historic campaign for president nearly 50 years ago. Since then, I have been an outspoken and loyal supporter of the Kennedy family. It has been the honor of a lifetime to call Ted Kennedy my friend. His extraordinary life and legacy will never be forgotten. During this difficult hour, my thoughts and prayers are with Vicki, Kara, Edward Jr, Patrick, Curran, Caroline and the rest of the Kennedy family. May he rest in peace."
08.11.2009	(WASHINGTON) The following is the statement released by Congressman Richard E. Neal following the passing of Mrs. Eunice Kennedy Shriver this morning in Hyannis, Massachusetts.“As a friend and supporter of the Kennedy family for more than 40 years, I am deeply saddened to learn that Eunice Kennedy Shriver has passed away. Having met her on many occasions, she was a remarkably bright and energetic woman who lived a life dedicated to improving the lives of others. I fondly remember her visits western Massachusetts either campaigning for her brother Ted, or for her tireless support of those with intellectual disabilities.Through her groundbreaking work in the Special Olympics, she brought the Kennedy family’s well known commitment to public service to a challenging and different endeavor. But one that was deeply personal. Inspired by her sister Rosemary, she began to raise awareness of the developmentally disabled in the early 1960’s, and continued to champion that cause for the rest of her life. I can say emphatically that Eunice Kennedy Shriver singlehandedly made the Special Olympics the great success it is today. For her efforts, she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. It was a fitting tribute to an extraordinary woman.During this difficult hour, my thoughts and prayers are with the Kennedy and Shriver families. May she rest in peace.”#30#
07.30.2009	Click here to download the technical explanation of the bill. (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, introduced a bill today in the U.S. House of Representatives that would close the reinsurance tax loophole. The following is a transcript of his floor statement.MADAME SPEAKER, today I am pleased to come before the House to introduce legislation ending the use of excessive affiliate reinsurance by foreign insurance groups to strip their U.S. income into tax havens, avoid tax, and gain a competitive advantage over American companies. In the past, I have offered a number of bills to limit offshore tax avoidance. Today’s bill follows on that trend but focuses specifically on one area of the financial services sector.The financial services industry has, like all us, experienced a tough year with the economic upheaval. As businesses realign, merge, and in some cases, cease operations, the advantages of a no- or low-tax jurisdiction from which to operate is tempting. The benefits of being headquartered in a tax haven can be quite significant for a company with investment income over long periods of time. Use of affiliate reinsurance allows foreign-based companies to shift their U.S. reserves and their investment income overseas into tax havens, thereby avoiding U.S. tax.The President has recently suggested a number of proposals tightening tax rules for U.S.-based companies operating overseas. Those proposals deserve a thorough review to assess their merits. But before we consider cracking down on the foreign earnings of U.S. companies, we should make sure we are taxing the earnings of foreign groups that do business in the United States the same way we do for those based here. Ending the tax advantage for foreign-based insurance groups from use of affiliate reinsurance was even a platform issue for candidate Obama last year.There is no doubt that there is a legitimate role for reinsurance. It is a fundamental business technique for risk management and is to be fostered. However, reinsurance among affiliates can serve other purposes as well, including tax avoidance. Just as Congress and Treasury have attempted to measure what is legitimate in debt transactions between affiliates, there have been previous attempts to address the problem of excessive reinsurance between related entities. Unfortunately, as recent data shows, those attempts have been unsuccessful.Since 1996, the amount of reinsurance sent to offshore affiliates has grown dramatically, from a total of $4 billion ceded in 1996 to $33 billion in 2008, including nearly $21 billion to Bermuda affiliates and over $7 billion to Swiss affiliates. Use of this affiliate reinsurance provides foreign insurance groups a significant market advantage over U.S. companies in writing direct insurance here in the U.S. We have seen in the last decade a doubling in the growth of market share of direct premiums written by groups domiciled outside the US, from 5.1% to 10.9%, representing $54 billion in direct premiums written in 2006. Again, Bermuda-based companies represent the bulk of this growth, rising from 0.1% to 4%. And it should be noted that during this time, the percentage of premiums ceded to affiliates of non-U.S. based companies has grown from 13% to 67%. Bermuda is not the only jurisdiction favorable for reinsurance. In fact last year, one company moved from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland citing “the security of a network of tax treaties,” among other benefits.Congress first recognized the problem of excessive reinsurance in 1984 and provided specific authority to Treasury under Section 845 of the tax code to reallocate items and make adjustments in reinsurance transactions in order to prevent tax avoidance or evasion. In 2003, the Treasury Department testified before Congress that the existing mechanisms were not sufficient. In 2004, Congress amended this provision to expand the authority of Treasury to not only reallocate among the parties to a reinsurance agreement but also to recharacterize items within or related to the agreement. Congress specifically cited the concern that these reinsurance transactions were being used inappropriately among U.S. and foreign related parties for tax evasion. Despite this grant of expanded authority, Treasury has still been unable to stem the tide moving offshore.Recently, a coalition of U.S.-based insurance and reinsurance companies has been formed to express their concerns to Congress. With more than 150,000 employees and a trillion dollars in assets here in the U.S., I believe it is a message of concern that we should heed. Last month, they wrote to the leadership of the House and Senate tax-writing committees urging passage of my bill because, as they wrote, “This loophole provides foreign-controlled insurers a significant tax advantage over their domestic competitors in attracting capital to write U.S. business.”That is why I am again filing legislation to disallow deductions for excess reinsurance premiums with respect to U.S. risks paid to affiliated insurance companies that are not subject to U.S. tax. The excess amount will be determined by reference to an industry fraction, by line of business, which will measure the average amount of reinsurance sent to unrelated parties by U.S. companies. The bill allows foreign groups to avoid the deduction disallowance by electing to be treated as a U.S. taxpayer with respect to the income from affiliate reinsurance. Thus, the bill merely restores a level-playing field, treating U.S. insurers and foreign-based insurers alike. The legislation provides Treasury the authority to carry out or prevent the avoidance of the provisions of this bill.My colleagues may be thinking that this sounds similar to another provision in the code, and they would be right. The tax code currently tries to limit the amount of earnings stripping – that is, sending U.S. profits offshore through inflated interest deductions – by disallowing the interest deduction over a certain threshold. In the reinsurance context, U.S. affiliates of foreign based reinsurance entities may be sending offshore excessive amounts of reinsurance to strip those premiums out of the purview of the U.S. tax system. My bill limits the deduction for those premiums to the extent the reinsurance to a related party exceeds the industry average.I hope that in the coming weeks, my colleagues and experts in the industry will carefully review this new proposal and provide constructive commentary on it. A fuller technical explanation of the bill will be posted on my website, which will provide some background on the industry as well as a technical description of the bill. Madame Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to address the House on this important matter and I assure my colleagues that I will continue my efforts to combat offshore tax avoidance, regardless of what industry is impacted.
07.17.2009	Bill would lower costs, provide more choices, and ensure access to quality, affordable care (WASHINGTON, D.C.) The House Committee on Ways and Means today passed H.R. 3200, the America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, by a vote of 23-18. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), reform provisions in the bill will cover 97 percent of Americans. These provisions will be merged with provisions currently under consideration in the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Education and Labor for consideration by the full House of Representatives in the coming weeks.“This is an exciting day in the history of this Committee and the Congress as we tackle the challenges of reforming America’s health care system,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY). “America is ready for reform, the rising cost of health care has been draining the economy and the pocketbooks of American families for too long. Today the Committee approved legislation that will encourage competition in the health insurance marketplace, control costs and improve access to quality affordable care. This uniquely American solution will put patients first, make critical investments in primary care and nurses, and reform the health care delivery system so that we can build a healthier, more productive economy.”“Today’s vote is another historic step toward enacting health care reform this year,” said Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark. “I look forward reconciling our changes with the other committees, and voting on the floor of the House to provide affordable, quality health care to all Americans.” Please click here to view Chairman Stark’s opening statement.The bill, endorsed by the American Medical Association, and supported by the AARP along with other organizations, includes important reforms such as the creation of health insurance exchange, a public health insurance option to compete with private insurers, and new rules to prohibit abusive practices by private insurers. The bill strengthens Medicare and Medicaid, makes critical delivery system reforms and includes subsidies to make insurance more affordable for individuals and small businesses. The bill also makes key reforms to the health care delivery system to help “bend the curve” and control long-term health care costs.CBO has issued a preliminary estimate of the new reform provisions at a net cost of $1 trillion over ten years. These reforms will be fully paid for through payment and delivery system reform in Medicare and Medicaid that will result in substantial cost savings, as well as a surcharge that will affect only the wealthiest one percent of households, and only four percent of small businesses.The key principles of legislation include, among other things:Increasing choice and competitionFirst, the bill will protect and improve consumers’ choices.· If an individual likes their current plan, they will be able to keep it. · For individuals who either aren’t currently covered, or wanted to enroll in a new health care plan, the proposal will establish a health care exchange where consumers can select from a menu of affordable, quality health care options: either a new public health insurance option or a plan offered by private insurers. · This new marketplace will reduce costs, create competition that leads to better care for every American, and keep private insurers honest. Patients and doctors will have control over decisions about their health care, instead of insurance companies.Giving Americans peace of mind Second, the legislation will ensure that Americans have portable, secure health care plans – so that they won’t lose care if their employer drops their plan or they lose their job.Every American who receives coverage through the exchange will have a plan that includes standardized, comprehensive and quality health care benefits. It will end increases in premiums or denials of care based on pre-existing conditions, race, or gender, and limited age rating (2:1).The proposal will also eliminate co-pays for preventive care, cap out-of-pocket expenses, and guarantee catastrophic coverage that protects every American from bankruptcy.Improving quality of care for every AmericanThird, the legislation will ensure that Americans of all ages, from young children to retirees have access to greater quality of care by focusing on prevention, wellness, and strengthening programs that work.The proposal guarantees that every child in America will have health care coverage that includes dental and vision benefits.It will provide better preventative and wellness care. Every health care plan offered through the exchange will cover preventative care.By growing the health care workforce, the proposal will ensure that more doctors and nurses are available to provide quality care as more Americans get coverage.The proposal strengthens Medicare and Medicaid so that seniors, people with disabilities and low-income Americans receive better quality of care and see lower prescription drug costs and out-of-pocket expenses.Ensuring shared responsibility Fourth, the bill will ensure that individuals, employers, and the federal government all share responsibility for a quality and affordable health care system.· Employers who currently offer coverage will be able to continue offering coverage to workers. Employers who don’t currently offer coverage could choose to cover their workers or pay a penalty. · All individuals would be required to get coverage, either through their employer or the exchange, or pay a penalty. · The federal government will provide affordability credits, available on a sliding scale for low- and middle-income individuals and families to make premiums affordable and reduce cost-sharing.Protecting consumers and reducing waste, fraud, and abuse Fifth, the legislation will put the interests of consumers first, protect them from any problems in getting and keeping health care coverage, and reduce waste, fraud, and abuse.· The proposal provides complete transparency in plans in the health exchange so that consumers have the clear, complete information needed to select the plan that best meets their needs. · Additionally, it establishes Consumer Advocacy Offices as part of the exchange in order to protect consumers, answer questions, and assist with any problems related to their plans. · The proposal will identify and eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse by simplifying paperwork and other administrative burdens. Patients, doctors, nurses, insurance companies, providers, and employers will all encounter a streamlined, less confusing, more consumer friendly system.For more information on the bill, including bill text, summary, information on revenue provisions, and fact sheets on the reform provisions in the bill, click here.###
07.16.2009	House Ways and Means Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee Chairman Richard E. Neal (D-MA) announced today that the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures will hold a hearing on possible long-term measures to finance the Highway Trust Fund, including specific Member proposals that have been introduced in the 111th Congress. The hearing will take place on Thursday, July 23, 2009, in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 10:00 a.m.Oral testimony at this hearing will be limited to Members of the House of Representatives and other invited witnesses. However, any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Committee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing.FOCUS OF THE HEARING:The hearing provides Members the opportunity to speak on behalf of specific proposals they have introduced that would affect the long-term funding for the Highway Trust Fund. Following the Members’ testimony, invited witnesses will comment on those and other proposals.BACKGROUND:The current authorization of surface transportation programs expires on September 30, 2009. Federal highway and transit expenditures are derived from the Highway Trust Fund. The Highway Trust Fund was established in the Highway Revenue Act of 1956 (P.L. 84-627) to meet certain financial obligations incurred for the construction of the interstate highway system and other federally financed highways, and was codified in Section 9503 of the Internal Revenue Code by the Highway Revenue Act of 1982 (P.L. 97-424). The Trust Fund was designed to be a self-financing mechanism using new and existing highway user taxes.Recently, the balance of the Highway Trust Fund has fallen dramatically. Last year, $8 billion was transferred from the general fund of the U.S. Treasury to the Highway Account. In order to guarantee long-term stability for surface transportation programs, any long-term reauthorization must also include a stable source of revenue to support program funding.In announcing the hearing, Chairman Neal stated, “An efficient and functional transportation network is crucial to maintaining the livelihood of the American people and the growth of the American economy. This hearing will address options before the Congress to provide the necessary long-term funding for investment in an economically sound and environmentally responsible way.”DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS:Please Note: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit for the hearing record must follow the appropriate link on the hearing page of the Committee website and complete the informational forms. From the Committee homepage, https://waysandmeans.house.gov , select “Committee Hearings.” Select the hearing for which you would like to submit, and click on the link entitled, “Click here to provide a submission for the record.” Once you have followed the online instructions, complete all informational forms and click “submit” on the final page. ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by close of business Thursday, August 6, 2009. Finally, please note that due to the change in House mail policy, the U.S. Capitol Police will refuse sealed-package deliveries to all House Office Buildings. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-1721.FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS:The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee.1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word or WordPerfect format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and submitters are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record.2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee.3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons, and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone, and fax numbers of each witness.Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov.
03.24.2009	House Ways and Means Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee Chairman Richard E. Neal (D-MA) announced today that the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures will hold a hearing on issues involving banking secrecy practices and wealthy American taxpayers. The hearing will take place on Tuesday, March 31, 2009, in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 10:00 a.m.Oral testimony at this hearing will be limited to invited witnesses. However, any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Committee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing.FOCUS OF THE HEARING:The hearing will focus on limitations of the withholding taxes imposed by the United States on U.S. source investment earnings received by foreign persons, the Qualified Intermediary (QI) program established by the IRS to enforce those withholding taxes, the limitations of our tax treaties, and the extent to which these may have contributed to non-compliance by U.S. taxpayers. It will use the current UBS case as an example of the problems in the existing system.BACKGROUND:The United States imposes withholding taxes when U.S. source investment earnings are paid to a foreign person. Those withholding taxes were largely designed to collect tax on income earned in the United States even though the income is earned by a foreign person not subject to the jurisdiction of our laws. Those withholding taxes also play a role in preventing non-compliance by U.S. persons holding investment assets in accounts overseas.The IRS has established the QI program that authorizes foreign financial institutions to collect withholding taxes on behalf of the U.S. government. The program was implemented to improve compliance for tax withholding and reporting on U.S. source income that flows offshore through foreign financial institutions. The recent UBS case indicates that there are problems with the QI program that permitted tax avoidance by U.S. persons. Further, even with jurisdictions in which the United States has a tax treaty, effective information exchange can sometimes be undermined by local laws providing for banking secrecy that conflict with U.S. law.According to the most recent tax year data available (2003), more than $293 billion in U.S. source income was sent to individuals and businesses residing abroad. Much of this money flows through U.S. withholding agents, but some also flows through QI’s. Both U.S. withholding agents and QI’s are responsible for withholding taxes, and in the absence of proper identification, must do backup withholding. Recently, the GAO found that withholding on these accounts was much lower.In announcing the hearing, Chairman Neal stated, "This will be our first hearing to address the troublesome issue of international tax avoidance. The global economic and financial crisis has put pressure on these international jurisdictions to be less secretive and more cooperative. The United States and other countries simply can no longer afford to lose billions of dollars each year in potential revenue to these secrecy jurisdictions. I expect this hearing to be the start of a process that leads to bold and decisive action being taken to end opportunities for tax avoidance through foreign accounts.”DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS:Please Note: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit for the hearing record must follow the appropriate link on the hearing page of the Committee website and complete the informational forms. From the Committee homepage, https://waysandmeans.house.gov , select “Committee Hearings.” Select the hearing for which you would like to submit, and click on the link entitled, “Click here to provide a submission for the record.” Once you have followed the online instructions, complete all informational forms and click “submit” on the final page. ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by close of business Tuesday, April 14, 2009. Finally, please note that due to the change in House mail policy, the U.S. Capitol Police will refuse sealed-package deliveries to all House Office Buildings. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-1721.FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS:The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee.1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word or WordPerfect format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and submitters are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record.2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee.3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons, and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone, and fax numbers of each witness.Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov.
03.12.2009	CCIA Hosts Press Conference with Guest Speaker Congressman Richard Neal to Promote Free Tax Help for MA Taxpayers What: The Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA) will host a press conference on Friday, March 13, with guest speaker Congressman Richard Neal (D–MA) at American International College, to announce the availability of the IRS and Massachusetts Free File Alliances, public-private partnerships aimed at helping lower and moderate income taxpayers – including those eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit, active-duty military, students, and seniors – electronically prepare and e-file their federal and state tax return for FREE.Free File is a partnership between the IRS (www.irs.gov), 21 state tax agencies (including Massachusetts - www.mass.gov/dor, choose the e-filing information link, and then click on the Massachusetts Free File Alliance link) and the nation’s electronic tax software manufacturers, including Intuit, the maker of TurboTax Freedom Edition (www.taxfreedom.com).Following the news conference, please join us for an hour-long hands-on training workshop featuring TurboTax Freedom Edition (www.taxfreedom.com). Outreach ideas and materials for informing eligible taxpayers are available now at www.intuitempowers.com.** Media outlets are strongly encouraged to attend. ** ** Please post in your community events calendar and/or daybook. **Who: - Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA) - Vince Maniaci, president of American International College - Bernie McKay, Intuit Financial Freedom Foundation - Chris Long, Computer and Communications Industry Association When: Friday, March 13, 2009 10:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. - press conference (Hour-long TurboTax Freedom Edition training workshop immediately following the press conference - media is strongly encouraged to stay for the training)Where: American International College Courniotes Hall- Health Science Building 1st Floor Computer Lab 1000 State Street (Corner of State and Homer Streets) Springfield, MA Contact: Elana Stein, (202) 777-3517 William Tranghese (202) 225-5601
01.25.2009	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal announced that millions of dollars of federal funds for western and central Massachusetts have been included in the $410 billion Omnibus Appropriations bill that passed today in the U.S. House of Representatives. The legislation, which includes nine spending bills Congress had not approved, will finish appropriations work for FY09, which started October 1, 2008. This funding is separate from the $787 billion that was included in the stimulus package that President Obama signed into law last week. The Omnibus bill makes investments that offer short term help for our economic challenges and long term solutions towards a future of stability, recovery and prosperity.“Today’s vote on the Omnibus bill will bring federal assistance to many worthy projects in western and central Massachusetts. This legislation will make investments in cutting edge science, promote clean water, redevelop neighborhoods and encourage continued education. From the Pioneer Valley to the Blackstone Valley, these funds will help make our communities a better place to live, work and visit. I am pleased that so many important projects from our region will be funded from the appropriations bill that passed today,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.A list of Appropriations funds for the Second Congressional District of Massachusetts is included below. More than $11,000,000 will be invested in the region (the Silvio Conte Wildlife Refuge enters parts of CT and NH) with the passage of today’s legislation.APPROPRIATIONS FUNDS FOR SECOND CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT ON FY09 OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILLTransportation and Housing and Urban Development$380,000 for the construction and renovation of Samuel May House and Leicester Visitor’s Center $950,000 for the Spring and Elliot Street Improvements, Springfield, MA $95,000 for Northampton, MA for the demolition, planning, design and renovation of an adult learning center.Labor, Health and Human Services$571,000 Pioneer Valley Life Sciences, Baystate Medical Center, Springfield, MA for facilities and equipment $143,000 Mercy Medical Center for facilities and equipment $285,000 for Harrington Memorial Hospital, Southbridge, MA for facilities and equipmentCommerce, Justice, State$500,000 for Hampden County Sheriff’s Department’s Integrated Re-entry Program – Department of Justice $250,000 for Phoenix House, Springfield, MA Drug Treatment technology Enhancement InitiativeInterior$1,000,000 for the Pioneer Valley Planning Commission for the Connecticut River Combined Sewer Overflow Projects. STAG Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Program, EPA $3,815,000 for the Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge, Fish and Wildlife Service, Land Acquisition. (Joint request with CT and NH Members also).Energy and Water$475,750 for the Pioneer Valley Life Sciences Institute BioMedical Research, Department of Energy. $2,664,200 for an Ethanol Plant in MA and CT, Department of Energy. Milford Pond Restoration Project, Corps of Engineers, Section 206, priority project. (No dollar amount listed in the bill)Congressman Neal also secured federal funds in FY09 in the Continuing Resolution that became law on September 30, 2008. Those appropriations were:· $943,000 for Westover Air Force Reserve Base in Chicopee for a Joint Service Lodging Facility · $1.2 million for Kollmorgen in Northampton for HALO, a 360 Degree Imaging Sensor for US Navy submarines#30#
01.22.2009	Author of two important provisions included in final package (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, today welcomed the passage of the economic stimulus proposal by the full House Ways and Means Committee. He said the package, the American Recovery & Reinvestment Bill, “will save and create jobs, provide needed tax relief to millions of Americans and help restore our economy.” He was also pleased that two provisions that he championed were contained in the final bill including the elimination of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) on all private activity bonds (PABs). Neal also advocated a provision that will allow financial institutions to purchase and hold more state and local bonds. He co-authored this language with Congressman Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the Committee on Financial Services.“I am pleased that the 111th Congress will take up these measures and include them in the economic recovery package. The AMT has been a burden for years on state and local governments. In these difficult financial times, lifting the AMT burden on these projects will bring much needed relief to cities and states and create new jobs. When this package is signed into law, banks will be allowed to purchase more state and local bonds, allowing these local governments to borrow at lower costs. These two measures will provide assistance that is greatly needed to finance important public works projects all across America.” said Neal.The AMT legislation has received the support of several state and local governments as well as many associations. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Associations declared that Neal’s bill would “spur demand for private-activity bonds and lower the financing costs for state and local issuers.” The Airports Consultants Council remarked that the Neal legislation would “benefit the traveling public by providing funding for projects that will enhance capacity and safety at airports.” And the National Association of Water Companies said the Neal provision would “help utilities continue to attract capital for environmental infrastructure improvement amidst the current financial crisis at a reasonable cost to customers.”The bipartisan Neal AMT provision, H.R. 425, was introduced in the 111th Congress and is co-sponsored by Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI). Congressman Neal is recognized as the leader in U.S. House of Representatives to reform or repeal the AMT. The Neal-Frank proposal, H.R. 6333, was originally introduced in the 110th Congress.
09.29.2008	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal released the following statement today after the financial rescue package was defeated in the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 228-205. The Bush administration and the leadership of the United States Congress will now determine how to move forward with a new plan to help solve the current economic crisis."I voted for the bipartisan financial rescue package today because of my concern about the stability of the financial markets. It is clear our country is experiencing an economic crisis, and I believed that decisive action was necessary to protect and preserve our troubled financial institutions. And it was equally important to protect the investments of our nation's citizens. The compromise plan that was reached included tough independent oversight and transparency; limited excessive compensation for CEO's; contained strong taxpayer protections and sought improvements to prevent home foreclosures. The rescue effort would have helped families, homeowners, investors, community banks and small businesses. It was designed to protect the interests of those Americans living on Main Street. Unfortunately, the legislation failed, but the economic uncertainty remains. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to pass bipartisan legislation that will rescue our economy and stabilize our financial markets. The American people expect and deserve no less," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
09.18.2008	DOWNLOAD Technical Explanation of Bill (PDF)(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, introduced legislation today that would end the advantage of offshore reinsurance entities over American companies. The following is a copy of his floor statement.Introduction of Reinsurance Tax Legislation By Rep. Richard Neal September 18, 2008MADAME SPEAKER, today I am pleased to come before the House to introduce legislation ending the advantage of offshore reinsurance entities over American companies. In the past, I have offered a number of bills to limit offshore tax avoidance and have even previously offered bipartisan legislation on the issue of foreign reinsurance specifically. I am here today to try a different approach to tackle the problem of excessive reinsurance to related foreign entities and I hope my colleagues will join me in this timely effort.Now, some may question why it would be timely to offer this legislation considering that one of the largest US insurance companies was just bailed out by the Fed. I think it is precisely the time to shore up the U.S. market. Already, the speculation has begun as to what parts of AIG will be sold off. A leading insurance industry research entity, Dowling & Partners, posed the question yesterday: “Will the offshore tax issue be highlighted once again, with much of AIG’s business potentially moving to competitors offshore?” With the advantage of a no- or low-tax jurisdiction from which to operate, you can bet that foreign competitors are already eyeing purchases of the AIG business.There is no doubt that there is a legitimate role for reinsurance. It is a fundamental business technique for risk management and is to be fostered. But just as Congress and Treasury have attempted to measure what is legitimate in sharing debt and earnings between affiliates, there have been attempts to appropriately characterize reinsurance between related entities. Unfortunately, as recent data shows, those attempts have been unsuccessful.Since 1996, the amount of reinsurance sent to offshore affiliates has grown dramatically, from a total of $4 billion ceded in 1996 to $34 billion in 2007, including $19 billion alone to Bermuda affiliates. These insurance profits are shuttled out of the U.S. and then the investment income on those profits is also sheltered from U.S. taxes. It is easy to see why foreign reinsurers, with such a tax benefit, enjoy a significant market advantage.Now we are beginning to see a new problem: the offshore affiliates are writing direct insurance here in the U.S. We have seen in the last decade a doubling in the growth of market share of direct premiums written by groups domiciled outside the US, from 5.1% to 10.9%, representing $54 billion in direct premiums written in 2006. Again, Bermuda-based companies represent the bulk of this growth, rising from 0.1% to 4%. And it should be noted that during this time, the percentage of premiums ceded to affiliates of non-U.S. based companies has grown from 13% to 67%. Bermuda is not the only jurisdiction favorable for reinsurance, and in fact earlier this year, one company moved from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland citing “the security of a network of tax treaties,” among other benefits.Congress first recognized the problem of excessive reinsurance in 1984 and provided specific authority to Treasury under Section 845 of the tax code to reallocate items and make adjustments in reinsurance transactions in order to prevent tax avoidance or evasion. In 2003, the Treasury Department testified before Congress that the existing mechanisms were not sufficient. In 2004, Congress amended this provision to expand the authority of Treasury to not only reallocate among the parties to a reinsurance agreement but also to recharacterize items within or related to the agreement. Congress specifically cited the concern that these reinsurance transactions were being used inappropriately among U.S. and foreign related parties for tax evasion. Despite this grant of expanded authority, Treasury has still been unable to stem the tide moving offshore.Recently, a coalition of U.S.-based insurance and reinsurance companies has been formed to express their concerns to Congress. With more than 150,000 employees and a trillion dollars in assets here in the U.S., I believe it is a message of concern that we should heed.That is why I am filing legislation today to disallow deductions for excess reinsurance premiums with respect to U.S. risks paid to affiliated insurance companies that are not subject to U.S. tax. The excess amount will be determined by reference to an industry fraction, by line of business, which will measure the average amount of reinsurance sent to unrelated parties. The legislation provides Treasury the authority to carry out or prevent the avoidance of the provisions of this bill.My colleagues may be thinking that this sounds similar to another provision in the code, and they would be right. The tax code currently tries to limit the amount of earnings stripping – that is, sending U.S. profits offshore through inflated interest deductions – by disallowing the interest deduction over a certain threshold. In the reinsurance context, U.S. affiliates of foreign based reinsurance entities may be sending offshore excessive amounts of reinsurance to strip those premiums out of the purview of the U.S. tax system. My bill limits the deduction for those premiums to the extent the reinsurance to a related party exceeds the industry average.I hope that in the coming weeks, my colleagues and experts in the industry will carefully review this new proposal and provide constructive commentary on it. A fuller technical explanation of the bill will be posted on my website, which will provide some background on the industry as well as a technical description of the bill. Madame Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to address the House on this important matter and I assure my colleagues that I will continue my efforts to combat offshore tax avoidance, regardless of what industry is impacted.
06.25.2008	Will provide tax relief to more than 25 million families (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed legislation that would provide tax relief for more 25 million Americans by protecting them from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). Congressman Neal has for many years lead the effort in the U.S House of Representatives to reform or repeal the AMT.“There is some urgency to the bill we have passed today. If we do not approve this patch soon, more than 25 million American families will be forced to pay higher taxes. And 84% of those 25 million earn less than $200,000 a year.In my district alone, the number of families paying AMT will jump from 7,920 to 69,919. Approximately 21,549 of those families earn between $75,000 and $100,000 annually. Is this really the taxpayer the AMT was meant to hit? Relief from the AMT has been an annual pilgrimage for Congress. But we simply have to do it.However, this tax relief costs more than $60 billion. To put that figure into context, we currently spend that amount every 4 months in Iraq. We cannot keep passing the cost of war and the cost of tax cuts onto our children and grandchildren. It is simply unacceptable.So we will ask hedge fund managers and private equity titans to pay the same rate of taxes we all pay on our income. We ask the Big Five oil companies to forgo part of the recent tax incentives the Congress enacted for domestic companies. Does Exxon really need a tax cut to produce oil here in the United States? At $140 a barrel, I think the American people feel that’s more than enough incentive.Some of our Republican colleagues will urge us to drop all the offsets since President Bush has indicated he will veto the bill. But even the Republican head of the National Association of manufacturers called our offsets the “least painful” of any. At some point, they have to choose fiscal sanity over party fealty.I am pleased that this bill passed with such a comfortable margin today,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.#30#
06.19.2008	Thousands of federal stimulus payments still unclaimed (WASHINGTON) Following a hearing on the status of the economic stimulus payments in the House Ways and Means Committee today, Congressman Richard E. Neal is urging local veterans and retirees to claim their stimulus checks. The Internal Revenue Service and the Social Security Administration had representatives tell members of the tax-writing committee that million of Americans eligible for a stimulus rebate have still not filed claims. They also outlined how these payments can be claimed.To receive a rebate check this year, eligible taxpayers must file an income tax return for the 2007 tax year by October 15, 2008. There are special filing requirements for taxpayers who normally are not required to file an income tax return (“ESP filers). The IRS estimates that 130 million economic stimulus payments will be sent to eligible taxpayers, including ESP filers. For returns filed by April 15th, economic stimulus payments that were direct deposited have been completed, and, by July 11th, the remaining checks are scheduled to be mailed. Through June 5th, about 67 million economic stimulus payments have been made.“In these times of high gas prices and economic uncertainty, this much needed payment can help a lot of families in our region. There are more than 150,000 families in Massachusetts, and more than 4,000 in Springfield alone, who are eligible but have simply not asked for their checks. For veterans and people living on Social Security, this request for a stimulus rebate is simple, quick and easy,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The IRS has identified 5.2 million retirees and veterans beneficiaries who are potentially eligible for the stimulus payments, including many who have not been filing tax returns. This summer, the IRS will send special letters explaining eligibility and how to claim rebates. The letter will include a sample tax form and an actual tax form to be completed and mailed to the IRS. The IRS also offers Tax Payer Assistance Centers in order to assist with filing for stimulus payments. In western Massachusetts, the center is located at 1550 Main Street in downtown Springfield. Those who qualify for a rebate will receive a minimum payment of $300 ($600 for a married couple), plus $300 for each qualifying child.
04.09.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, today supported Committee passage of the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008, H.R 5720. Introduced by Ways & Means Chairman, Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), the bill provides tax credits to first-time homebuyers, improves access to low-income housing and allows families to deduct property taxes as well as other provisions. During committee consideration of HR 5720, Neal successfully offered an amendment that would increase the beginning of the phase-out of eligibility for the first-time homebuyer tax credit for joint filers to $140,000 (up from $110,000). “As the foreclosure crisis continues across America, I was proud to support a bill to help those most in need of help. Springfield alone has already had over 300 foreclosures this year and will have over 2,000 mortgages reset to higher rates through 2009, which could mean many more foreclosures to come. Clearly, Congress needs to do more, but today’s tax bill was an important first step for homeowners and the housing industry in general,” said Neal. To address the growing foreclosure rate nationwide, it is expected that HR 5720 will be combined with legislation from the House Financial Services Committee and voted upon by the full House in the coming weeks. This legislation will assist in bringing stability to the troubled housing market and help families purchase their first home as well as improve access to affordable housing. During the markup, Neal offered an amendment to change the provision for first-time homebuyers so that the income level at which married couples begin to phase out of the credit is twice that of single taxpayers. “I was pleased that the Committee accepted my amendment to eliminate any marriage penalty in the nationwide first-time homebuyer credit. It has been estimated that my amendment will mean an additional 500,000-700,000 married couples buying their first house will be eligible for this important tax credit. This provision was highly sought after by both homebuyers and the housing and real estate industry as that industry has really suffered in these tough economic times,”said Neal. Below are the main provisions included in the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008: • First-time homebuyer tax credit to assist in making a down payment on a home. This would provide individuals and families with a refundable credit (equivalent to an interest-free loan) of ten percent of the purchase price of their home (up to $7,500). Taxpayers would be required to repay any amount received under this provision to the government over 15 years in equal installments. The credit will begin to phase out for taxpayers with adjusted gross income in excess of $70,000 ($140,000 in the case of a joint return). • Additional standard deduction for real property taxes to help homeowners who claim the standard deduction by allowing them to claim an additional standard deduction of up to $350 ($700 for joint filers) for State and local real property taxes. This provision applies for 2008. • Temporary increase in low-income housing tax credit and simplification of the credit. The bill would increase the current limit of the credit from $2.00 for each person residing in a state by an additional 20 cents per resident. This will help put builders to work to create new options for families seeking affordable housing alternatives. The credit will also be simplified to improve its effectiveness. • Temporary increase in mortgage revenue bonds to allow for the issuance of an additional $10 billion of tax-exempt bonds to refinance subprime loans, provide loans to first-time homebuyers and to finance the construction of low-income rental housing.
02.12.2008	Many working families still eligible for tax credit (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today urged working families in western and central Massachusetts to determine whether they are eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). The EITC is available primarily for low-income working families, but households earning as much as $39,000 may also be eligible. More than 22 million taxpayers nationally received approximately $43.7 billion in EITC in 2007. This year, the maximum credit for a family of two or more children is $4,716.“I am doing everything I can to get all working families the tax credits they have earned. I believe the true purpose of the EITC was to encourage low-income workers to remain active in the workforce. The IRS has estimated that about 20% of eligible families nationally are still unaware that they qualify for the EITC. In my district alone, there are as many as 10,000 families that should be claiming credits up to $4,000 per household,” said Congressman Neal.During the 2007 filing season, there were 40,866 EITC returns in the 2nd Congressional District totaling $72,375,918. Of that number, 61% used a paid preparer, and only 3% used the free IRS taxpayer assistance. Based on these numbers, 25,111 recipients had to pay for taxpayer assistance.“Unfortunately, this tax credit for working families is very complex, which is why many of the recipients had to pay a professional for assistance. I strongly encourage those who are eligible, or who think they are eligible, to seek out the free assistance offered locally,” said Neal.The IRS offers regional Taxpayer Assistance Centers that help people with filing their tax returns, including claims for the EITC. On Saturday, February 16, the IRS center will be located in the Federal Building, 1550 Main Street, Springfield. The office will be open to the public from 8:30am to 12:30pm.Taxpayers interested in determining whether they are eligible for the EITC may also visit the IRS website at www.irs.gov/eitc. Those taxpayers who do qualify can also use the website to find other taxpayer assistance locations and use the IRS Free File Program.
12.19.2007	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, made the following statement on the floor of the US House of Representatives today in support of legislation he has filed that will address the taxation of prepaid derivative contracts. According to Neal’s remarks, “the appropriate tax treatment of financial products is ever-evolving, just as the market for these products is. Occasionally, Congress or Treasury must step in and clarify how these new offerings should be treated under the tax code. And my bill today will do that.” For Congressman Neal’s full statement, please see below…Introduction of Prepaid Derivatives BillRemarks by Rep. Richard NealDecember 19, 2007 Madame Speaker, I rise today to introduce legislation addressing the taxation of prepaid derivative contracts. The appropriate tax treatment of financial products is ever-evolving, just as the market for these products is. Occasionally, Congress or Treasury must step in and clarify how these new offerings should be treated under the tax code. And my bill today will do that.Recently, a new product called Exchange Traded Notes, has caught the attention of regulators and investors. The main benefit of these notes is their tax treatment. Issuers have advised buyers that these interests receive almost unlimited tax deferral on any gain earned. And, they advise that even when the gain is recognized at the point that the note is sold or redeemed, it is taxed as long-term capital gain and not ordinary income. These notes can run as long as 30 years and track an exchange rate, index, or commodity.So, with almost unlimited tax deferral, it seems that many other investments would pale in comparison. Already, many investors have caught on. These exchange-traded notes have garnered $4 billion of investment in a very short period of time. Some argue that this tax treatment is justified, as holders of these notes have some credit risk. If the issuer goes under, the holder may not get paid.But this favorable tax treatment has not gone without notice. In a Tax Notes magazine article aptly titled, “Too Good to Be True?” one practitioner called this tax treatment, “The Wild West of the tax law.” And one columnist in The Washington Post likened this new tax sheltering opportunity as opening “Pandora’s Tax Box.” It is important to note that this favorable tax treatment is premised on the opinion of one law firm.More recently, Treasury has stepped in to clarify that Exchange Traded Notes tied to foreign currencies are debt and do generate taxable income to investors. In a companion notice, Treasury asked for comments on whether holders of other prepaid forward contracts should be required to accrue income during the term of the contract. It is possible that Treasury will produce guidance providing appropriate clarity in this market, but in the interim, I believe legislative action is warranted.The legislation that I am filing today provides rules for the tax treatment of prepaid derivative contracts, which includes Exchange Traded Notes. Holders of such instruments will be required to include as interest income each year an amount determined by reference to a short-term interest rate. The basis in such contract would be adjusted by any income inclusion so that at disposition, any gain or loss would be properly accounted for just as it would be with any other investment receiving annual payments.In past Congresses, I have pursued legislation to curb vehicles providing unlimited tax deferral to investors, such as swap funds. I believe it is important that our tax laws reach instances where interest is earned or gain recognized, especially where the products are complex or lack transparency. The legislation that I am filing today takes another step in that direction. But I welcome constructive comments from practitioners on both sides of this issue. Above all, if we amend the tax code, we want to get it right the first time.I look forward to discussing this complex issue with my colleagues in the New Year and seeking their support for this bill.CLICK HERE for Background on Neal Prepaid Derivatives Bill (PDF)
12.19.2007	Claims it is the perfect ‘stocking stuffer’ (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today urged taxpayers in his Congressional district to check a list posted on his website which contains the names of local individuals with refund checks held at the IRS. These refunds, totaling $3 million for state of Massachusetts, are usually returned to the IRS because the taxpayer has moved and the postal service will not forward mail from the IRS.“At this time of the year, finding a lost refund check can really brighten a holiday season. Some of these refunds may be small “stocking stuffers,” but with the average lost refund at more than $1,300, the whole family can expect a merrier Christmas.”Nationwide, the IRS is looking for 115,478 taxpayers with undeliverable refunds worth about $110 million. In Massachusetts, which has seen an increase in lost refunds of 22% over last year, there are 2,190 taxpayers due almost $3 million. In order to claim these lost refunds, taxpayers must file a Form 8822 Change of Address form, available by calling 1-800-TAX-FORM or from the IRS website (www.irs.gov), see “Where’s My Refund?” feature.“As a Senior Member of the tax-writing Committee in Congress, I want to see our tax system work as efficiently as possible. And while the number of taxpayers with lost refunds is very small, at only one in a thousand, it still pains me to think that someone has money waiting for them at the IRS.”Click on document below to view lost refund list for MA 2nd Congressional District. CLICK HERE to download the list (PDF)
11.09.2007	New legislation provides tax relief for 67,000 households in Central and Western Massachusetts (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, voted for legislation today that offers more than $50 billion in middle-class tax relief and saves 67,612 households in central and western Massachusetts from paying higher taxes under the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). Neal has been a leader in Congress for years to repeal or reform the AMT which was originally designed to ensure very wealthy individuals were paying their fair share of income tax. The AMT tax now threatens to impact middle class families and raise taxes on 23 million Americans if Congress does not take action this year.The Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, which passed the House today, protects 23 million middle-class families from being hit by the AMT and includes a series of other provisions that provide tax relief for working families. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, Neal also managed a large portion of the Democratic floor time during today’s debate. The following is a copy of Congressman Neal’s remarks in support of this important legislation:“Madame Speaker, I rise in support of this bill providing tax relief and protection to millions of working families. Without an extension of these important tax provisions, there will be a real impact back home.Without an extension, 94,577 Massachusetts Teachers who took the deduction for out-of–pocket classroom supplies, totaling $23 million in expenditures, would lose that important deduction.Without this bill, 121,063 Massachusetts families who took the tuition deduction for higher education costs, totaling $317 million in expenditures, would lose this incentive for higher learning.If we don’t pass this bill, 1,003 businesses in Massachusetts that took the Research and Development tax credit totaling $10 million, would lose that credit.We must pass this bill so that 192 low-income military families in Massachusetts who claimed the Earned Income Tax Credit on income earned while in a combat zone, totally $2 million in earnings, will keep that credit.Further, Massachusetts school districts, which received $6.5 million in bond authority for school construction, stand to lose that assistance without this bill.And let me conclude with the impact on middle income families from the AMT. If the AMT patch is not enacted this year, Massachusetts will increase from 125,684 taxpayers subject to AMT, to 770,336 for the 2007 tax year. In my district alone, this means an increase from 7,361 to 67,612. And half of those 60,000 paying AMT this year will earn between $100,000 and $200,000. Another third earns between $75,000 and $100,000.This is a middle-class tax relief bill. I urge its adoption.The bill also provides relief to workers unfairly caught by the Alternative Minimum Tax on Incentive Stock Options (ISO’s). In prior Congresses, I have filed legislation to eliminate or lessen the burden on the AMT on these workers who can be hit with taxes on phantom gain that can never be repaid. Last year, Congress enacted partial relief in the form of a credit for past AMT taxes paid. This bill extends that relief to all taxpayers hit by the AMT because of ISO’s.
07.23.2007	(WASHINGTON) Today Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy and Congressman Richard Neal praised the federal government's swift disaster declaration for those devastated by the massive fire in the Uxbridge Mill complex early Sunday. Kerry, Kennedy and Neal wrote to the Small Business Administration (SBA) urging the agency to approve the state's request for disaster aid. The declaration will allow the estimated 135 impacted businesses and homeowners to apply for low-interest disaster loans through the federal government."I spoke to SBA Administrator Preston today and urged his immediate attention to aiding the Uxbridge Bernat Mill small businesses," said Senator Kerry. "I applaud Mr. Preston and the agency for moving quickly so that every resource is made available to the businesses seeking to rebuild their livelihoods and their community. I will continue to work with the SBA, state officials, and my colleagues to get these Uxbridge entrepreneurs back in business."Senator Kennedy said "This help and assistance is a first step in rebuilding after this devastating fire destroyed so many businesses, and I'm pleased that the SBA has acted so quickly on behalf of those impacted in the Commonwealth.""After visiting the devastated Bernat Mill Complex today, and meeting with many of the small business owners and workers, it was clear that immediate disaster relief was needed. I applaud the US Small Business Administration for their quick decision to make disaster assistance available to those in Uxbridge displaced by the fire. I am certain that with the combined efforts of those in the public and private sector, we can bring this success story in central Massachusetts back to life," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.Kerry, Chairman of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, is also working to pass legislation that will improve the federal government's disaster loan program. The Small Business Disaster Response and Loan Improvements Act would increase the size of low-interest loans, provide short-term relief while businesses wait for insurance payments or other assistance, and expedite the loan processing process.
04.02.2007	To view video click here, and then click on photograph of Prime Minister Blair at the right side margin.
03.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The House Committee on Ways and Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue held a hearing today on the Alternative Minimum Tax. Subcommittee Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA) issued the following opening statement:"This is the first hearing of the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee and I think it is fitting that the subject we will discuss today is the Alternative Minimum Tax, or as some refer to it - the ATM machine for our federal government."The AMT is an issue that I have been battling for almost a decade - that's right. I first filed a bill trying to protect middle-income families from the reach of the AMT back in 1998. "The Ranking Republican on this Subcommittee, my friend, Mr. English, has also filed legislation to repeal the AMT reaching back to 1999. As Ambrose Bierce once wrote, "Patience is a minor form of despair disguised as virtue." If that is true, then Mr. English and I are very virtuous men."The AMT is a bipartisan problem and we are seeking bipartisan solutions. It is a parallel and stealth tax system estimated to hit 23 million taxpayers this year, if we do not extend a $50 billion patch to the system."Can you imagine a $50 billion "patch?" For those of you who appreciate classic or older cars like I do, you know how expensive it can be to keep them up and running each year. At some point, though, you wonder if it is worth the effort. "Many car owners simply resort to cheaper fixes, like bondo, to patch up the car. But it isn't pretty, and eventually you have to commit to a major overhaul. "We are at that point with the AMT. The coat of bondo we've put on year after year is just delaying the inevitable conclusion that this is a system that doesn't run well."The testimony we will hear today on that point is quite dramatic."This year, a family of four earning just $66,000 could be hit by the AMT. By the end of the decade, virtually all families earning between $75,000 and $100,000 with two children will be paying higher taxes due to the AMT. "At my direction, the Committee staff prepared for each Member today specific estimates showing the growth of AMT by Congressional District for 2007. It is important to see how this will be impacting our constituents."State and local taxes and personal exemptions - that is, children - are the top reasons taxpayers get pushed onto the family-unfriendly AMT."This system originally designed to catch millionaires who were avoiding taxes with excessive deductions has gone seriously awry. It is my intention to offer a permanent solution to AMT, and not just another coat of bondo. "This series of hearings will assist the Subcommittee in finding and potentially recommending such a solution. "Today's hearing will explore the history, background, and policy reasons for the AMT. At our next hearing two weeks from now, we will hear more of the first-hand experience of those impacted by the AMT."So, I am pleased to welcome our witnesses today. From the Treasury Department, we have Mr. Eric Solomon, the Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, who will explain the position of the Administration, surely a partner in any ultimate solution."We are fortunate to also have Ms. Nina Olson, the National Taxpayer Advocate, who is exactly what her title says - OUR advocate. She has recommended for years that the AMT be repealed because of the burden it places on individual taxpayers."I am pleased to welcome also today Dr. Len Burman, the Director of the Tax Policy Center. If you read pretty much any article or paper on the AMT, you will see Len Burman quoted or his work cited in a footnote. We are fortunate to have his expertise today."And finally, I want to welcome Dr. Alan Viard, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. Dr. Viard has written on the problems in the AMT both at AEI and at his former position as an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas."St. Augustine said that "Patience is the companion of wisdom. " Since Mr. English and I have already shown plenty of patience, we expect some wisdom today."
02.15.2007	(WASHINGTON) MADAME SPEAKER, last Saturday, in my hometown of Springfield, Massachusetts, I spent the day welcoming home 150 brave American soldiers from the 181st Engineer Battalion of the Massachusetts National Guard who recently completed a year-long deployment in Iraq.Their mission was to provide security for their fellow service members and to protect key military facilities.The troops from the 181st performed their duty with courage and distinction, earning medals and awards such as the Bronze Star, the Combat Action Badge and the Purple Heart.As their Member of Congress, it was my great honor to welcome them back home to western Massachusetts and out of harms way.I am certain that virtually every member of the House and Senate has participated in similar homecoming ceremonies across the country. My distinguished colleagues take their constitutional responsibilities and the duties of their office very seriously.And while we may have honest disagreements about policy, Democrats and Republicans remain united in our commitment to the men and women in uniform who defend our nation. We may have differences about the war, but we find common ground today in our steadfast support for the warriors. Both in Iraq, on their way to Iraq and around the world.And that is one very important reason why I intend to vote in favor of this bipartisan resolution.But as the war finishes its fourth year, I am concerned about the growing number of troops who may not return to their city or town for a homecoming ceremony.As the sectarian violence in Iraq escalates, I think about those young service men and women who may not be reunited with their families and loved ones.And as we debate this resolution, I am mindful of the thousands of soldiers who have sustained injuries while serving their country bravely and honorably.The burden of this war has fallen our troops and their families. There has been little sacrifice asked of the American people.And those who have sacrificed deserve a frank and honest debate over how long President Bush intends to keep our soldiers in the region.As we debate the future of Iraq this week, one thing is certain.You cannot edit or airbrush historyWe know today that there were no weapons of mass destruction.There was no enriched uranium from Niger.There was no connection to al-Qaeda.We were not welcomed as liberators.Freedom is not on the march.And more than four years later, the mission has not been accomplished.Madame Speaker, like the vast majority of Americans, I believe the war in Iraq is going badly and getting worse.According to the latest National Intelligence Estimate (NIE), the overall security situation in Iraq is deteriorating, with 2006 being one of the deadliest years to date.The war has increased Islamic radicalism worldwide and helped destabilize the entire Middle East region.And despite the administration's claims to the contrary, the conflict has not made America safer.By any objective standard, Iraq has descended into something worse than a civil war with American troops caught in the middle.More than 3,100 soldiers have died since the use of force began in March 2003, with nearly 50 casualties alone coming from Massachusetts. And there is no end in sight.Yet President Bush, nearly three years after declaring an end to major combat operations in Iraq, is sending another 20,000 troops into battle.And Vice President Cheney, in the face of insurmountable evidence, continues to declare Iraq a success.As we debate this resolution today, it is clear that support for the war has reached a tipping point.The majority of Americans do not support the president's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. According to a USA Today/Gallup poll released this week, 60% of Americans now oppose sending more troops to Baghdad and the Anbar Province.Our troops no longer have confidence in the Commander-in-Chief. Only 35 % of those men and women in uniform support the president's handing of the war according to the Military Times.Veterans groups are now demanding that our troops come home.Our intelligence community, speaking collectively in the recent NIE, believe the future of Iraq is grim.And most significantly, our distinguished military commanders believe it is time for a new direction.General Colin Powell, General Anthony Zinni, General John Batiste, General Gregory Newbold and others have all expressed real concern about our future in Iraq. These are individuals who were deeply involved in the planning and execution of the war. And they do not like what they see.Even the former director of the National Security Agency under President Ronald Reagan, retired Lieutenant General William Odom, acknowledged on Sunday that "the president's policy in Iraq is based on illusions, not realities."I do not believe public opinion should shape public policy, but no one should underestimate the intelligence of the American people. They are convinced that the "stay the course" policy of President Bush has failed.Madame Speaker, every member of Congress wants the United States to succeed in Iraq and have our troops come home safely and at the earliest possible opportunity.No elected representative of this institution would ever seek to undermine our service men and women.And no one should ever doubt which side any member is on in this conflict.Since 9/11, Democrats and Republicans have stood together in the fight against global terrorism.But the facts are clear, the war in Iraq is the most important issue facing our country today. And our constituents are entitled to know where their representatives stand on the way forward.That is why this discussion is so important.Just as the debate in 2002 led us into war with Iraq, perhaps the conversation we are having with the American family this week will begin the process of bringing our troops back home.Nearly five years ago, I came to the floor of the House of Representatives with deep reservations about granting President George W. Bush unlimited powers to authorize an invasion on a sovereign country.I did not believe Saddam Hussein posed an imminent threat to the United States of America.I did not believe there was a connection between Iraq and al-Qaeda with respect to the attacks of 9/11.I did not believe the cost of the war would be insignificant, either in dollars or lives.And I did not believe it would make the Middle East or the United States of America safer.For those reasons and others, I voted against authorizing the use of force against Iraq.As we debate this bipartisan resolution, we face many of the same questions today. But my convictions and beliefs have not changed since October 2002.I do not support the president's plan to escalate the war in Iraq.I believe it is time to develop an honorable exit strategy.Our troops should be coming home to their families and loved ones at the earliest opportunity.I support a new direction in Iraq. And I plan on voting in favor of this important bipartisan resolution.
02.05.2007	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal held his first meeting last week as the new Chairman of the House Ways and Means Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee. At the organizational meeting, Chairman Neal identified the issues the Subcommittee will address in the 110th Congress including reform of the Alternative Minimum Tax(AMT), pension and retirement security, energy incentives, housing programs and tax simplification.In his opening remarks, Neal indicated that he would like the Subcommittee to hold its first hearing on AMT relief at the end of February. "I want to put the AMT hearings on a fast track. Millions of middle class American families are being forced to pay this tax each year. Without AMT reform, that number will continue to grow. As Chairman of the Subcommittee, I intend to put a magnifying glass on this important issue," said Neal.The 13 Members of the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures are: Richard E. Neal, Chairman (D-MA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Mike Thompson (D-CA), John Larson (D-CT), Allyson Schwartz (D-PA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), Earl Blumenauer, Phil English, Ranking Member (R-PA), Tom Reynolds (R-NY), Eric Cantor (R-VA), John Linder (R-GA) and Paul Ryan (R-WI).
01.10.2007	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-Springfield) issued the following statement on President Bush's speech to the nation tonight outlining his new plan for the escalation of the war in Iraq."In October 2002, I went to the floor of the House of Representatives to vote against authorizing the use of military force in Iraq. I raised a number of concerns about a pre-emptive war including its cost in lives, the lack of a connection between Saddam Hussein and 9/11, and the fact that Iraq was not a credible threat to the United States. I also had deep misgivings about giving unlimited powers to the president. It was a responsibility that I took very seriously. More than four years later, I believe it was the most important vote that I have cast as a Member of Congress. Since the war started, more than 3,000 brave and heroic Americans have been killed, 45 alone from Massachusetts. Over 22,000 of our men and women in uniform have been wounded in Iraq. The war is now costing taxpayers $8 billion per month. And there is no end in sight. In my opinion, President Bush should start bringing the troops home, not sending them back into harms way.Tonight's speech by President Bush is another variation of stay the course. He has not acknowledged that Iraq has descended into a civil war with our troops caught in the middle. He has minimized the threat of the insurgency, mislead on weapons of mass destruction and mismanaged this conflict from the beginning. He no longer has the support of his generals, the troops or the American people. I believe it is time for an honorable exit strategy that will bring our troops back home. Many of our top military leaders and foreign policy experts are opposed an escalation of the war in Iraq. They are convinced that a military solution is no longer achievable. The proposal put forward tonight by President Bush will not change the course in Iraq. That is the responsibility of the Iraq people. It will take real leadership from Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki to end the sectarian violence. And ultimately, the Sunnis and Shiites of Iraq will have to determine if they want a future of conflict or reconciliation.Our troops have served this country with courage, honor and dignity. They have done all that has been asked of them. It is time for these heroes to come home."
11.13.2006	(BOSTON) Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressmen Richard Neal and James McGovern, today announced the Department of Labor has approved $927,957 in emergency funding to assist Massachusetts workers. The Workforce Investment Act grant will help workers affected by the closing of Millbury’s Dresser Rand, Douglas’ Interface Fabrics, Milford’s Thermo IEC, and by the layoffs at Maxtor in Shrewsbury and William Wright in West Warren. It will provide these workers with “wrap-around” services such counseling, care management and other follow-up services. “This is critical help for workers whose lives have been upended by layoffs. It will give those who have been hurt the help they need to get back on their feet,” said Senator Kerry. “I commend the Department of Labor for working with the Massachusetts Department of Workforce Development to recognize the needs of the working people in our state.” “The plant closings and layoffs at these companies – all within the last several months -- dealt a harsh blow to hundreds of workers and their families in Worcester County and beyond,” said Senator Kennedy. “This National Emergency Grant will provide immediate assistance as these workers look for new jobs, helping the communities of Douglas, Millbury, Milford, Shrewsbury and West Warren rebound from this difficult moment.” "This federal assistance will be a great help to families in central Massachusetts who have been directly affected by recent layoffs. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the United States Congress to try and assist these workers and their families during their time of need," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "I'm very pleased that the Department of Labor has recognized the need to help these workers," Rep. McGovern said. "It's essential that we do all we can to help them transition back into good-paying jobs."
07.03.2006	Will be awarded prestigious JFK Memorial Medal in Boston (SPRINGFIELD) Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-Springfield) will be awarded the prestigious John F. Kennedy Memorial Medal by the Ancient Order of Hibernians (AOH) in America at their 93rd National Convention in Boston on Thursday. Formed in New York in 1836, the AOH is the oldest and largest Irish Catholic organization in the United States. A leading figure in the Northern Ireland peace process, Congressman Neal will receive the award because of his ongoing efforts to bring peace and reconciliation to the island of Ireland."As the grandson of Irish immigrants, this award is especially meaningful to me. Like so many in my generation, I became involved in politics and government because of John F. Kennedy. To receive a medal named after the late President from such a prominent organization is a great honor. I am very grateful to the members of the AOH for this special recognition," said Congressman Neal.The AOH's highest honor was established in 1964 in memory of John F. Kennedy, the first Irish Catholic American elected President of the United States. Previous JFK Memorial Medal recipients include His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, the late Archbishop of New York; 1998 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate John Hume; Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams; and Fr. Aidan Troy of the Holy Cross Trust in Belfast."The medal is the most prestigious award given by our noble order. Your selection from a distinguished field of candidates is a tribute to your unwavering support for the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement, including all of the policing reforms recommended by the Patten Commission. In addition, the award recognizes your many years as a true champion of human rights for the Catholic nationalist community in the north of Ireland. And indeed, your staunch record of support for all issues pertaining to Ireland, both north and south," said John J. Meehan, Jr., National Vice President, Ancient Order of Hibernians.The AOH is the oldest and largest Irish Catholic organization in the United States. The early AOH in America remained a secret society, and little is known of its activities except that it provided a monetary stipend to immigrants who arrived as members of Irish societies, assisted Irish immigrants in obtaining jobs and social services, and became nurseries for the preservation of Irish heritage in America. The organization remains committed to working for the total independence of a united 32 county Ireland.Congressman Richard E. Neal is the Co-Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on Irish Affairs. He is widely recognized as the leading Democrat in the U.S House of Representatives on issues that relate to Irish affairs. He has been deeply involved in the effort to end the conflict in Northern Ireland for three decades.
06.23.2006	Funds to Be Used to Develop Memorial Industrial Park II WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Senator John F. Kerry, and Congressman Richard E. Neal announced today that the Department of Commerce has approved an application submitted by the City of Springfield, the Springfield Redevelopment Authority, and the Springfield Water and Sewer Commission for $995,000 in economic development funds to assist with the development of the Springfield Memorial Industrial Park II. This project is expected to attract more than $25 million in private investment, and create 142 jobs."Mayor Ryan and Springfield should be commended for such a creative proposal that will create jobs and attract substantial investment," Senator Kennedy said. "The competition for these economic development funds is fierce, and today's announcement is a well-deserved recognition of the City's hard work.""This is a great investment in Springfield. It's going to create good-paying jobs and attract millions in private investment" Senator Kerry said. "I am proud to have worked with Senator Kennedy, Congressman Neal and Mayor Ryan to help make this happen." "I am delighted with this good news. I would like to acknowledge the hard work of Senator Kennedy, Senator Kerry and Congressman Neal in helping to secure this federal grant. Today's announcement represents a very important step forward in the development of the Smith & Wesson track, " said Mayor Charles V. Ryan."The successful development of the Memorial Industrial Park is critical to the future of Springfield's economy. These funds from the Commerce Department will make a sizeable investment in this important project. This economic development initiative will certainly bring new jobs to the City of Springfield," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The 86-acre industrial park project located on Roosevelt Avenue in Springfield recently announced its first tenant, Performance Food Group of Virginia, a Fortune 500 Company. The Memorial Industrial Park II is adjacent to the Smith & Wesson plant which sold the property for $1.75 million in 2002.
06.14.2006	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal took part in a special ceremonytoday at the National World War II Memorial in Washington to honor 40 American servicemen killed 63 years ago today in a plane crash at Baker'sCreek, Australia. A memorial marker in tribute to the fallen soldiers, whichis expected to placed at Arlington National Cemetery, was unveiled at this morning's event. The accident remains the largest aviation accident inAustralian history, and it was the worst allied airplane crash in the Pacific Theatre of WWII.Springfield native Samuel Cutler, a US Army Air Force Captain who passed away in 1990, was the officer of the day on June 14, 1943, and was the last to see the crew alive. His account of the Baker's Creek Crash inspired his son Robert to begin a 16 year effort to find out what really happened in Australia 60 years ago.Thanks to Robert Cutler and others, the story of the men of Baker Creek is finally being told, and a new chapter of history is being written.Download a copy of Congressman Neal's remarks here. Download a press release from today's event here. Download a PDF of photos and more information here.
06.13.2006	Funds targeted for street improvements, Camp Atwater and housing (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal has announced that three important projects in western Massachusetts have received approximately $750,000 in federal assistance in legislation that passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. The funding for these projects was included in 2007 Transportation, Treasury and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill."With federal dollars being so scarce, I am pleased to secure $750,000 for these important projects. The State Street Corridor Initiative, Camp Atwater and the Village at Hospital Hill are ventures that help improve the quality of life in western Massachusetts," said Congressman Neal.The City of Springfield will receive $500,000 in additional assistance for the redevelopment of the State Street Corridor. These funds are needed to complete necessary renovations to Elliot and Spring Streets in Springfield, which compliment the construction of the new, state-of-the-art, $60 million federal courthouse. The assistance will be used for lighting, new sidewalks and paving surfaces, and the upgrade of traffic signals and pedestrian amenities.Approximately $150,000 was also secured through HUD's Economic Development Initiative (EDI) for the renovation and physical improvements of Camp Atwater. Camp Atwater is a residential summer camp that has prepared youth for the challenges of life since 1921. Today, it still operates to provide African-American youths to a recreational, cultural, and educational summer experience that will add to their interpersonal growth and development in immeasurable ways.The historic Camp Atwater is the oldest camp of its kind in the country, offering its campers fully staffed, up to date facilities housed on 75 acres of land beside scenic Lake Lashaway in North Brookfield, MA. It is owned and operated by the Urban League of Springfield and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is accredited by the American Camping Association. Camp Atwater has more than 55,000 alumni.The City of Northampton will receive $100,000 through HUD's EDI Program for the continued redevelopment of the former Northampton State Hospital. The site is being transformed into the Village at Hospital Hill; a vibrant mixed use community, compatible with surrounding neighborhoods. The 126 acre site includes 880,000 square feet of existing space in 47 buildings on the main campus. This new funding is target for the demolition of deteriorated buildings and the construction of new infrastructure.
06.08.2006	Funds to be used to teach American history (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded the Springfield Public Schools (SPS)-Office of the Superintendent-a grant in the amount of $999,991 to teach American history. It is anticipated that the federal assistance will be for a total of three years."With federal dollars being so competitive, I am very pleased that the Springfield Public Schools were able to secure this sizable grant," said Congressman Neal. "This successful and exciting program has been enormously beneficial to students and teachers. By partnering with the Five Colleges, local teachers have become deeply engaged in the study of American history. And that expertise has carried over into the classroom. Today's announcement is good news for the Springfield Public Schools.""Our new TAH grant, "Creating, Challenging, and Sustaining Democracy" is a wonderful opportunity to further enhance the teaching of American history for both students and teachers. I have observed first-hand the excitement of teachers who have been involved in our two other TAH grant projects.We are very fortunate that all three of the TAH programs have been done in partnership with the Five College Public School Partnership of the Five College consortium in Amherst and local museums including the Quadrangle Museums, Historic Deerfield, Wistariahurst, and the Springfield Armory. The Teaches Curriculum Institute has provided special curriculum training throughout the projects with its History Alive series.This new grant will further our long term district plans of helping teachers to enrich their content and ultimately to enable their students to become better historians," said Dr. Joseph P. Burke, Superintendent of Schools.Teaching American History (TAH) grants support projects to raise student achievement by improving teachers knowledge, understanding, and appreciation of traditional American history. Grant awards assist local educational agencies (LEAs), in partnership with entities that have extensive content expertise, to develop, document, evaluate, and disseminate innovative, cohesive models of professional development.By helping teachers to develop a deeper understanding and appreciation of traditional American history as a separate subject within the core curriculum, these programs improve instruction and raise student achievement. The Teaching American History project will be implemented in partnership with history faculty at the member institutions of the Five Colleges (Amherst, Hampshire, Mount Holyoke, Smith and the University of Massachusetts). The project will provide over 350 hours of intensive professional development in history content and pedagogy to a new group of 40 teachers from SPS through annual two week summer institutes, field study, academic-year history academies (book clubs, special topics, and technology and media), and an annual Teaching History Forum.
06.07.2006	(WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal recently welcomed Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to the U.S. Capitol to address a special Joint Session of Congress."We revere the principles and values represented by your great country, and grateful for the unwavering support and friendship we have received from the US Congress, from President Bush and from the American people," Olmert told Congress."The similarities in our economic, social and cultural identities are obvious, but there's something much deeper and everlasting. The unbreakable ties between our two nations extend far beyond mutual interests. They are based on our shared goals and values stemming from the very essence of our mutual foundations.""It was a privilege to welcome the Prime Minister of Israel to the United States Capitol," said Neal. "His remarks underscored the strong and important relationship that exists between the United States and Israel. I assured the Prime Minister that the bond between our two nations will continue well into the future."Ehud Olmert, 60, became Prime Minister in April 2006. He was elected to the Knesset in 1973 at the age of 28 and was re-elected seven consecutive times. From 1993 to 2003, Olmert served as Mayor of Jerusalem, the first member of the Likud Party to hold the position. He is married and the father of four children.
05.29.2006	Funds earmarked for biological and environmental research (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that the House of Representatives approved a funding a bill last week that includes $500,000 for the Pioneer Valley Life Sciences Institute (PVLSI). The federal assistance was part of the fiscal year 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations bill."I have been a outspoken supporter of the The Pioneer Valley Life Sciences Institute for many years. This exciting partnership between Baystate Medical Center and UMASS will help benefit health, education and economic development in western Massachusetts. It keeps our region competitive in a global economy. I believe this collaboration has enormous potential, and I am pleased to have secured this federal assistance," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The Pioneer Valley Life Sciences Institute is dedicated to improving human health by developing innovative new approaches for the diagnoses and treatment of disease. PVLSI was created in 2003 as a joint venture of Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, with the dual missions of biomedical research and economic development.Drawing on each of the founders as well as researchers, PVLSI brings together physicians, scientists, and engineers to create interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary teams focused on the molecular mechanisms of disease and the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic tools.
05.19.2006	Funds will preserve and promote historical cultural resources (WASHINGTON) Second District Congressman Richard E. Neal today announced that the House of Representatives approved a funding bill that includes $800,000 for the Quinebaug-Shetucket Heritage Corridor. The federal assistance was part of the fiscal year 2007 Interior, Environment Appropriations bill."As a strong supporter of National Heritage Corridors, I am pleased to secure this $800,000 for the "Last Green Valley." This Quinebaug-Shetucket region successfully brings together natural, cultural and recreational resources. It is a local treasure that residents and visitors frequently enjoy," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The Quinebaug-Shetucket Heritage Corridor works to preserve The Last Green Valley. These federal funds will make improvements to the recreational and agricultural tourism infrastructure in the area, and will build the capacity of regional partners to preserve and promote historical cultural resources.The assistance will also enhance and link trails and waterways for residents and tourists and would inspire and educate present land use decision-makers and stewards of the Last Green Valley. Finally, the funds would be used to continue critical land use planning assistance for 35 towns.The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor encompasses about 695,000 acres in central Massachusetts and northern Connecticut. The area stretches from Norwich, Connecticut north to Charlton, Massachusetts and from Coventry, Connecticut east to the Rhode Island border. More than half the size of the Grand Canyon National Park and ten times the area of Acadia, the National Heritage Corridor is a special type of park. Its 35 towns with numerous villages has a total population of about 300,000.
05.19.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressmen John W. Olver (D-1st District) and Richard E. Neal (D-2nd District) announced that the U. S. House of Representatives has approved a funding bill that includes $500,000 for the construction of a new water treatment facility that will serve Northampton and Williamsburg.The funding was included in the fiscal year 2007 Interior, Environment Appropriations bill. Olver is a member of the Interior, Environment Appropriations Subcommittee and worked with Neal to secure the funding. “It is essential that people in western Massachusetts have safe and reliable sources of drinking water,” Congressman Neal said. “These federal dollars will help build a new water treatment plant that will serve the citizens of Northampton. This new facility, which will be located in Williamsburg, will ensure that appropriate water quality standards are being met.”“This federal funding will mitigate the impact of this federally-mandated project on private citizens,” Congressman Olver said. “The new water treatment plant will be a regional resource for drinking water which is of high quality and compliant with stricter federal regulations.” The city of Northampton currently operates an unfiltered public water system, using three surface reservoirs as its water source. Chlorination is the principal method for disinfecting the drinking water supply. However, disinfection byproducts have been found to exceed the limits set under the federal Surface Water Treatment Rules and the state Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) is requiring the city to construct a water treatment plant to filter its drinking water. Northampton will build the facility in the town of Williamsburg, adjacent to the Mountain Street Reservoir. The new plant will be capable of filtering over 4 million gallons of water per day and lessen the need for secondary treatment, such as chlorination.In addition, the new plant will provide a backup water supply to Williamsburg. Because Williamsburg relies on public wells for most of its drinking water and does not have an alternative supply should any of those wells become contaminated, the state DEP is requiring the town to have a backup source. The new plant was designed to produce an amount in excess of Northampton’s requirements and can easily supply Williamsburg with the emergency water it needs, at minimal cost.
05.19.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressmen John W. Olver (D-1st District) and Richard E. Neal (D-2nd District) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $1.5 million for critical sewage control projects along the Connecticut River in Holyoke, Springfield, South Hadley, Chicopee and Ludlow.The funding was included in the fiscal year 2007 Interior, Environment Appropriations bill. Olver is a member of the Interior, Environment Appropriations Subcommittee and worked with Neal to secure the funding. “The Environmental Protection Agency mandate to correct combined sewer overflows is an environmentally sound endeavor, but unfortunately, there is not sufficient funding in the State Revolving Loan Fund to even come close to meeting the needs of these communities,” Congressman Olver said. “Despite this obstacle, I’m pleased we’ve been able to secure this modest appropriation to move critical CSO projects forward, and we’ll keep at it.”“The Connecticut River is a national treasure,” Congressman Neal said. “Those of us who live in New England have a particular obligation to preserve and protect the river for future generations. This federal assistance will directly address the issue of combined sewer overflows, which remains a major source of pollution. I am confident that this funding will help communities along the river in their continuing effort to clean up this great natural resource.”The funding will assist the communities of Holyoke, Springfield, South Hadley, Chicopee and Ludlow in addressing combined sewer overflows (CSO’s) to the Connecticut River, a problem of interstate significance and major environmental impact. Currently, the five participating communities are under U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administrative orders to cleanup more than 78 CSO’s, which discharge more than a billion gallons of effluent per year into the Connecticut River and its tributaries. Olver and Neal have worked to secure more than $6.5 million in funding between FY1999 and FY2006 to address CSO’s in these communities. The funding will be used for construction or engineering of projects to directly reduce or eliminate CSO’s into the river in the five participating communities. The projects may include sewer separation, inline storage facilities and wastewater treatment facilities.
05.10.2006	"Nearly half of Medicare beneficiairies don't know that May 15 is the deadline for enrolling without penalty in a prescription drug plan.Many seniors and people with disabilities in westren Massachusetts are unaware about the stiff and unfair penalties they will pay if they miss the deadline and enroll later.I strongly believe the May 15 deadline should be extended to December 31 and that penalties during this period should be eliminated.President Bush should give seniors a fair chance to understand this complex and confusing program," said Congressman Richard E. Neal.
04.27.2006	Cites the Secretary of Defense's mismanagement of the Iraq war (WASHINGTON) Citing his mismanagement of the Iraq war, Congressman Richard E. Neal today called for the resignation of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. After more than three years at war, approximately 2,396 American casualties, and with no honorable exit strategy in sight, Neal said it was time for Rumsfeld to step aside. In October 2002, Neal was 1 of 133 House Members who voted against the resolution authorizing the use of military force against Iraq."Since the beginning of the war, I have had serious concerns and reservations about Donald Rumsfeld's leadership," said Neal. "I never believed that the Secretary of Defense sent enough troops to Iraq, but he dismissed those who questioned his judgment at the time. When Army General Eric Shinseki told Congress in 2003 that that "several hundred thousand troops" would be needed to secure postwar Iraq, he was rebuked by Rumsfeld. That was a defining moment for many Americans who had doubts about the war. It suggested the Secretary of Defense was not listening to the advice of his military commanders. Unfortunately, events in Iraq have proven that General Shinseki was right."In the last month, seven retired military commanders have publicly called for Rumsfeld's ouster. Army General Wesley Clark, Marine Corps General Anthony Zinni, Army Major General John Batiste, Marine Corps Lieutenant General Gregory Newbold, Army Major Gen Paul Eaton, Army General John Riggs and Army Major General Charles Swannack Jr., have all urged the Secretary of Defense to step down.Democrats and Republicans are now questioning Rumsfeld's leadership and temperament. Conservatives Robert Novak and William Kristol have joined Democrats Edward M. Kennedy, Joseph Biden and John Kerry in calling for the Secretary of Defense's resignation. However, President Bush has strongly defended Rumsfeld on several occasions."And now several Generals who were deeply involved in the planning and execution of the Iraq war are speaking out about Donald Rumsfeld's mismanagement. They have worked directly with the Secretary of Defense and it is clear that they have lost confidence in him. In their opinion, Rumsfeld failed to listen to advice and minimized the extent of the insurgency. These military commanders have served our country with honor and distinction, and I believe we should take their words very seriously.""It is time for Donald Rumsfeld to step down. He needs to be held accountable for his mismanagement in Iraq. The next change President Bush makes in his cabinet should be at the Pentagon. We need a fresh start at the Defense of Department, a clear vision for success in Iraq and an honorable exit strategy. That can only happen with Donald Rumsfeld's departure," said Neal.
02.21.2006	Lawmaker will support legislation in Congress to block sale (WASHINGTON) Congressman Richard E. Neal is strongly opposed to a decision by the Bush administration that would allow a United Arab Emirates (UAE) owned company to acquire control of six major seaports on the East coast of the United States. The proposed $6.8 billion sale, approved by the Committee for Financial Investment in the United States (CIFUS), would permit Dubai Ports World to manage operations at ports in New York, New Jersey, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New Orleans and Miami.Congressman Neal announced today that he intends to support legislation in Congress that would suspend the sale to Dubai Ports World on March 2. He has also called on the Homeland Security Committee to hold immediate public hearings focusing on the issues involved in the DP World transaction. "I believe the Bush administration has shown poor judgment in hastily approving this sale to a company that is owned and controlled by the United Arab Emirates. I intend to support legislation in Congress next that will block the UAE port deal.This is not a partisan issue. It is a national security issue. We should not be outsourcing our homeland security duties to foreign countries. Both Democrats and Republicans in Congress agree that this questionable transaction needs to be examined more thoroughly, and that is why I support Congressional hearings to fully investigate this contract."President Bush has until March 2 to make a final judgment on the CIFUS recommendation. The group includes members of the Departments of State, Justice, Commerce Defense, Justice and Homeland Security.
