03.08.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 7, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Introduction of the Violence Against Women Act of 2019 Jackson Lee: “The effort to pass VAWA represents a commitment to saving lives and recognizing how long we have been suffering and how far we have come. This iteration of VAWA also speaks to the indignities and harms suffered by Native American women who, either through tribal custom, legal strictures or station in life, were not contemplated by past efforts to pass VAWA. And, we cannot forget the victims of domestic violence like Brittany Smith, who was 23 years old and was gunned down last year in Houston, by her boyfriend and San Diego-based Marine; nor can we forget Charlene Caldwell, a mother and grandmother beaten to death last year by a baseball bat at the hands of her boyfriend in Houston. Sadly, their story is representative is too many others.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the introduction of the Violence Against Women Act of 2019: “The Violence Against Women Act (“VAWA”) is landmark legislation which—through policy reforms, interstate cooperation and grant allocation—has been pivotal in providing a national response to protecting half of the population. Equally important, it has ushered in a seismic transformation on how society perceives violence against women. The law has enhanced and improved the lives of girls and women, boys and men. Unfortunately, the last authorization for VAWA lapsed last year, and the program requires reauthorization. Today’s hearing of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, of which I am a senior member—was its first of the new Congress and represents the commitment of the new house majority to protecting women from the scourge of domestic violence. “The effort to pass VAWA represents a commitment to saving lives and recognizing how long we have been suffering and how far we have come. This iteration of VAWA also speaks to the indignities and harms suffered by Native American women who, either through tribal custom, legal strictures or station in life, were not contemplated by past efforts to pass VAWA. And, we cannot forget the victims of domestic violence like Brittany Smith, who was 23 years old and was gunned down last year in Houston, by her boyfriend and San Diego-based Marine; nor can we forget Charlene Caldwell, a mother and grandmother beaten to death last year by a baseball bat at the hands of her boyfriend in Houston. Sadly, their story is representative is too many others. But, their stories—that of Brittany and Charlene—and the countless others out there are why this effort is so worthwhile. Yet, while the stories of Brittany and Charlene are reason to contemplate and pause, we can take stock of the work that has been accomplished since VAWA’s initial enactment in 1994. Since VAWA’s codification in 1994, more victims report episodes of domestic violence to the police and the rate of non-fatal intimate partner violence against women has decreased by almost two-thirds. VAWA has also led to a significant increase in the reporting of sexual assault. For example, the percentage of survivors of rape and sexual assault who report the assault to the police increased from 28.8% in 1993—the year prior to VAWA’s initial passage—to 50% in 2010. In the first 15 years of VAWA’s validity, rates of serious intimate partner violence declined by 72 percent for women and 64 percent for men. Research suggests that referring a victim to a domestic violence or sexual assault advocate has been linked to an increased willingness to file a police report – survivors with an advocate filed a report with law enforcement 59% of the time, versus 41% for individuals not referred to a victim advocate. But more has to be done, which is why the time is ripe to pass the Violence Against Women Act of 2019. “The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2019 improves current law in several important respects, and takes a holistic approach to the goal of eliminating the harm faced by victims of violence, and making vital services accessible to survivors of this scourge. For example, this iteration of VAWA contains guidance on the use of grants to activate judicial and law enforcement tools to develop and enforce firearm surrender policies; expands permissible use of grant funding for programs focused on increasing survivor/law enforcement/community safety; and provides legal assistance for dependent children in appropriate circumstances. It also updates programs designed to reduce dating violence, help children exposed to violence and engage men in preventing violence against women. “Additionally, the bill improves services for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. It provides policies, protection, and justice for young victims of violence, including extending the Rape Prevention and Education grant program, addressing bullying of young people, improving grants focused on prevention education for students, and expanding relevant training for school-based and campus health centers; and reauthorizes and updates programs designed to reduce dating violence, help children exposed to violence, and engage men in preventing violence. This bill also recognizes the cascading ills associated with identifying, eliminating and preventing the reemergence of domestic violence. It expands grants under the Public Health Service Act to support implementation of training programs to improve the capacity of early childhood programs to address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking among the families they serve; preserves and expands housing protections for survivors; provides economic security assistance for survivors by reauthorizing the National Resource Center on Workplace Responses; protects employees from being fired because they are survivors of sexual assault or domestic violence; and protects survivors’ eligibility to receive Unemployment Insurance. “Recognizing that many women are victimized at the hands of intimate partners, this iteration of VAWA helps prevent “intimate partner” homicides by including provisions expanding firearms laws to prohibit persons convicted of dating violence from possessing firearms, prohibiting persons convicted of misdemeanor stalking from possessing firearms and prohibiting individuals subject to ex parte protective orders from possessing firearms. Accordingly, the bill helps protect Native American women, by including provisions to improve the response to missing and murdered Native American women, improving tribal access to federal crime information databases and reaffirming tribal criminal jurisdiction over non-Indian perpetrators of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, stalking and trafficking for all federally recognized Indian tribes and Alaskan Natives. Additionally, this bill protects the Office on Violence Against Women in the Department of Justice from being de-emphasized, merged or consolidated into any other DOJ office. “VAWA is central to our nation’s effort to fight the epidemic of domestic, sexual and dating violence and stalking. This work did not happen on its own. It was the product of a collaborative effort of stakeholders including victim advocates. It was the product of those willing to share their stories of the abuse suffered at the hands of those who were entrusted to love but instead harmed. The courage, strength and resilience displayed by survivors has reminded all that we must continue to foster an environment for victims of violence to come forward and expose episodes of violence against women. “This bill represents the good that can come when courageous people with a story to tell come forward with the belief that through their pain, the lives of others can be helped. Having listened to concerned stakeholders from all pockets of the country, we have put pen to paper and produced a bill that is endorsed by the bipartisan National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence (NTF), which is a national collaboration comprising a large and diverse group of 35 national, tribal, state, territorial and local organizations, advocates and individuals that focus on the development, passage and implementation of effective public policy to address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. Indeed, there is no reason our work on this cannot be bipartisan. as has been the custom of prior Congresses in authorizing this critical piece of legislation. The love for a spouse, the comfort of a mother and the best wishes for a sister know no political allegiance.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security.
02.28.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 27, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following House Passage of H.R. 8 – the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019 Jackson Lee—“Our country is awash in guns and the American people are demanding that action to be taken to curb the scourge of gun violence in our country. This is why commonsense background checks legislation is so vital. H.R. 8 is so designated because it was introduced exactly eight years after my colleague, Gabby Giffords, was seriously wounding during a mass shooting at a constituent event in Tucson, Arizona, which left six persons killed and over a dozen injured. Through her bravery, courage and leadership, Gabby Giffords helped lead the charge that made this day possible.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget released this statement following House passage of H.R. 8: “For the first time in many decades, earlier today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019. When enacted into law, H.R. 8 would require background checks on all firearm sales. For example, the bill closes the gun show loophole, that reality of federal law that exempts background checks by private retailers, common at gun shows. This principle enjoys wide, bipartisan support. Our country is awash in guns and the American people are demanding that action to be taken to curb the scourge of gun violence in our country. This is why commonsense background checks legislation is so vital. H.R. 8 is so designated because it was introduced exactly eight years after my colleague, Gabby Giffords, was seriously wounding during a mass shooting at a constituent event in Tucson, Arizona, which left six persons killed and over a dozen injured. Through her bravery, courage and leadership, Gabby Giffords helped lead the charge that made this day possible. I commend all who helped make today a reality, including the tireless advocacy of Moms Demand Action, Everytown for Gun Safety and the brave survivors of the tragedy at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, whose courage and determination last year organized the March for our Lives. “I commend Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor and my colleagues for supporting it. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this legislation—which is backed by overwhelming majorities of the American people—and for the President to sign it into law.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
02.25.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 22, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on her Original Co-Sponsorship of a Congressional Resolution Objecting to a National Emergency Over a Border Wall Jackson Lee—“The President has been fearmongering about a ‘crisis’ at our southern border for many months, since well-before the midterm election that repudiated his policies in a crushing defeat that yielded the largest group of Democrats to come to Congress, since the Watergate Class of 1974. Since that time, our nation has endured the Trump Shutdown—the longest shutdown in American history—which caused more than $11 billion in damage to our economy, and devastated the lives of countless others.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the introduction of H.J. Res. 46, a congressional resolution, of which she is an original cosponsor, terminating the imaginary national emergency declared by the President: “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of H.J. Res 46, the resolution to terminate the President’s unlawful and dangerous emergency declaration that would steal tens of millions of urgently needed Department of Defense military construction funds critical to the security of our nation and the well-being of our men and women in uniform and military families. This privileged resolution would terminate the emergency declaration under the authority provided in the National Emergencies Act (NEA). The House will pass the resolution on Tuesday, after which it will be sent to the Senate and then to the President’s desk. “The President’s emergency declaration was a desperate power grab that violates the Constitution and makes America less safe. The President failed to convince Mexico or the American people or the Congress to pay for his ineffective, wasteful, and immoral multi-billion vanity project, and now he’s going outside the bounds of the law to try to make good on his campaign applause line. It is absolutely unacceptable that military families and communities in Houston and throughout Texas should be made to suffer from this unlawful, dangerous action.” “The President has been fearmongering about a ‘crisis’ at our southern border for many months, since well-before the midterm election that repudiated his policies in a crushing defeat that yielded the largest group of Democrats to come to Congress, since the Watergate Class of 1974. Since that time, our nation has endured the Trump Shutdown—the longest shutdown in American history—which caused more than $11 billion in damage to our economy, and devastated the lives of countless others. “This issue transcends politics, and is about patriotism. I am proud to join Members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans alike, to uphold the Constitution, and defend our system of checks and balances. Our families deserve leaders in Washington who will respect the Constitution, and fight to defend our national security.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.21.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 21, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement following the Arrest of a United States Coast Guard Officer on Charges of Domestic Terrorism WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and a senior member of the Helsinki Commission released this statement: “Yesterday’s arrest of a Coast Guard officer in a plot to target Democratic members of Congress and members of the media is troubling. I am also deeply troubled by the contents of a letter written by the suspect quoted by prosecutors, reflecting the desire to start a race war targeting non-whites. I implore all who hear words of hate and intolerance to disregard them and I urge all who contribute to hateful rhetoric to pause and consider the impact their words have on those listening. “The arrest of this Coast Guard officer is also disturbing as the plot revealed by law enforcement is similar to an earlier plot concocted last year by another deranged individual, who mailed pipe bombs to individuals identified by the President as “enemies of the people.” And, yesterday’s arrest comes on the same day that the President renewed his attack on the New York Times, dubbing it “enemy of the people,” after it published a lengthy expose detailing the president’s pattern of obstruction of justice during the first two years of his administration. Thereafter, the publisher of the New York Times criticized the President’s language and warned him that the language was reminiscent of that employed by dictators and authoritarians. “This type of language, and prolonged denigration of the free press is inconsistent with American ideals, and unbecoming of a President of the United States. I call upon him to cease and desist immediately.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
02.19.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Fourth Annual Houston Sun African American History Month Parade and Symposium Jackson Lee—“I have long maintained that our strength comes from our diversity, and this credo is one of many celebrated in this citywide parade. I would like to commend the organizers of this parade, the Houston Sun and Dorris Ellis, for their steadfast commitment to the ideals of this parade, and their dedication and tenacity in ensuring that this event is one enjoyed, annually, by the community we call home.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the eve of the Houston Sun’s fourth annual African American History Month Parade and Symposium: “It is a distinct pleasure to congratulate the organizers of the 4th Annual African American History Month Parade and Symposium. February is a special month as we take a moment to recognize and honor the contributions of African Americans to the vibrancy, richness and diversity of the nation we all love. Indeed, there are fewer cities better suited to host this parade than Houston, the fourth largest city in the nation, and home to one of the most diverse populations in the country. “Our strength comes from our diversity, and this credo is one of many celebrated in this citywide parade. I would like to commend the organizers of this parade, the Houston Sun and Dorris Ellis, for their steadfast commitment to the ideals of this parade, and their dedication and tenacity in ensuring that this event is one enjoyed, annually, by the community we call home. “I also commend the organizers for the second half of the program—a symposium at Texas Southern University at the School of Public Affairs named for two of my predecessors in my role as Representative for the Eighteenth District of Texas—Mickey Leland, and my mentor Barbara Jordan. I am pleased that this event will occur again this year, and a new cross-section of Houstonians are exposed to the worthy contributions of African Americans to our nation, and the service of Mickey Leland and Barbara Jordan to the city we all know and love, and call home.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.19.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Fourth Annual Houston Sun African American History Month Parade and Symposium Jackson Lee—“I have long maintained that our strength comes from our diversity, and this credo is one of many celebrated in this citywide parade. I would like to commend the organizers of this parade, the Houston Sun and Doris Ellis, for their steadfast commitment to the ideals of this parade, and their dedication and tenacity in ensuring that this event is one enjoyed, annually, by the community we call home.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the eve of the Houston Sun’s fourth annual African American History Month Parade and Symposium: “It is a distinct pleasure to congratulate the organizers of the 4th Annual African American History Month Parade and Symposium. February is a special month as we take a moment to recognize and honor the contributions of African Americans to the vibrancy, richness and diversity of the nation we all love. Indeed, there are fewer cities better suited to host this parade than Houston, the fourth largest city in the nation, and home to one of the most diverse populations in the country. “Our strength comes from our diversity, and this credo is one of many celebrated in this citywide parade. I would like to commend the organizers of this parade, the Houston Sun and Doris Ellis, for their steadfast commitment to the ideals of this parade, and their dedication and tenacity in ensuring that this event is one enjoyed, annually, by the community we call home. “I also commend the organizers for the second half of the program—a symposium at Texas Southern University at the School of Public Affairs named for two of my predecessors in my role as Representative for the Eighteenth District of Texas—Mickey Leland, and my mentor Barbara Jordan. I am pleased that this event will occur again this year, and a new cross-section of Houstonians are exposed to the worthy contributions of African Americans to our nation, and the service of Mickey Leland and Barbara Jordan to the city we all know and love, and call home.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.19.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement On the Announcement that Houston will soon be Home to an Ismaili Cultural Center WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and a senior member of the Helsinki Commission released this statement: “Houston is home to one of the nation’s largest Ismaili Muslim populations in the country, with an estimated 40,000 members. That is why I was pleased to learn that Houston will be the first city in the United States to build an Ismaili Cultural Center in the heart of the city. It will be a place of unity where Houston community members of all backgrounds and walks of life will be able to learn, pray, and engage in fellowship with one another. The center will serve as an institutional, intellectual and cultural center for the Shia Ismaili Muslim community that is present in the United States. “The center strives to embody a spirit of tolerance, diversity and learning. It will also include a Jamatkhana that will be designated for prayer and spiritual contemplation. In addition to prayer rooms, the center is expected to have educational spaces, a social hall, and several multi-purpose meeting and conference spaces, as well as the artistic incorporation of green space. The center will be located in the Montrose Boulevard area that is frequented very often and right in the heart of the city, where many community members will be able to enjoy this grand architectural landmark. I commend all who made this possible and I wish all involved much success in shepherding this project to completion.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
02.19.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement On the Terrorist Attack in Pulwama, India WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, a senior member of the Helsinki Commission and a senior member of the Congressional India Caucus released this statement: “Yesterday, a suicide car bomber launched a terrorist attack in Indian Kashmir. In the town of Pulwama, a vehicle armed with a bomb rammed into a bus full of Indian soldiers, killing 44 and injuring several others. This attack is the deadliest single incident in decades involving Indian security forces. Shortly after this cowardly attack, the militant group Jaish-e-Muhammed, acclaimed responsibility. The United States stands with its ally India in coping with this barbaric act of terrorism. “Terrorism is a scourge on civilized society and must be rejected. As a senior member of the House of Representatives, the Helsinki Commission and the Congressional India Caucus, I stand with my brothers and sisters and condemn this dastardly attack.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
02.15.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 14, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following House Vote to Keep Government Open and Avoid a Second Trump Shutdown Jackson Lee—“The Trump administration’s treatment of immigrants is unconscionable and inhumane. Congress can put a stop to this in passing a strong DHS appropriations bill. Members of Congress are watching the Trump administration closely. If DHS tries to go around Congress to increase immigration detention and enforcement, either by transfer, reprogramming, or other measure, we will hold them accountable. The FY20 appropriations bill will be the first one written by Democrats and will require support from all corners of our caucus to pass it. I will not support a bill that does not include meaningful reforms and progressive priorities, including decreases in Trump’s mass deportation force; robust and meaningful accountability, oversight, and transparency of DHS; and restoration of critical U.S. humanitarian protections. Until that time, I will support this bill and keep government open.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following a field hearing of the House Subcommittee on Administration and Elections in Brownsville, Texas: “Earlier this evening, the House of Representatives voted to keep government and avert a second government shutdown in as many months. Following an earlier vote in the Senate, the legislation now heads to the President for his signature. I certainly hope that the President signs the bill and averts a second trump shutdown. The president does not consider this evening’s legislation in a vacuum. Almost two months ago, the President was presented with a deal that is substantially similar to the one the President rejected, and one which produced the first trump shutdown—the longest shutdown of our federal government in its history. That shutdown lasted five weeks, and caused a loss of $11 billion dollars from our national economy. The cause of the impasse between the President and Congress centered around the President’s oft-repeated promise that he would build a wall at the southern border and that it would be paid for by the citizens of Mexico. When the President realized that the American people or their elected representatives would not pay for the wall, the President threw a temper tantrum that had devastating consequences across the country and in my home state of Texas, which included: 35,694 employees in agencies without appropriations funded; 3.7 million participants affected by the disruption in SNAP; 9,000 Treasury Department employees, 5,700 Homeland Security employees and 4,300 employees of the Department of Transportation stationed in Texas, who were affected by this shutdown, including the hardworking employees of the Transportation Safety Administration with whom I visit on my trips between Washington, D.C. and the Eighteenth District of Texas. “In order to avoid this calamity once again, Democrats have responsibly brought to the floor a bill to fund the government, so as to avoid the consequences wrought by the last Trump Shutdown. Specifically, the bill seeks to fund many of the programs on which Americans rely and for which they expect their government to work for them. For example, the bill does not give money for the concrete wall that the president relentlessly promised. This bill continues language allowing only fencing designs in use as of 2017 and prohibits construction on sensitive environmental areas such as the Bentsen-Rio State Park, the National Butterfly Center, the Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge, La Lomita Historical Park, and the Lower Rio Grande Wildlife Refuge between Brownsville, TX, and the Gulf of Mexico. “The bill improves transparency by requiring ICE to make public information about the numbers and types of people in its custody, such as families; border apprehension detainees; interior enforcement detainees; and those who are in custody who have a positive credible fear claim. It also prohibits DHS from preventing a member of Congress from entering any facility that is used to detain or otherwise house children and direct DHS to make no changes to the current operations and facility conditions in anticipation of a congressional oversight visit. “Moreover, this bill: prevents DHS from destroying any record related to potential sexual assault or abuse of any individual in DHS’s custody; prohibits ICE from using information provided by the Office of Refugee Resettlement about sponsors or potential sponsors of unaccompanied children to arrest, detain, or remove those individuals, unless that information reveals the individual has a dangerous criminal background; prevents DHS from placing pregnant women in restraints who are in the custody of DHS, except in extraordinary circumstances; and it provides oversight of ICE treatment of detainees, including protections for pregnant refugees, prohibiting destruction of detainee sexual assault records, and public reporting related to detainees in ICE custody. “This bill also funds discretionary funding for Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) WIC, which is $100 million below the FY2018 enacted level and $325 million above the President’s budget request. It also provides &73.477 billion for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which will fully fund the program in 2019. And, it provides $23.141 billion for Child Nutrition Programs, which will fully fund the program in 2019. Moreover, it provides $1.716 billion for Food for Peace and $210.255 million for the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program. And, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is funded at $3.08 billion in discretionary funding for the FDA, an increase of $269 million. “This bill also funds the Departments of Commerce, Justice and related agencies. As the 2020 census approaches, this bill provides money for the Census Bureau, which will enable it to effectively prepare for a thorough, accurate, and cost-effective 2020 Decennial Census. As Hurricane season is just a few months away, the bill also funds NOAA climate research and monies for the National Weather Service. “As a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, I am pleased that the bill also funds, at increases over the last fiscal year, the following components of the Justice Department: the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the United States Attorneys; the United States Marshals Service; the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. And, critically, it funds $3.02 billion in grants in the following amounts to the following agencies: the following grants to state $423.5 million for Byrne JAG; $303.5 million for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program; $178 million to address sexual assault kit and other DNA evidence backlogs; $87.5 million for Second Chance Act programs; $347 million for grant programs to address the opioid crisis; $100 million for the STOP School Violence Act; $497.5 million for Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) programs; and $75 million for grants to improve the NICS firearms background check system. And, as a member of the House of Representatives from Houston, this bill critically funds NASA at $21.5 billion, an increase of $763.9 million above the FY 2018 enacted level and $1.6 billion above the President’s budget request. This bill also funds the national parks, the Smithsonian institutions, our diplomatic corps and our commitments to global peace and global health. “The collateral damage caused by the Trump Shutdown was substantial, long lasting, and unnecessary because it could have been avoided had the President not reneged on his promise to sign the continuing resolution passed by the Senate unanimously on December 19, 2018. Instead, the President callously shut down the government for 35 days, furloughing 800,000 civil servants and forcing nearly half that many to work without pay, which cost the national economy more than $11 billion in lost productivity and economic output. Because the President broke his promise, frontline federal employees, including law enforcement and public safety personnel, worked without pay from December 22 through January 25, 2019. “The way these federal workers, many of whom risk their lives in the service of this country, were treated was shameful. The shutdown forced some employees to look for new jobs or take on extra work, and the pressure was immense for employees and families with no other source of income. Among those not receiving a pay check for their work were 3,200 Secret Service agents who risk their lives every single day to protect the President and his family. In addition to the federal employees working without pay, hardworking federal employees at agencies like the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Agriculture, and NASA had been furloughed without pay, plunging them and their families into uncertainty. Shutting down the Government of the United States, or any portion thereof, is not an acceptable tactic or strategy for resolving differences regarding policy, funding levels, or governing philosophy. It should never happen again. Given the damage mercilessly inflicted on the American people and the economy by the Trump Shutdown, Congress has a fiduciary duty to the American people to ensure the continued, uninterrupted operations of the Government of the United States and its services. This is why I voted to keep government open. “As we work towards FY20 appropriations, it is critical that we ensure robust accountability of DHS, including limiting the agency’s transfer authority, and dramatically reducing the number of people that are held in detention—utilizing proven alternatives to detention, including community-based alternatives and parole, for the vast majority of people who are held in detention and pose no public safety or flight risk. ICE’s overuse of detention is both expensive and cruel and it must end. The Trump administration’s treatment of immigrants is unconscionable and inhumane. Congress can put a stop to this in passing a strong DHS appropriations bill. Members of Congress are watching the Trump administration closely. If DHS tries to go around Congress to increase immigration detention and enforcement, either by transfer, reprogramming, or other measure, we will hold them accountable. The FY20 appropriations bill will be the first one written by Democrats and will require support from all corners of our caucus to pass it. I will not support a bill that does not include meaningful reforms and progressive priorities, including decreases in Trump’s mass deportation force; robust and meaningful accountability, oversight, and transparency of DHS; and restoration of critical U.S. humanitarian protections. Until that time, I will support this bill and keep government open.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.14.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 14, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the One Year Anniversary of the Mass Shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida Jackson Lee—“Spurred in part by the advocacy of Parkland survivors, voters recognized the impetus to do something and delivered one of the largest freshman classes in the history of the Congress, fueled by the largest margin of victory ever. And change is on its way. Last night, after a marathon hearing of the House Judiciary Committee, the new Democratic majority passed the first piece of gun violence prevention legislation in a quarter-century.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the one-year anniversary of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida: “One year ago, a gunman entered the grounds of the campus where he was enrolled as a student and shot and killed 17 of his fellow classmates and faculty leaders. Another 17 were injured. “The advocacy of those who survived the carnage at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida inspired the country to act and say enough is enough. Just one month after the shooting, those who survived organized a nationwide March For Our Lives which drew almost a million people to our nation’s capital, and countless millions more across the country. One survivor, Emma Gonzales presciently admonished us to fight for our lives before it becomes someone else’s job. “But, our collective national response has been fleeting. To say that senseless gun violence has been abated is not correct. In the year since the Parkland Massacre, we have lost another 1,200 children to gun violence, and thousands of other Americans. “Yet, there is hope. Spurred in part by the advocacy of Parkland survivors, voters recognized the impetus to do something and delivered one of the largest freshman classes in the history of the Congress, fueled by the largest margin of victory ever. And, change is on its way. Last night, after a marathon hearing of the House Judiciary Committee, the New Democratic majority passed the first piece of gun control legislation in many decades.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.14.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 13, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on FEMA’s Announcement of Reduced rent for Eligible Households in Temporary Housing Units Jackson Lee—“This is a welcome development for the countless Houstonians and Texans still impacted by Harvey and still rebuilding their lives. For more information on applying for reduced rent, be connected with a FEMA caseworker, and submit documentation to femadr4332txrent@fema.dhs.gov. FEMA also has a Helpline available from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. every day: 800-621-3362 or TTY 800-642-7585. During the extension period, rental payments are required to be made and residents must also continue to make progress on their permanent housing plan. Failure to do so can result in being ineligible for the temporary housing program. Hurricane Harvey survivors can find an extensive list of resources at https://go.usa.gov/xENrp.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following the announcement of the resignation of Brock Long as Director of FEMA: “It is important that all Hurricane Harvey survivors who are currently living in temporary housing units provided by FEMA and the Texas General Land Office be eligible for reduced rent. Hurricane Harvey ravaged Houston, and dumped close to 60 inches of rain, claimed 68 lives, and caused upwards of $125 billion of damage. Indeed, Texans are still reeling from this calamity, as evidenced by the countless individuals and families still displaced from the storm, almost a year-and-a-half after the disaster made landfall. “According to FEMA, current residents must relocate by February 25, 2019. Families who wish to remain in their units past February 25 and cannot afford Fair Market Rent may be able to have their rent reduced as low as $50 per month. A family’s eligibility for reduced rent will be determined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) guidelines. Currently HUD defines low-income families as those with incomes that do not exceed 80% of the median family income for the area. The current median family income for Harris County is $74,900 a year. For a family of four, to meet the income requirement, their annual income cannot exceed $59,900. The reduced rent amount is based on the resident’s financial ability to pay, household size, housing expenses, and adjusted income for all adult occupants. “This is a welcome development for the countless Houstonians and Texans still impacted by Harvey and still rebuilding their lives. For more information on applying for reduced rent, be connected with a FEMA caseworker, and submit documentation to femadr4332txrent@fema.dhs.gov. FEMA also has a Helpline available from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. every day: 800-621-3362 or TTY 800-642-7585. During the extension period, rental payments are required to be made and residents must also continue to make progress on their permanent housing plan. Failure to do so can result in being ineligible for the temporary housing program. Hurricane Harvey survivors can find an extensive list of resources at https://go.usa.gov/xENrp.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.14.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 13, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Resignation of Brock Long as the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency Jackson Lee—“Director Long has indicated that his resignation was fueled by a desire to go home to his family. I wish him well in his endeavors and I expect that whomever is nominated by the President to succeed Director Long is subjected to a fulsome, searching inquiry.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following the announcement of the resignation of Brock Long as Director of FEMA: “Earlier today, Brock Long announced his resignation from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, after less than 21 months as its Director. “Director Long leaves FEMA after a dubious tenure that included multiple lethal wildfires across the nation, and no fewer than five major hurricanes, including Hurricane Harvey, which ravaged my hometown of Houston, and dumped close to 60 inches of rain, claiming 68 lives, and causing upwards of $125 billion of damage. Indeed, Texans are still reeling from this calamity, as evidenced by the countless individuals and families still displaced from the storm, almost a year-and-a-half after the disaster made landfall. “To be certain, Director Long’s tenure at FEMA was not without its problems. The damage wrought by Harvey, and FEMA’s response to it, led me to conclude that FEMA needed wholesale reorganization, which is why I will reintroduce the FEMA Reorganization and Modernization Act. Unfortunately, Director Long’s tenure was marked by other episodes of incompetence. Hurricane Maria was another moment where FEMA did not do its best. Spurred, assuredly, by the President’s incessant need to minimize any of his wrongdoing, FEMA produced an undercount of the fatalities caused by Maria. When the nonpartisan George Washington University promulgated its own study, the true number of fatalities was revealed to be thousands more than what was disclosed by the Administration. And, as the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Maria drew closer and another hurricane bore down on the United States, Director Long presided over a $10 million diversion of FEMA funds to the Immigration Customs Enforcement agency. And, consistent with the monumental graft that has epitomized this administration, Director Long was accused of using government vehicles for personal use. “Director Long has indicated that his resignation was fueled by a desire to go home to his family. I wish him well in his endeavors and I expect that whomever is nominated by the President to succeed Director Long is subjected to a fulsome, searching inquiry.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.12.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 11, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Death of John D. Dingell, Jr—One of the Greatest Legislators in Our Nation’s History and the Longest Serving Member of the United States House of Representatives Jackson Lee—“But, as we mourn his passing, we also celebrate a great American life. One that saw fidelity to the civic virtues that strengthen our nation, and make it great. John Dingell fought and helped defeat the Nazis as a member of the Greatest Generation. As he reminded us in his farewell message published after his passing, his work was not done alone, and the fight to make ours a more perfect union requires the work of Democrats as well as Republicans, who put country over party. And, of course, he was grateful for his most steadfast supporter—his wife, Deborah—who would be by his side for the last forty years, who would continue the proud Dingell family tradition of representing southeast Michigan in the United States Congress, and whose strength, wisdom and fearlessness has shown the world why it was that the great John Dingell made her his bride those many years ago.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the death of former Congressman John D. Dingell, Jr.: “I mourn the passing of John D. Dingell, of Michigan, whom we lost on Thursday at the age of 92. John was a giant of the house—in stature, legacy and service. A tall figure, John retired in 2015 after 59 years and 21 days of service—an unmatched record which stands as the longest tenure of any member in the history of the House of Representatives. “During his unparalleled record of service, Congressman Dingell helped shape and cast votes on virtually every landmark piece of legislation of the last half century. And as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee for sixteen years, he helmed one of the most powerful committees on Capitol Hill and successfully shepherded passage of the Endangered Species Act, the Clean Air Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act, among other pieces of legislation. Of course, as was the tradition of the Congressman’s predecessor—his father, John D. Dingell, Sr.—Congressman Dingell introduced at the beginning of every Congress legislation providing for universal healthcare, and he presided over the House Chamber during the historic 1965 vote to pass Medicare. But, as he once stated in an interview before he would leave us, he counts his vote for the 1964 Civil Rights Act as the one for which he is proudest. That is the man we lost, and the man whom we mourn this week in Dearborn and Washington, D.C.” “But, as we mourn his passing, we also celebrate a great American life. One that saw fidelity to the civic virtues that strengthen our nation, and make it great. John Dingell fought and helped defeat the Nazis as a member of the Greatest Generation. As he reminded us in his farewell message published after his passing, his work was not done alone, and the fight to make ours a more perfect union requires the work of Democrats as well as Republicans, who put country over party. And, of course, he was grateful for his most steadfast supporter—his wife, Deborah—who would be by his side for the last forty years, who would continue the proud Dingell family tradition of representing southeast Michigan in the United States Congress, and whose strength, wisdom and fearlessness has shown the world why it was that the great John Dingell made her his bride those many years ago.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.12.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 12, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Introduction of the FAMILY Act Jackson Lee—“I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this meaningful legislation, which is long overdue. Passing the FAMILY Act is a commonsense way to bring a greater level of security and peace of mind to hardworking Americans eager to help out family when the need arises, but may feel unable to do so because of the obligations of their professional responsibilities. Paid family leave should be the law of our land. I commend introduction of this bill, am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this legislation and look forward to working towards its final passage.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the introduction of the FAMILY Act: “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the FAMILY Act, and I applaud its reintroduction in the 116th Congress. As has been documented for too long and experienced by too many, people are working harder for less take home pay, which in turn makes it harder for families to invest in their future. And, for many family leave is not an option—a mere 17 percent of the workforce has paid family leave through their employers, and less than 40 percent has personal medical leave through an employer-provided disability program. When people have to forgo pay or lose a job when a serious medical or caregiving need arises, they often jeopardize their ability to afford even the most basic necessities. This hurts workers, their families and the businesses that suffer from increased turnover. “This is why I am proud to support the FAMILY Act. This bill addresses the need for a national paid leave that will allow people to receive a portion of their pay when the demands of family necessitate leave from work. Permitting this would unquestionably result in significant benefits for their families, business and our economy. If enacted into law, this bill would establish a national paid leave insurance program; provide eligible employees with up to 12 weeks of partial income to address their own serious health condition, including pregnancy or childbirth; to deal with the serious health condition of a parent, spouse, domestic partner or child; to care for a new child; and/or specific military caregiving and leave purposes; and its wage replacement rate builds on lessons from state paid leave programs in California, New Jersey and Rhode Island to help ensure that caregiving time is affordable for lower-wage workers. “The time for this meaningful legislation is long overdue. Passing the FAMILY Act is a commonsense way to bring a greater level of security and peace of mind to individuals eager to help out family when the need arises, but may feel unable to do so because of the obligations of their professional responsibilities. Paid family leave should be the law of our land. I commend introduction of this bill, am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this legislation and look forward to working towards its final passage.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.12.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 12, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Announcement by the House Judiciary Committee of Special Oversight Consultants Jackson Lee—“With the retention of these experts, I look forward to continuing my efforts to hold this presidential administration accountable, as I did last Friday during what has been dubbed the “first real oversight hearing” of this presidential administration. As the coming days and weeks unfold, and as I explained to the Acting Attorney General on Friday, I hope this administration understands that members of the House Judiciary Committee are not joking around about oversight and that this is indeed a serious matter.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the announcement by the House Judiciary Committee of its retention of Special Oversight Counsels to consult on oversight matters within the jurisdiction of the House Judiciary Committee: “For over two years, due to the abdication of its constitutional responsibility by members of the House GOP, a president sorely in need of oversight has managed to avoid it. Republicans in Congress looked the other way when revelations came to light about the President’s likely ongoing violations of the Emoluments Clause; they were uninterested when news of this administration’s cruel and immoral child separation policy at our southern border became known to the world; and, when the American public came to learn alarming and troubling connections between Russia and its interference in the 2016 election, and whether that crime was aided and abetted by associates of the Trump campaign, House Republicans conducted no oversight. Fortunately, the American people were paying attention and in November delivered the largest electoral margin of victory in history, and Democrats were swept into the House majority and with it, this president lost his ability to evade oversight. “Accordingly, the House Judiciary Committee is determined to provide rigorous oversight that has been absent. It is our responsibility—and indeed our constitutional duty—to ask critical and difficult questions, follow the facts, and facilitate and ensure transparency. This is why I applaud and commend the decision to hire Norm Eisen and Barry Burke as Special Oversight Counsels. Barry and Norm are considered two of the nation’s preeminent legal authorities, especially as it relates public corruption, government ethics and criminal law. These two individuals are renowned legal scholars, and are respected across the political spectrum for their integrity and objectivity. The House Judiciary Committee will undoubtedly be enhanced by these hires. “With the retention of these experts, I look forward to continuing my efforts to hold this presidential administration accountable, as I did last Friday during what has been dubbed the “first real oversight hearing” of this presidential administration. As the coming days and weeks unfold, and as I explained to the Acting Attorney General, I hope this administration understands that members of the House Judiciary Committee are not joking around about oversight and that this is indeed a serious matter.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.04.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 1, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Applauds and Welcomes Reforms to the Cash Bail System in Harris County Jackson Lee—“Cash bail is the practice of denying pre-trial release to arrestees who lack the monetary funds to post bail. It is a regressive and antiquated relic. It holds people hostage for crimes for which others would be released. It has a disparate impact on the poor, and communities of color. One finding, by Chief Judge Lee Rosenthal, of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, cited research that found that holding poor people in detention because they could not afford cash bail led people to lose their jobs and that judges were ostensibly exacerbating rates of recidivism.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget and Homeland Security, issued this statement praising reforms to the bail system in Harris County: “I applaud today’s announcement regarding the system of cash bail in Harris County and in Houston, and the decision to eliminate cash bail in most instances involving misdemeanor offenses. “Cash bail is the practice of denying pre-trial release to arrestees who lack the monetary funds to post bail. It is a regressive and antiquated relic. It holds people hostage for crimes for which others would be released. It has a disparate impact on the poor, and communities of color. One finding, by Chief Judge Lee Rosenthal, of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, cited research that found that holding poor people in detention because they could not afford cash bail led people to lose their jobs and that judges were ostensibly exacerbating rates of recidivism. “The apparatus eventually led to class-action litigation, and that civil action yielded a positive outcome, aided in part by the sweeping victory enjoyed by a slate of judges who were swept into office. As part of a proposed settlement to the litigation, and demonstrating that change can come if voters are empowered, the new slate of judges promptly proposed reforms to the bail system. The hallmark of these reforms is a system where the vast majority of individuals—85%—arrested on nonviolent misdemeanor offenses qualify for release on no cash bail. The balance of arrestees, for crimes such as bond violations, repeat offenses for drunk driving, and certain domestic violence offenses would not be eligible under these new rules. Pursuant to the settlement, and with the consent of stakeholders in Harris County, the reforms were presented to Chief Judge Rosenthal for ratification. I applaud these reforms because they portend that the criminal justice system will no longer penalize indigence in certain instances. They serve as a model for states across the nation. As a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and a senior member of the House Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, I have advocated for and intend to introduce legislation that addresses bail reform at the federal level. In the meanwhile, I applaud the progress of Harris County.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
02.04.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 1, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Reversal by the Department of Justice in Abbott v. Perez Jackson Lee—“The decision to reverse this position is inexplicable and suspect for two reasons: first it belies a central tenet of our justice system, that decisions are made apolitically; and it is indicative of a larger pattern of this administration outsourcing the administration of justice to special interests.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the decision of the United States Department of Justice to reverse its position in Abbott v. Perez: “The Trump Administration’s assault on the Voting Rights Act continued on the announcement by this President’s political appointees at the Justice Department to reverse the Department’s position on a critical voting rights case emanating from the state of Texas. The case at issue, Abbott v. Perez, has had a circuitous path through our federal courts, including a hearing last year before the Supreme Court, and deals with the manner in which legislative districts at the state and federal level are drawn, and representation apportioned. Individuals challenging the districts drawn in Abbott indicated that they were drawn for a discriminatory intent or purpose. In Abbott, the Court indicated that challengers to the drawn districts had not sufficiently proven racial discrimination, despite the fact prior courts had ruled these districts, substantially similar to those upheld by the Supreme Court, were discriminatory. In this respect, Justice Sonia Sotomayor’s dissent was instructive: ‘[t]he [Court] today does great damage to [the] right of equal opportunity. Not because it denies the existence of that right, but because it refuses its enforcement.’ To add insult to injury, the timing of Abbott v. Perez was also rather odious as the decision came exactly five years after Shelby County v. Holder, in which the Supreme Court struck down a critical provision of the landmark Voting Rights Act with assurances that despite its ruling, there would remain legal provisions to safeguard the voting rights of minority voters. The ruling in Abbott hollowed that assurance. Following its ruling and in light of it, the Supreme Court directed the case sent back to the lower courts for further consideration. It is at this juncture that the Justice Department made its move, and reversed its long-held position. “Since litigation in this matter began, and going as far back as 2010 in the administration of President Barack Obama and through the current administration, the position of the Department of the Justice has been that the entire state of Texas should be subject to preclearance. Put another way, this stricture required federal ratification that any change to the manner in which elections were held in Texas were not made with a discriminatory intent or for a discriminatory purpose. “The decision to reverse this position is inexplicable and suspect for two reasons: first it belies a central tenet of our justice system, that decisions are made apolitically; and it is indicative of a larger pattern of this administration outsourcing the administration of justice to special interests. Rather than facilitating a system where voters choose their elected representatives, the Justice Department’s reversal all but guarantees that it condones a system where the elected officials choose their voters, to the detriment of “one person, one vote.” I implore the Department of Justice to reconsider its reversal and reposition itself as the premier law enforcement agency for all Americans, irrespective of race, so that all can have be invested in the notion that this is a nation of, by and for the people.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.04.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand February 1, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Administration’s Withdrawal from the INF Treaty Jackson Lee—“Rather than merely suspending the United States from this critical compact, the Administration should exhaust all possible efforts to resolve this matter without suspending our obligations to a treaty, and work along with our allies in NATO—the most successful military alliance in the history of the world—so as to avoid a dangerous arms race with the former Soviet Union.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, issued this statement on the announcement by the Secretary of State to suspend the United States from the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty: “Today’s announcement by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that the United States plans to temporarily suspend its obligations under the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty is concerning. The move risks an arms race at a delicate time between the United States and Russia, and the act has the potential to undermine international security and the global world order. “Russia’s noncompliance with this treaty has been persistent, brazen, and especially troubling in the face of an investigation here at home about Russia’s subversion in our democracy and whether and to what extent that effort was aided and abetted by members of the Trump Campaign. Moreover, Russia’s noncompliance is all the more troubling in the face of comments made by our Commander in Chief that undermine NATO and the place of western democracies in maintaining the post-World War II order. Yet, despite this, withdrawing the United States from this critical treaty is not the answer, as it disrupts global security and creates unacceptable and unknown risks. Rather than merely suspending the United States from this critical compact, the Administration should exhaust all possible efforts to resolve this matter without suspending our obligations to a treaty, and work along with our allies in NATO—the most successful military alliance in the history of the world—so as to avoid a dangerous arms race.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
02.04.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 31, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on Today’s Announcement of a Drug Bust at a Port of Entry in Nogales, Arizona Jackson Lee: “Today’s announcement is important not just because it stopped the flow of illegal drugs, but because it confirms what experts have long maintained—that illicit drugs enter our borders through legal ports of entry, and not through the desert where the President would like his border wall built.” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement following today’s announcement of a drug arrest at a port of entry in Nogales, Arizona: “Earlier today, Customs and Border Protection Officers patrolling a port of entry in Nogales, Arizona, conducted the largest drug bust of fentanyl in the history of the United States. I commend the hard work of our federal law enforcement, many of whom just worked for five weeks without pay because of the Trump Shutdown. “Today’s announcement also underscores a critical issue in the debate about a border wall the president promised during his campaign for the office, and a wall that the President repeatedly indicated Mexico would pay for. The President has repeatedly stated that the country’s drug epidemic is enabled, in part, by a porous southern border, which can only be ameliorated by a southern border wall. The President has repeated this falsehood, even in the face of compelling evidence from his own administration contradicting him on this critical point. “Today’s announcement is important not just because it stopped the flow of illegal drugs, but because it confirms what experts have long maintained—that illicit drugs enter our borders through legal ports of entry, and not through the desert where the President would like his border wall built. It is critical that, as legislators work to prevent another Trump Shutdown, all should keep in mind today’s announcement and remember that a wall is not effective and that to secure our border, we must invest in personnel, resources and other proven tactics which will secure our border and keep our country safe.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget.
02.04.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 30, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Introduction of the Paycheck Fairness Act Jackson Lee: “As a Member of the Women’s Caucus I have been fighting for pay equity for American women since before I arrived here as a Representative in 1995, and I believe that equal pay for equal work is a simple matter of justice. Wage disparities are not simply a result of women’s education levels or life choices. In fact, the pay gap between college educated men and women appears first after college—even when women are working full-time in the same fields with the same major as men—and continues to widen during the first 10 years in the workforce.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, issued this statement on the introduction of the Paycheck Fairness Act: “In America, Women working full-time, year-round still earn 80 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by men. Women of color face the brunt of the inequality, with African American women earning 61 cents, Latinas earning 53 cents, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander women earning 62 cents compared with white, non-Hispanic men. This year marks the 10-year anniversary of President Barack Obama signing the Lily Ledbetter Act, which made it easier to sue in cases of pay discrimination. This legislation – the Paycheck Fairness Act – is one small step towards that end. The Paycheck Fairness Act, will strengthen the Equal Pay Act—passed more than 45 years ago—and as a result improve the law’s effectiveness, and help to address the persistent wage gap between men and women. I am proud to be a sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act. “This Act is needed to stop discriminatory pay practices by employers against our mothers, wives, daughters, and granddaughters that do the same job as their male counterparts. The Paycheck Fairness Act would clarify acceptable reasons for differences in pay by requiring employers to demonstrate that wage gaps between men and women doing the same work are truly a result of factors other than sex; and deter wage discrimination by strengthening penalties for equal pay violations, and by prohibiting retaliation against workers who inquire about employers’ wage practices or disclose their own wages. “The bill’s measured approach would ensure that women can obtain the same remedies as those subject to discrimination on the basis of race or national origin. It would provide women with a fair option to proceed in a class action suit under the Equal Pay Act, and allow women to receive punitive and compensatory damages for pay discrimination. It would also clarify the establishment provision under the Equal Pay Act, which would allow for reasonable comparisons between employees to determine fair wages. The bill would authorize additional training for Equal Employment Opportunity Commission staff to better identify and handle wage disputes. The bill will aid in the efficient and effective enforcement of federal anti-pay discrimination laws by requiring the EEOC to develop regulations directing employers to collect wage data, reported by the race, sex, and national origin of employees. It would also require the U.S. Department of Labor to reinstate activities that promote equal pay, such as: directing educational programs, providing technical assistance to employers, recognizing businesses that address the wage gap, collecting wage-related data, at conducting and promoting research about pay disparities between men and women. “More importantly for our young ladies going into the workforce it will establish a competitive grant program to develop salary negotiation training for women and girls. As a Member of the Women’s Caucus I have been fighting for pay equity for American women since before I arrived here as a Representative in 1995, and I believe that equal pay for equal work is a simple matter of justice. Wage disparities are not simply a result of women’s education levels or life choices. In fact, the pay gap between college educated men and women appears first after college—even when women are working full-time in the same fields with the same major as men—and continues to widen during the first 10 years in the workforce. “Further, this persistent wage gap not only impacts the economic security of women and their families today, it also directly affects women’s retirement security tomorrow. Now is the time for additional proactive measures to effectively address wage discrimination and eliminate loopholes that have hindered the Equal Pay Act’s effectiveness. I urge my colleagues, both men and women to support equality in rights and pay for all Americans by supporting the Paycheck Fairness Act.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
02.04.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 30, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the introduction of Social Security 2100 Act Jackson Lee: “The purpose of this bill is to protect our Social Security system and improve benefits for current and future generations. This bill will expand benefits for all current and future Social Security recipients, cut taxes for almost 12 million seniors, and ensure the system remains solvent for the rest of the century. The US faces a retirement crisis and a modest boost in benefits offered by the Social Security 2100 Act strengthens the one leg of the retirement system that is universal and the most reliable.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, issued this statement on the passage of H.R. 495, legislation introduced by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, which was passed today by the House of Representatives: “Social Security is one of the most compelling features of our country’s social safety net. Its enactment has dramatically reshaped the future for many elderly Americans, and others who may find themselves in a vulnerable state. In my home state of Texas, we have almost 700,000 recipients of social security. In my home county of Harris county, which includes Houston—the fourth largest city in the country, approximately 100,000 individuals are on social security.” “But we also know that social security is in jeopardy of insolvency. This is why I have constantly introduced legislation which permits seniors on social security to have greater security. This is also one of the reasons I introduced H.R. 46, the Social Security Safety Dividend Act, which would ensure that seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities who receive Social Security and certain other Federal benefits receive a $250 payment in the event that no cost-of-living adjustment is payable in a calendar year. I introduced this bill because I know the system is under strain, and because the pending retirement of the baby boomers promises to put a strain the system—with more recipients than payees. “I am also proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Social Security 2100 Act. The purpose of this bill is to protect our Social Security system and improve benefits for current and future generations. This bill will expand benefits for all current and future Social Security recipients, cut taxes for almost 12 million seniors, and ensure the system remains solvent for the rest of the century. The US faces a retirement crisis and a modest boost in benefits offered by the Social Security 2100 Act strengthens the one leg of the retirement system that is universal and the most reliable. “There are many compelling features to this bill. For example, this bill improves the annual cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) formula to better reflect the costs incurred by seniors through adopting the Consumer Price Index for the Elderly (CPI-E) formula. This CPI-E formula improves inflation protection and will help seniors who spend a greater portion of their income on health care and other necessities. The Act will help all social security recipients, especially older retirees and widows who are more likely to rely on Social Security benefits as they age. “The Social Security 2100 Act will also protect low income workers by creating a new minimum benefit set at 25% above the poverty line that would be tied to wage levels to ensure that the minimum benefit does not fall behind. Almost 12 million Social Security recipients would benefit from receiving this tax cut. The Social Security 2100 Act ensures that any increase in benefits from the bill do not result in a reduction in SSI benefits or loss of eligibility for Medicaid or CHIP. The Social Security 2100 Act also strengthens the trust fund by having millionaires and billionaires pay the same rate as everyone else. “To pay for itself, this legislation will apply the payroll tax to wages above $400,000 which will only affect the top 0.4% of wage earners. The Social Security 2100 Act will gradually phase in the increase over 23 years which will add 50 cents per week for the average worker. The need to ensure that we are protecting our seniors is real, and in a time when people are facing immense stresses on their finances, the Social Security 2100 Act will help to that end. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation and urge my colleagues to support it.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
01.30.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 29, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Passage of H.R. 495 – the FIRST State and Local Law Enforcement Act Jackson Lee: “I introduced H.R. 495, the FIRST State and Local Law Enforcement Act, which was passed today by the House of Representatives. If passed by the Senate and enacted into law, this legislation would require the DHS to submit an annual report to Congress on its work. Requiring this report would not only provide metrics to assess the effectiveness of the office’s current work, but it would also include comprehensive information on existing programs and feedback from the law enforcement agencies. Moreover, this legislation would ensure future accountability of the DHS and its work with local partners.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, issued this statement on the passage of H.R. 495, legislation introduced by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, which was passed today by the House of Representatives: “A common issue when dealing with any threat assessment is information sharing. Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, a critical failure of our national security apparatus was the inability to share information among jurisdictions and law enforcement personnel. In the seventeen years after that national tragedy, I am proud to note that there has been real progress in closing this once prominent information-sharing gap. It is now common practice within the federal government to support policies that educate and empower our state and local partners. “To keep the Department of Homeland Security on that track, and as a senior member of the Committee on Homeland Security since its inception, I introduced H.R. 495, the FIRST State and Local Law Enforcement Act, which was passed today by the House of Representatives. If passed by the Senate and enacted into law, this legislation would require the DHS to submit an annual report to Congress on its work. Requiring this report would not only provide metrics to assess the effectiveness of the office’s current work, but it would also include comprehensive information on existing programs and feedback from the law enforcement agencies. Moreover, this legislation would ensure future accountability of the DHS and its work with local partners. “The landscape of the threats facing our country are constantly evolving. This challenge has taught all in law enforcement that proactive measures at all levels are essential to monitor the growth of and reflect upon our capability to combat crime and terror. State and local law enforcement provide tireless work to investigate and apprehend individuals of heinous crimes. It is our duty to ensure that they are able to do their best work in collaboration with their federal partners to keep our communities safe. I am pleased this bill passed the House of Representatives and will work to ensure passage by the Senate and eventual enactment.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
01.30.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 29, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Introduction of the Rodchenkov Act Jackson Lee: “Russia’s full-throated defiance of international norms and standards undermines the rule of law and demands the strongest of responses. The Putin regime uses strategic corruption to destabilize peaceful civil society, democratic institutions, and the alliances that have been the foundation of transatlantic peace and prosperity for the past 70-plus years. This long overdue bill would define doping for what it is: fraud. Never again should Russia or any other authoritarian state believe that there will be no legal consequences for committing doping fraud conspiracies.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and a senior member of the Helsinki Commission, issued this statement on the introduction of legislation which would criminalize international doping fraud conspiracies: “One week after the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) failed to suspend the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA) for missing a crucial December 31, 2018, deadline, Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Representatives Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) and Michael Burgess (TX-26) today introduced in the Senate and the House the Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act. The legislation, originally introduced in the 115th Congress, would criminalize international doping fraud conspiracies. “If enacted into law, the Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act will: establish criminal penalties for participating in a scheme in commerce to influence a major international sport competition through prohibited substances or methods; provide restitution to victims of such conspiracies; protect whistleblowers from retaliation; and establish coordination and sharing of information with the United States Anti-Doping Agency. “In 2016, Dr. Rodchenkov exposed the Russian state-sponsored doping scandal that took place during the 2014 Sochi Olympics. By deceiving international anti-doping authorities and swapping athletes’ samples, Russian officials cheated U.S. athletes out of Olympic glory and U.S. corporations out of honest sponsorships. These corrupt officials used bribes and illicit payments, sometimes through U.S. financial institutions, to commit this fraud. Unfortunately, the masterminds behind the Russian sports doping operation escaped punishment for their actions because there was no U.S. legal mechanism to bring them to justice. “In February 2018, the Helsinki Commission held a briefing featuring Dr. Rodchenkov’s attorney, Jim Walden, on combating fraud in sports and the role of whistleblowers in safeguarding the integrity of international competitions. In March, I met with Dr. Rodchenkov to discuss the threat posed by Russia to the United States, corruption in international sports bodies, and how the United States can contribute to the international effort to counter doping fraud. In July, the Helsinki Commission held a hearing that explored the interplay between doping fraud and globalized corruption and U.S. policy responses, including the Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act. “In October 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice indicted seven individuals for involvement in a Russian-operated military intelligence program in which GRU officers are alleged to have conducted sophisticated hacking of U.S. and international anti-doping agencies who investigated and publicly condemned Russia’s state-sponsored doping program. The hacking victims also included 230 athletes from approximately 30 countries. The operation was part of a disinformation campaign in which victims’ personal email communications and individual medical and drug testing information, sometimes modified from its original form, was used to actively promote media coverage to further a narrative favorable to the Russian government. “The legislation I have introduced is bipartisan, and bears the name of a courageous whistleblower, Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, a courageous man who revealed the true extent of the complex state-run doping scheme which permitted Russia to perform as well as it did in the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics, and which resulted in its ban from the 2018 Olympic Games. While he was complicit in Russia’s past bad acts, Dr. Rodchenkov regrets his past role in Russia’s state-run doping program and seeks to atone for it by aiding the effort to clean up international sports and to curb the corruption rampant in Russia. The RADA is an important step to stemming the tide of Russian corruption in sport and restoring confidence in international competition.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
01.30.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 29, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Introduction of Resolutions in Support of Ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment Jackson Lee: “I am especially proud to sponsor these resolutions, not just because of my steadfast support for equality for all, but also because of the late great Barbara Jordan, who was my predecessor and mentor. She endorsed me for the seat I hold today, and whose memory has been a guiding spirit in my representation of the Eighteenth Congressional District. But also because of her work in making sure that the Equal Rights Amendment was not forgotten.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, issued this statement on the introduction of resolutions in support of ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment: “In our nation’s constitution—the oldest written charter in the world—the term “woman” is nowhere to be found. For over 95 years, it has been the cause of powerful, female (and some male) social engineers to amend the constitution to give women equal legal standing as men. While the cause has taken longer than any would want, I am proud to lend my full support to joint resolutions to help finally ratify the Equal Rights Amendment. “In a public opinion survey conducted in the United States, 92% of respondents indicated that there should be gender equality in the Constitution, and 72% believe it is already in place. In the early 1970s, when this effort was making its way through the halls of congress, the resolution in support of an Equal Rights Amendment passed overwhelmingly in both houses of Congress. During that time, 38 states were required for ratification—35 ratified it at that time. “There are real consequences to a federal constitution that lacks an equal rights amendment. Without a ratified Equal Rights Amendment, the U. S. Supreme Court has refused to hear cases regarding gender discrimination. This means that when scrutinizing laws that impact gender rights, the law receives intermediate scrutiny, rather than strict scrutiny which is applied to laws alleging racial discrimination, for example. “This inequity has been recognized by jurists of differing philosophies—Antonin Scalia and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. And the need to address this inequity is no less urgent, as the country reckons itself with the impact of the #MeToo movement. For the last many years, women who have been victimized are empowered by the knowledge that they are not alone, and that there is strength in numbers, and shared experiences. And, rather than the debate ending with this knowledge, we must use this moment to revisit business that is no less urgent. This country can build on the unity that has been produced in this moment. After all, victims of sexual assault do not discriminate based on political party, gender, race, age or socioeconomic status. “This belief is what led 700,000 Latina farm workers to encourage those within the Hollywood business ecosystem to speak out about crimes in which gender is a motivating factor. The impetus for the letter was based on the shared experiences of women across the professional spectrum. With the ERA, actions which are designed to combat the prevalence of sexual assault will be more effective. Upon enactment, it will create a clearer, stricter judicial standard for deciding cases of sex discrimination and provide protection against rolling back advances in women's reproductive rights. It also has the added benefit of providing a stronger foundation for legal battles associated with equal pay. “I am especially proud to sponsor these resolutions, not just because of my steadfast support for equality for all, but also because of the late great Barbara Jordan, who was my predecessor and mentor. She endorsed me for the seat I hold today, and whose memory has been a guiding spirit in my representation of the Eighteenth Congressional District. But also because of her work in making sure that the Equal Rights Amendment was not forgotten. In 1978, alongside her colleague in Congress, Elizabeth Holtzman, Congresswoman Jordan advocated for an extension of the time required to ratify the amendment. While the effort did not ultimately become enacted, the moment was but one small act which will soon lead to full ratification. Until then, we must all do our part to ensure all—women and men—are equal in the eyes of the law and our constitution.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.29.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 25, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following a Temporary Resolution to the Trump Shutdown Jackson Lee—“Today’s deal is long overdue—by five weeks. Today’s deal does not contain a border wall, as the president has insisted for many weeks, because Speaker Nancy Pelosi is correct—a border wall is immoral and ineffective. Democrats remain committed to border security in the form of increased personnel and resources—a border wall is not supported or effective. Over the next three weeks, until February 15, 2019, the date on which today’s agreement expires, Democrats will continue their efforts to keep government open, and prevent it from shuttering once more. I welcome the input of our friends on the other side of the aisle to find a bipartisan, bicameral workable solution to this problem.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget released this statement following an address in the White House Rose Garden wherein the President decided to relent on holding the American people hostage, and end the Trump Shutdown: “Today is the 35th day of the government shutdown. It has now stretched into a second month, and is the longest shutdown in American history. Federal workers impacted by this Trump shutdown have now endured two pay-periods with no pay, and are struggling to make ends meet. The shutdown is impacting individuals, families, and wholecommunities. This morning, officials at LaGuardia Airport in New York began delaying certain flights, because of the impact that the shutdown was having on air traffic controllers. The time has long-since passed to reopen government, repay our federal workers and get our government working of, by and for the people. While I am encouraged by today’sdecision to reopen government, I am concerned that it took five weeks to reach this end, and am concerned about the impact of the president’s political stunt on countless families. “This Trump shutdown has wreaked havoc on the lives and livelihoods of our federal government workers. In the five weeks that this Trump Shutdown has lasted, rent and mortgage payments have gone unpaid; credit cards bills are left with no money to pay them; credit ratings have been ruined. The financial health of countless families has been imperiled by the President’s insistence on shutting down the government so that he can fulfill on a campaign promise—that he would build a wall at our southern border, and that Mexico would pay for it. As the President insisted on holding the American people hostage, real concerns of families all over the country were being met with indifference from the President. Yesterday, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross incredulously and flippantly asked why those affected by the shutdown could not simply find a loan to subsidize their finances. “Today’s deal is long overdue—by five weeks. Today’s deal does not contain a border wall, as the president has insisted for many weeks, because Speaker Nancy Pelosi is correct—a border wall is immoral and ineffective. Democrats remain committed to border security in the form of increased personnel and resources—a border wall is not supported or effective. Over the next three weeks, Democrats will continue their efforts to keep government open. I welcome the input of our friends on the other side of the aisle to find a bipartisan, bicameral workable solution to this problem. Today’s deal only opens government through February 15, 2019. If the President has learned anything from this shutdown, it is that shutting down the government over a broken political campaign promise, and in the process holding the American people hostage, is no way to govern the world’s oldest democracy.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18thCongressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
01.29.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 25, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following the Indictment of Roger Stone Jackson Lee: “There has been much reported about the contents of the indictment returned by the Grand Jury, notably, whether the president directed an aide to coordinate with Roger Stone about this conspiracy. But overlooked is a small notation on the cover page of the indictment, which reveals it is connected to a related case: the indictment of 12 members of the Russian military intelligence, with whom Stone coordinated to commit his crimes. The inference is unmistakable—the indictments returned are related to the nefarious activity of Russian military intelligence to sabotage the 2016 presidential election.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement following the indictment of the President’s long-time political aide and “dirty-trickster” Roger Stone: “This morning, in an early morning raid at his Florida home, the president’s longest serving political advisor was arrested, following a seven-count federal indictment alleging obstruction of justice, making false statements and perjury—i.e, lying to Congress. This is now the sixth associate of the Trump Campaign to either be indicted, convicted, or who has pleaded guilty as part of the Special Counsel’s investigation. Roger Stone, the President’s self-described “dirty trickster,” will soon face the bar of justice for his role in subverting our democracy. Of course, by now, Stone’s participation is notorious: working with Wikileaks, the Russian-backed non-state actor, Stone coordinated the surreptitious and selective dissemination of emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton, in order to influence the 2016 election. “This is yet another dot connected in the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian interference into the 2016 election and whether that crime was aided and abetted by associates of the Trump Campaign. There has been much reported about the contents of the indictment returned by the Grand Jury, notably, whether the president directed an aide to coordinate with Roger Stone about this conspiracy. But overlooked is a small notation on the cover page of the indictment, which reveals it is connected to a related case: the indictment of 12 members of the Russian military intelligence, with whom Stone coordinated to commit his crimes. The inference is unmistakable—the indictments returned are related to the nefarious activity of Russian military intelligence to sabotage the 2016 presidential election. “Today’s developments give added impetus for Congress to act on H.R. 197, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, legislation which I have cosponsored. This bill would permit any special counsel to challenge his or her termination in federal court, during the pendency of which the investigation would be stayed. It incorporates substantial parts of my legislation from the 115th Congress, which was supported by an overwhelming majority of the Democratic Caucus. I am heartened to know that with this new Democratic majority, this bill will be carefully considered, fully debated, and passed by the House with a substantial majority.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget.
01.24.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 23, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement following Reports that the President’s former personal Lawyer has indefinitely postponed testimony to the Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Jackson Lee—“The president’s social media abuse of Michael Cohen is a blatant attempt to intimidate Cohen from sharing his account of being the President’s fixer for over a year. Federal law enforcement should consider whether the president’s haranguing of this witness amounts to a violation of the law.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget released this statement following reports that the President’s personal lawyer has indefinitely postponed his scheduled testimony before the Oversight & Government Reform: “Today’s news that Michael Cohen has indefinitely postponed his testimony to the House Committee on Oversight is troubling. Yet, even more troubling than this news is the reporting that Cohen is postponing his testimony out of concerns for safety for his family, notably his wife and her father. Undoubtedly, Cohen is responding to the unprecedented attacks made by the President on Michael Cohen, first following the latter’s decision to cooperate with the Special Counsel, and then on news that Cohen was seeking to publicly testify to Congress. The president’s social media abuse of Michael Cohen is a blatant attempt to intimidate Cohen from sharing his account of being the President’s fixer for over a year. Federal law enforcement should consider whether the president’s haranguing of this witness amounts to a violation of the law. “In the meanwhile, it is time for the Congress of the United States to exercise its constitutional duty to conduct oversight over a presidency sorely in need of it. I commend the Chairs of the Judiciary and Intelligence for their decision to investigate this matter. Nonetheless I urge both houses of Congress to act on H.R. 197, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, legislation which I have cosponsored. This bill would permit any special counsel to challenge his or her termination in federal court, during the pendency of which the investigation would be stayed. It incorporates substantial parts of my legislation from the 115th Congress, which was supported by an overwhelming majority of the Democratic Caucus. I am heartened to know that with this new Democratic majority, this bill will be carefully considered, fully debated, and passed by the House with a substantial majority.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.24.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 23, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Shooting in Sebring, Florida WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement after today’s shooting in Sebring, Florida: Today’s shooting in Sebring, Florida, is a tragedy and yet another reminder of the epidemic of gun violence plaguing our country. Five people lost their lives. Today’s shooting is the fifth such mass shooting in Florida of a calendar year only three weeks old. Of course, today’s events are eerily reminiscent of last year’s tragedy in Parkland, Florida, where fifteen people died. The strength shown by those survivors has inspired our nation, and I commend these individuals for their bravery, and for their advocacy for meaningful gun safety legislation. Every day, 100 Americans are killed by gun violence, a point made agonizingly clear when, this month, I met the father of Jaoquin Oliver, who, when he was 17 years-old, was shot and killed last March at his high school in Parkland. We must stem the tide of gun violence. We must reckon ourselves with the reality that Americans are 25 times more likely to be the victim of gun violence than in other developed countries. This is not because Americans are inherently more violent—it is because of our access to guns. Enough is enough. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.23.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 22, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement following the Supreme Court’s Reinstatement of the Trump Transgender Military Ban Jackson Lee—“While challenges to the courts move through the nation’s appeals process, I hope that the Supreme Court will realize that Americans who defend our right to live freely should be able to serve freely. In the meanwhile, I take this moment to thank all who wear our uniform, and who are willing to serve and die for our nation. God bless them all.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and Budget, the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and the Chief Deputy Whip, issued this statement following the Supreme Court’s reinstatement of the Trump transgender military ban: “Today’s decision by the Supreme Court to let proceed the Trump Administration’s ban on transgendered individuals is wrong. The ruling—along the court’s typical 5-4, conservative-liberal axis-reinstates the ban while cases challenging the ban move forward. No person should be denied their right to serve and die for our country, and certainly they should not be prevented from doing so due to their birthright to live as who they are. Previous statements from representatives of our armed forces have assuaged concerns that the matriculation of transgendered troops would not impact readiness of our armed forces. While challenges to the courts move through the nation’s appeals process, I hope that the Supreme Court will realize that Americans who defend our right to live freely should be able to serve freely. In the meanwhile, I take this moment to thank all who wear our uniform, and who are willing to serve and die for our nation. God bless them all.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.23.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 22, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Death of Harris Wofford Jackson Lee—“I mourn his loss, but also celebrate his life. I extend my condolences to his husband, Matthew, and to all who survive him and celebrate the life of this statesman.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and Budget, the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and the Chief Deputy Whip, issued this statement following the death of former United States Senator Harris Wofford: “Yesterday, our nation lost a civil rights champion, and an icon in his own right. Harris Wofford—an attorney, former advisor to President John F. Kennedy, and United States Senator representing Pennsylvania—died. He was 92. “A son of Manhattan, Senator Wofford spent his life as a public servant and was an early supporter of the Civil Rights Movement. Mr. Harris marched with Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at Selma, Alabama and encouraged John F. Kennedy to call Mrs. King after Dr. King was jailed in 1960. Some have said that the call led to Kennedy’s designation as the “Candidate with a Heart.” Then-Senator Kennedy won the endorsement of Dr. King’s father—the Rev. Martin Luther King, Sr. Senator Kennedy would go on to win 70% of the black vote in his narrow victory over Vice President Richard Nixon in the 1960 presidential election. His work in politics continued, later as Chairman of the Pennsylvania Democratic Party in 1986, and as Pennsylvania’s Secretary of Labor and Industry. “He also leaves behind a remarkable legacy of public service outside of politics, and which was reflected in the Senator’s commitment to community. He served as a legal assistant for Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh on the United States Commission on Civil Rights, a professor, a university president, as chief executive of AmeriCorps, and as a board member for numerous charities and service organizations. I mourn his loss, but also celebrate his life. I extend my condolences to his husband, Matthew, and to all who survive him and celebrate the life of this statesman.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.22.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand January 21, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on 2019 Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Jackson Lee: “Dr. King preached a gospel of peace and brotherhood that continues to resonate across the country, in the hearts of millions seeking to create a more perfect union for generations to follow. Let us take his example, and remember his words and in his name commit ourselves to a renewed sense of purpose, community and goodwill towards all men.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the federal holiday honoring Martin Luther King, Jr.: “Today is the federal holiday where our nation honors a true giant: the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Had he lived, this year Dr. King would have turned 90 years old. He would have seen the election of our first African American president, and the entry by African Americans into unprecedented sectors of leadership, academy and society. During the last twelve months, we have commemorated a number of milestones, including the day Dr. King was felled by an assassin’s bullet in Memphis, Tennessee. “Today is also a national day of service, and a time to re-commit ourselves to serving each other and our communities. On this day, Americans across the country will honor Dr. King by helping their neighbors and communities. On this day, I am calling on all Americans to take action to help others and make an ongoing commitment to serve throughout the year. The best way to honor Dr. King is through service and volunteering in our communities. Dr. King devoted his life to advancing equality, social justice, and economic opportunity for all. He challenged us to build a more perfect union and taught us that everyone has a role to play. “Dr. King preached a gospel of peace and brotherhood that continues to resonate across the country, in the hearts of millions seeking to create a more perfect union for generations to follow. Let us take his example, and remember his words and in his name commit ourselves to a renewed sense of purpose, community and goodwill towards all men.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
01.22.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand January 19, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following the President’s Address on Day 29 of the Trump Shutdown Jackson Lee: “Caught in the crosshairs of this mess are hardworking government employees who want nothing more than to do an honest day’s work, and be fairly remunerated for their efforts. More than anyone else, this government shutdown imperils their financial freedom and security, which makes our country less strong. Mortgage and rent payments are going unpaid; credit ratings are being damaged; families are being made more insecure. In my homestate of Texas—the second most populous state in the Republic—the hardship is acutely felt, and especially so among vulnerable populations. Because of this Trump Shutdown, millions of beneficiaries of Supplemental Nutrition assistance will be affected—a program which keeps a half-million children out of poverty. As the national calendar turns to tax season in Texas 10 million tax filers will be impacted by this Trump Shutdown, too. The time has come to end this Trump Shutdown.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following the President’s address from the Diplomatic Room of the White House earlier today: “This afternoon’s address by the President was nothing new, and merely a regurgitation of other policies proposed and rejected by the Democratic majority. First of all, Democrats have repeatedly stated that the immediate reopening of the federal government is a condition precedent to any further negotiation of border security. To do otherwise would be acquiescence and validation of what amounts to holding hostage the American people over a campaign promise. Moreover, the “concessions” offered by the President are unacceptable by House Democrats, irrespective of whether they are offered individually—as they have been before—or collectively, as they were presented today. And a final point, before addressing the merits of the President’s remarks: the concessions the he offered are merely reversions to the status quo, prior to the beginning of his administration, and prior to his reckless, and legally dubiousdecisions to rescind DACA protections, for example,for hundreds of thousands—and likely many, many more—of people who have known no other home besides our great country. “Today, lurking behind the President’s typical fear-mongering, and other specious claims made from the Diplomatic Room of the White House, and gone unmentioned by this President is the fact that on the first day of the 116th Congress, House Democrats passed a bill to reopen government identical to one that passed unanimously in the United States Senate in the last days of the 115th Congress. Yet now, in questionable deference to the President, and in a remarkable abdication of legislative prerogative, the Senate Majority Leader will not bring that bill to the floor of the U.S. Senate for a vote. Fortunately, this week, in addition to the many bills that the House of Representatives has already passed to reopen government, the House will pass a package of six bills agreed to by House and Senate negotiators and other legislation to re-open government so that we can fully negotiate on a border security proposal. If the President is serious about solving this problem and ending this shutdown, he should seriously consider reopening government in a manner consistent with the terms outlined in the bills to be passed this week. “Today marks Day 29 of the Trump Shutdown—the longest shutdown of our federal government in the history of our republic. It is having a significant impact on the financial health and security of countless families, not just the 800,000 federal employees and contractors directly impacted. Caught in the crosshairs of this mess are hardworking government employees who want nothing more than to do an honest day’s work, and be fairly remunerated for their efforts. More than anyone else, this government shutdown imperils their financial freedom and security, which makes our country less strong. Mortgage and rent payments are going unpaid; credit ratings are being damaged; families are being made more insecure. In my homestate of Texas—the second most populous state in the Republic—the hardship is acutely felt, and especially so among vulnerable populations. Because of this Trump Shutdown, millions of beneficiaries of Supplemental Nutrition assistance will be affected, a program which keeps a half-million children out of poverty. As the national calendar turns to tax season, over 10 million tax filers in Texas will undoubtedly be impacted by this Trump Shutdown. The time has come to end this Trump Shutdown. I implore the President to stop holding the American people hostage, to reopen government and work on a bipartisan, bicameral basis to solve this problem.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
01.22.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 17, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Applauds Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s Decision to Postpone the State of the Union Address Jackson Lee: “Hosting the President of the United States for a State of the Union Address under these circumstances would give this shutdown the appearance of normalcy, when it is anything but. Those furloughed by the shutdown or otherwise affected by it know all too well the state of the union. For them, the state of the union is terrible—mortgages and rent payments are not being made; credit ratings are being adversely affected and whole communities are struggling to emerge from this Trump Shutdown.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement following the Speaker’s decision to postpone the State of the Union pending the government shutdown: “Yesterday, the Speaker of the House conveyed to the President of the United States that, due to his shutdown of the federal government, he should find an alternate date on which to deliver the address, or transmit the address in writing. As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, and a former Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security, I wholeheartedly agree with the Speaker’s decision. “Given the fact that the State of the Union is attended by the leading members of all three branches of the federal government, including members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Supreme Court, members of both chambers of Congress, the President’s cabinet and our diplomatic corps, the State of the Union is the designated as a National Special Security Event. As such, NSSEs require added security, and as Homeland Security Secretary Kristjen Nielsen has stated, the NSSEs require the full resources of the federal government. The task of securing the Capitol grounds falls to two units: the United States Capitol Police and the United States Secret Service. The Secret Service is a component agency of the Department of Homeland Security, which is not funded during this government shutdown. The Secret Service performs an invaluable service in maintaining and providing security to elected officials and dignitaries attending the address. Because the consequences of the President’s shutdown of the federal government are inconsistent with the ability to secure the Capitol, the Speaker was correct to state that the State of the Union cannot proceed during a government shutdown and thus, it is appropriate to postpone the address. “Hosting the President of the United States for a State of the Union Address under these circumstances would give this shutdown the appearance of normalcy, when it is anything but. Those furloughed by the shutdown or otherwise affected by it know all too well the state of the union. For them, the state of the union is terrible—mortgages and rent payments are not being made; credit ratings are being adversely affected and whole communities are struggling to emerge from this Trump Shutdown. “Lastly, the President’s decision earlier today to notify the Speaker of the House—a constitutionally prescribed officer who is third in line to the presidency—that he would be postponing Speaker Pelosi’s trip is petty, and regrettable. First of all, the purpose of the Speaker’s visit was to visit troops and conduct oversight in Afghanistan, a place the President is yet to visit. Second, the decision is particularly suspect given that the Speaker was scheduled to visit our allies in NATO—a group that the President has routinely denigrated. “And, the President cited the shutdown as the basis of his inability to permit the use of a military plane to transport the Speaker’s delegation. This is incredulous. First of all, the unit of our government that administers the military—the Department of Defense—is fully funded, and not impacted by the Trump Shutdown. Second, it is likely that the President’s announcement is a function of spite. Put another way, he merely adopted this posture as retaliation for the Speaker’s plenary use of her prerogative, to extend invitations for attendees to address the House of Representatives. I urge the President to reconsider this inappropriate act, and to reinstate the Speaker’s delegation to Afghanistan, NATO and points elsewhere.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.22.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 17, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Sponsors Legislation to Bring Immediate Financial Relief for Federal Employees Jackson Lee: “While the President continues his Trump Shutdown, real families are suffering and wondering where they will get the money to maintain their lives. This bill is an important effort to bring financial security and relief to countless individuals affected by the whims of this president. If enacted into law, this bill will require the U.S. Treasury to offer the 800,000 employees impacted by the government shutdown and future shutdowns the opportunity to receive zero (0.0%) APR loans of up to $6,000. The bill would provide immediate relief for the families of federal workers as they continue to work without compensation, facing impossible financial decisions on their rent, bills, and tuition.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement on the introduction of the Immediate Financial Relief for Federal Employees Act: “This Trump Shutdown is now in its 27th day. The financial health of countless families has been imperiled by the President’s insistence on shutting down the government so that he can fulfill on a campaign promise—that he would build a wall at our southern border, and that Mexico would pay for it. As the President insists on holding the American people hostage, real concerns of families all over the country are being met with indifference from the President. In the meanwhile, mortgage and rent payments are going unpaid; credit ratings are being damaged; families are being made more insecure. This situation requires answers, and resolution for hundreds of thousands of hardworking Americans caught in the middle. That is why I am proud to sponsor the Immediate Financial Relief for Federal Employees Act. “While the President continues his Trump Shutdown, real families are suffering and wondering where they will get the money to maintain their lives. This bill is an important effort to bring financial security and relief to countless individuals affected by the whims of this president. If enacted into law, this bill will require the U.S. Treasury to offer the 800,000 employees impacted by the government shutdown and future shutdowns the opportunity to receive zero (0.0%) APR loans of up to $6,000. The bill would provide immediate relief for the families of federal workers as they continue to work without compensation, facing impossible financial decisions on their rent, bills, and tuition. “This is not a theoretical problem. In Texas, 35,000 employees will go without pay due to this shutdown. These individuals work in government agencies critical to the safety and economic health of Houston and Texas, like the Transportation Safety Administration, NASA, and the FDIC. Passage and enactment of this bill would go a long way to helping these hardworking Americans. “Members of Congress are seeking creative and unique ways to help the hundreds of thousands of Americans impacted by the Trump Shutdown and the countless others who, through cascading consequences, are also feeling the brunt of the shutdown. To the extent this legislative vehicle can be implemented within the bounds of existing precedent and the strictures of current law, it is compelling legislation. I applaud Congressman Cox for his ingenuity and creativity in proposing this legislation and I am proud to cosponsor it.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.22.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 17, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Supports the Pay our Coast Guard Parity Act of 2019 Jackson Lee: “Like members of the other Armed Forces, members of the Coast Guard serve out of a sense of duty. Yet many, especially junior enlisted members, live paycheck to paycheck. An interruption to the pay of these military service members directly impacts their ability to put food on the table, pay rent, and provide for their families. If the lapse in appropriations extends into February, it could also impact retired Coast Guard members and their families. This Trump Shutdown has gone on long enough. It is long past time to end the shutdown, reopen government and negotiate in the tradition of our Madisonian democracy. In the meanwhile, it is imperative for the Congress to act where possible to enhance the defense of our nation’s coasts and homeland.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement after she joined as a cosponsor to H.R. 367, the Pay Our Coast Guard Parity Act: “Today marks Day 27 of the Trump Shutdown—the longest shutdown of our federal government in the history of our republic. It is having a significant impact on the financial health and security of countless families, not just the 800,000 federal employees and contractors directly impacted. Caught in the crosshairs of this mess are hardworking government employees who want nothing more than to do an honest day’s work, and be fairly remunerated for their efforts. More than anyone else, this government shutdown imperils their financial freedom and security, which makes our country less strong. Mortgage and rent payments are going unpaid; credit ratings are being damaged; families are being made more insecure. This situation requires answers, and resolution for hundreds of thousands of hardworking Americans caught in the middle. “Notably, many critical components of our homeland defense, preparedness and readiness are uniquely impacted, including members of the United States Coast Guard. Like members of the other Armed Forces, members of the Coast Guard serve out of a sense of duty. Yet many, especially junior enlisted members, live paycheck to paycheck. An interruption to the pay of these military service members directly impacts their ability to put food on the table, pay rent, and provide for their families. If the lapse in appropriations extends into February, it could also impact retired Coast Guard members and their families. The Administration used a one-time fix to pay Coast Guard military members on January 1, 2019. However, such a procedure is not available going forward. The Coast Guard has tried to share information with its members regarding ways to potentially mitigate the impacts of the lapse. However, many of the hardships cannot be mitigated – only new appropriations will allow Coast Guard members and employees to begin to address the challenges arisen from the lapse in appropriations. This is why I am proud to cosponsor the Pay Our Coast Guard Parity Act of 2019 (H.R. 367). “If enacted, this bill provides funding during any period in fiscal year 2019 during which interim or full-year appropriations for the Coast Guard are not in effect to provide for: pay and allowances for active duty and reserve members of the Coast Guard; pay and allowances for civilian employees of the Coast Guard; pay and allowances for contractors of the Coast Guard; payment of death gratuities with respect to members of the Coast Guard; payment or reimbursement of authorized funeral travel and travel related to the dignified transfer of remains and unit memorial services with respect to members of the Coast Guard; temporary continuation of a basic allowance of housing for dependents of members of the Coast Guard dying on active duty; and Coast Guard retired pay and benefits. “Congresswoman Jackson Lee is aware of the Trump Shutdown and her sponsorship of this act is not the exclusive means of relief she seeks for those impacted by this shutdown. She has visited members of the Transportation Safety Administration, many of whom serve in her congressional district at George Bush International Airport. She has learned of the countless Americans who rely on nutrition assistance, who will now not receive their benefits due to this shutdown. She knows of the pain that follows if the Department of Housing and Urban Development is no longer able to assist individuals secure housing assistance or apply for home mortgages through the Department. Every day, Congresswoman Jackson Lee takes to the floor of the House—the people’s house—to fight for the end of the Shutdown, so that Americans can return to a sense of normalcy and so that the brave men and women who keep our nation safe and are sometimes stationed in faraway waters, like members of our Coast Guard, can serve their country with the peace of mind that they will be paid for their services. “Unlike other components of our armed forces, the Coast Guard is a unit of the Department of Homeland Security—one of the agencies impacted by the shutdown. Because their work consists of defending the homeland, they are deemed essential and must continue working through this shutdown. This is fundamentally unfair. This Trump Shutdown has gone on long enough. It is long past time to end the shutdown, reopen government and negotiate in the tradition of our Madisonian democracy. In the meanwhile, it is imperative for the Congress to act where possible to enhance the defense of our nation’s coasts and homeland.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.22.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 17, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Participates in the Chevron Houston Marathon WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement ahead of her participation of the Chevron Houston Marathon: “I am pleased to participate in the Chevron Houston Marathon, a mainstay of the Bayou City since 1972. This year I feel compelled to participate on behalf of those afflicted by—and in order to stem the tide of—gun violence, breast cancer, and other forms of cancer, and, on the eve of the federal holiday bearing his name, for the King of peace. “This race is an annual fixture of our community, and I am especially proud that it occurs in my congressional district. The group organizing the race, the Houston Marathon Committee, has made a significant contribution towards the betterment of the lives of Houstonians. The HMC has raised over $27 million since its inception and the Houston Marathon Foundation serves the greater Houston area through support of youth and community organizations that promote access to and participation in running. “Supporting worthy causes through marathons, half-marathons, 10ks, 5ks, etc., is a proud American tradition. This year, I am especially proud to shed light on victims of gun violence for their bravery, and for their advocacy for meaningful gun safety legislation. Every day, 100 Americans are killed by gun violence, a point made agonizingly clear when, this week, I met the father of Jaoquin Oliver, who, when he was 17 years-old, was shot and killed last March at his high school in Parkland, Florida. Moreover, Americans are 25 times more likely to be the victim of gun violence than in other developed countries. When I participate on Sunday, it will be on behalf of them to be certain. “I will also be participating on behalf of survivors of breast cancer. Over the course of their lives, 1 in 8 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer and some years ago, it happened to me. Though, sadly, many do not enjoy the recovery I was blessed to have. Each year, over 40,000 women succumb to their diagnoses. While the prognosis for this disease has bettered over the years with more funding and greater awareness, it is still a daunting diagnosis. That is why I am proud to run, in support of Sisters Network, cancer research, and on behalf of survivors of this deadly disease. “And, in a year where we celebrate what would have been the 90th birthday of the late Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and on the eve of the federal holiday commemorating his birth, I am proud to run for the King of Peace, for whom every moment was an opportunity to spread the good word and who galvanized our nation to continue to seek to overcome our divisions.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.16.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Joins Colleagues to Stop the President From Using Disaster Relief Funds Appropriated for Hurricane Harvey Relief to be used to build a Border Wall Jackson Lee: “While the letter restates the need for tactical infrastructure, the term “tactical infrastructure” does not mean support for a border wall. This is for any number of reasons, not the least of which is that many believe that a border wall is not effective, and the wall is not supported by the American people. While I believe the government shutdown is a major policy misjudgment, and that the president should not shut down the government over his inability to secure funding from the Congress for a border wall he promised would be paid for by Mexico, the redirection of already-appropriated funds directed for disaster relief following Hurricane Harvey is not the means by which to effectuate that end.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement after she joined her colleagues from the Texas delegation in a bipartisan letter to the President asking him not to redirect funds appropriated for Hurricane Harvey relief towards the construction of a border wall: “Today, I joined members of the Texas congressional delegation and the Governor of Texas in sending a letter to the President related to the shutdown. Specifically, the letter made a clear request: not to divert the critical aid appropriated by the Congress to help Texans recover following Hurricane Harvey. “When Hurricane Harvey made landfall, 21 trillion gallons of rain fell on the affected areas. Afterwards, Houstonians and all Texas began the work to rebuild and reclaim their lives. This effort was aided in substantial part by the those who represent Texas in the United States Congress who sprung to action to ensure businesses reopen, families return home, and communities remain whole. Together, working in a bicameral, bipartisan manner, led in large part by my advocacy, the Texas delegation secured over $100 billion to help the fourth largest city and the second most-populous state recover. “Against this backdrop, the signatories on today’s letter reemphasized our shared goals and our shared commitment to our constituents in Texas to ensure that the funds allocated for Harvey relief are committed to that cause, and not in service to a campaign promise to build a border wall on our southern border. “To be clear, while I am a signatory to this letter, and while the letter restates the need for tactical infrastructure, the term “tactical infrastructure” does not mean support for a border wall. This is for any number of reasons, not the least of which is that many believe that a border wall is not effective, and the wall is not supported by the American people. While I believe the government shutdown is a major policy misjudgment, and that the president should not shut down the government over his inability to secure funding from the Congress for a border wall he promised would be paid for by Mexico, the redirection of already-appropriated funds directed for disaster relief following hurricane Harvey is not the means by which to effectuate that end. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.16.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Applauds the Federal Court Ruling in New York v. Department of Commerce Barring the Use of Citizenship on the 2020 Decennial Census Jackson Lee: “The decision to ask about citizenship always invited concern, and has the potential to disproportionately impact vulnerable and underserved communities, as well as communities of color. For example, given the current political climate, it had the potential to intimidate potential respondents, irrespective of their citizenship status. It is no coincidence that the initial decision to ask of citizenship was opposed by groups such as the NAACP and other civil rights organizations. Also, the consequences of this decision were not relegated to “blue states” or “red states.” Statistics show that 60 percent of the country’s undocumented immigrants live in urban areas, a majority of which was won by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election. An undercount of metropolitan urban areas could adversely affect the funds received by cities such as Houston, Austin and Dallas.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement following the court’s decision in New York v. Department of Commerce: “Earlier today, a federal judge in New York found that the United States Department of Commerce violated several federal statutes when it placed a question about citizenship on the 2020 national decennial census. The decision issued was both sweeping and damming. Specifically, the court made four findings: “First, the Court conclude[d] that Secretary Ross ignored and violated a clear statutory duty to rely on administrative records (rather than direct inquiries) to the “maximum extent possible,” 13 U.S.C. § 6c, rendering his decision “not in accordance with law,” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). Second, even if that statute did not exist, Secretary Ross’s decision to add a citizenship question rather than collect citizenship data through more effective and less costly means was “not supported by the reasons [he] adduce[d],” Service, 522 U.S. at 374, making it “arbitrary and capricious” in violation of Section 706(A). Third, although a closer question, the Court [found] that Secretary Ross failed to satisfy the statutory requirement that he report any plan to address the subject of citizenship to Congress at least three years before the decennial census, in violation of Title 13, United States Code, Section 141(f)(1). And fourth, the Court conclude[d] that Secretary Ross’s decision was pretextual — that the rationale he provided for his decision was not his real rationale.’ “Those of us who believe that a full and comprehensive count of the people in our land—citizens and noncitizens alike—strengthens our nation, are pleased by the Court’s holding and reasoning. Our decennial census is a critical exercise, as it dictates the representative power of each state and helps inform the internal redistribution of our national assets. The decision to ask about citizenship always invited concern, and had the potential to disproportionately impact vulnerable and underserved communities, as well as communities of color. For example, given the current political climate, it had the potential to intimidate potential respondents, irrespective of their citizenship status. It is no coincidence that the initial decision to ask of citizenship was opposed by groups such as the NAACP and other civil rights organizations. “It also appeared that the decision to ask about citizenship was not driven by concerns to get an accurate count, but instead by politics. The consequences of this decision were not relegated to “blue states” or “red states.” Statistics show that 60 percent of the country’s undocumented immigrants live in urban areas, a majority of which was won by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election. An undercount of metropolitan urban areas could adversely affect the funds received by cities such as Houston, Austin and Dallas. “Lastly, the Commerce Department’s decision to ask about citizenship was reminiscent of an uglier time in our country’s history where the questions about fair and equal representation were informed by immutable characteristics, such as race. I am pleased by the ruling issued by Judge Jesse Furman in New York v. Department of Commerce, and I look forward to seeing the decision affirmed in appellate courts.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.16.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 11, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls For Compassion and Help For Federal Employees and Veterans Affected by the Trump Shutdown Jackson Lee: “Having been defeated legislatively by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, now the President would like to pay for his abomination by diverting funds that the Congress has appropriated for disaster relief, following Hurricanes Harvey to help citizens in my homestate of Texas; victims of Maria in Puerto Rico and Florida; and victims of deadly wildfires in California. This is callous. First of all, it ignores the fact that the President repeatedly and derisively indicated that Mexico would pay for it. Next, when the Congress appropriated funds to help Americans devastated by natural disasters, it certainly did not intend or contemplate that they would be diverted to pay for an immoral campaign promise.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement following plans to use disaster relief funds to pay for his southern border wall: “Today’s news that the President plans to divert funds appropriated for disaster relief to pay for his border wall is outrageous and immoral, and an affront to the millions of Americans affected by real disasters that have struck the homeland. Of course, a condition precedent to any redirection of funds is the declaration by the President of a national emergency. Declaring a national emergency for purely political reasons is antidemocratic, petulant, dangerous and unbecoming of the President of the United States. The truth is that the President is only considering this option after realizing that Speaker Nancy Pelosi was absolutely correct when she informed him that he did not have the support in Congress to require the taxpayers to pay for his broken promise, that “Mexico would pay for the wall, 100 percent.” In the face of this humiliating defeat, the President is attempting to use disaster funds to pay for the vanity project that is his border wall. The Congress will not tolerate this. “First of all, as I have indicated before, the demand for a border wall, and the phony claim of a caravan invasion—as the president repeatedly claimed during the 2018 election season—does not constitute an emergency. The president and his staff have been routinely and repeatedly corrected and rebuked for their attempts to spread false and misleading information about the state of our southern border. They have wrongly claimed that the lack of a border wall at the southern border is a major source of drugs coming into the United States, when in fact it is ports of entry. They disregarded the fact that border apprehensions are at a 45 year-low, and have been dropping since 2000. “Having been defeated legislatively by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, now the President according to a story in the New York Times would like to pay for his abomination of a border wall by diverting funds that the Congress has appropriated for disaster relief, following Hurricanes Harvey to help citizens in my homestate of Texas; victims of Maria in Puerto Rico and Florida; and victims of deadly wildfires in California. This is callous. First of all, it ignores the fact that the President repeatedly and derisively indicated that Mexico would pay for it. Next, when the Congress appropriated funds to help Americans devastated by natural disasters, it certainly did not intend or contemplate that they would be diverted to pay for an immoral campaign promise. They allocated the funds to help their neighbors recover from unimaginable calamities that afflict whole neighborhoods, counties and regions. When Members of Congress come together to help their fellow Americans, they do so out of a fidelity to our country’s creed—e pluribus unum. They did not do it to build the wall. By large margins, Americans reject shutting down the government; they reject building a border wall at the southern border; and they reject shutting down the government because the Congress will not appropriate funds for a border wall. Caught in the crosshairs of this mess are hardworking government employees who want nothing more than to do an honest day’s work, and be fairly remunerated for their efforts. More than anyone else, this government shutdown imperils their financial freedom and security, which makes our country less strong. Mortgage and rent payments are going unpaid; credit ratings are being damaged; families are being made more insecure. This situation requires answers, and resolution for hundreds of thousands of hardworking Americans caught in the middle. This is why, as Speaker Pelosi articulated this morning on the floor of the House of Representatives, the need to help these families escape the long term impact of this shortsighted shutdown is urgent: “The impact of a missed paycheck is catastrophic in the lives of these Americans when they can't pay their mortgage, their rent, their utilities bill, their car payments, children's tuition on time, the list goes on. It affects their credit rating and it affects the credit rating of the United States of America…. Sending these workers their paycheck late is wrong. We keep saying that. It’s wrong. But since there is a guarantee that they will be getting paid, I would hope that the commercial banks, the banks in our country would follow the lead of some of the credit unions by giving interest-free loans right now to these families so that they can pay their bills in time and they can be respected for the work they do or anticipated to do.” “The Speaker made these remarks during consideration of S. 24, the Government Employee Fair Treatment Act of 2018, which is designed to bring quick relief in the form of immediately being paid back pay, once the shutdown ends. This is one of the many pieces of legislation that the new Democratic majority in the 116th Congress has passed to either reopen government, or bring relief to those impacted by it. This includes: HR 21, Consolidated Appropriations Act; HJ Res 1 (Department of Homeland Security continuing appropriations resolution providing continuing Homeland Security appropriations through 2/8/2019); HR 264 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2019; HR 265 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019; HR 6072 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019; and, HR 266 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019. “Today is the 21st day of the government shutdown, and also the first regularly-scheduled payday since it began where employees will not receive pay due to the shutdown. Due to Republican intransigence on this matter, and their failure to bring this shutdown to an end, it could be the first of many. To the extent there are differences about how to conduct effective border security, I urge the President to reopen government and let the Congress work out these differences. Separately, I urge Senate MajorityLeader Mitch McConnell to bring the many bills the new Democratic House majority has passed—beginning on the first day of the 116th Congress—to reopen government, pass these bills, and challenge the President to veto the legislation and continue to deprive hard working Americans the financial security and peace of mind they have earned. In the meanwhile, Democrats in Congress will continue opposing the Trump shutdown and do everything possible to end it.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18thCongressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.16.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement following Reports that the President wishes to Withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Jackson Lee—“And, the desire to withdraw from NATO reveals Trump’s willingness to turn our back on our treaty obligations and ignores a critical reality sure to strike a chord with any American who lived through the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The North Atlantic Treaty provides for mutual defense—if one country that is a party to the treaty is attacked, then it is construed as an attack on all countries party to the treaty. This is known as Article 5. It has only been invoked once—in defense of the United States in the moments and days after the worst domestic terror attack on American soil.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and a Senior Member of the Gun Violence Prevention Taskforce, released this statement following reports that the President seeks to withdraw from NATO: “Yesterday evening, the New York Times reported that on several occasions in 2018, the President stated his desire to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (“NATO”). Such a desire, in one fell-swoop, makes clear that the current occupant of the White House is unfit to lead the Western Alliance. “If true, the report suggests a fundamental misunderstanding by the President of the role of the United States over the course of the last 75 years. It misapprehends the role that NATO played as a bulwark against the Warsaw Pact, the Soviet-led group that stood in solidarity to bring the world under the influence of the hammer and sickle. “Vocalizing a desire to withdraw from NATO reveals a desire to destroy the historic organization that has kept the peace and preserved freedom for more than 75 years and confirms the suspicions of many that the president is an agent of Russia, whose primary geopolitical aim is the weakening of NATO. Without NATO, the Cold War would not have ended without firing a shot, and without NATO, countries in the Soviet bloc that comprised the Warsaw Pact would still be the captive nations. “And, the desire to withdraw from NATO reveals Trump’s willingness to turn our back on our treaty obligations and ignores a critical reality sure to strike a chord with any American who lived through the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The North Atlantic Treaty provides for mutual defense—if one country that is a party to the treaty is attacked, then it is construed as an attack on all countries party to the treaty. This is known as Article 5. It has only been invoked once—in defense of the United States in the moments and days after the worst domestic terror attack on American soil. “While I hope the reporting in the New York Times is incorrect, I fear that is not. It is my hope that the President educates himself on the historic and indispensable role of NATO in maintaining the global order, and recommits to the role to which he was elected—leader of the free world.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.16.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 15, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Denouncing and Rejecting White Nationalism and White Supremacy Jackson Lee—“ For too long, this Representative from Iowa has trafficked in hateful rhetoric. Unfortunately, his remarks were not made in a vacuum. He made these remarks as a sitting member of Congress at the same time the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been noticing an alarming pattern of hate across the nation. For example, according to the FBI, hate crimes increased nationwide during 2015, 2016 and 2017, including the shooting deaths of nine parishioners at Mother Emmanuel Church in Charleston, South Carolina, and just last year, eleven parishioners at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, the Chief Deputy Whip and a former staff member of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, released this statement ahead of the House vote on H.Res. 41, a Resolution Rejecting White Nationalism and White Supremacy: “Today marks the 90th birthday of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and this weekend the nation celebrates the federal holiday in his honor. Fifty-six years ago, not far from the Chamber of the House of Representatives, Dr. King implored us to judge people “not by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.’ ”This country’s original sin is slavery and its vestiges. Unfortunately, centuries after our founding, we know too well that racism is alive and well, and seeps into many corners of our society. This is why the statements made last week by the Congressman from Iowa, to the New York Times defending “white nationalism,” “white supremacy,” and “western civilization,” and wondering aloud to the newspaper of record as to why and when such statements became offensive are indefensible. The doctrine of white supremacy was rejected emphatically with the defeat of the confederacy in the Civil War and the ratification of the 13th, 14th and 15th Amendments. “White nationalism is an extremist ideology that believes the government should preserve America for the white race. As the text of H.Res. 41—introduced by James Clyburn, the Majority Whip of the House of Representatives—makes clear, white supremacy views non-whites as ‘subhuman’ and are referred to in ‘derogatory terms.’ The domestic white nationalist movement seeks to promote, honor, and defend the white race. But none of this is new to the Congressman at issue—to be certain, this Member of Congress has a long and sordid history of these remarks. As recently as the 2018 election cycle, he was found to have made similarly offensive remarks. This remark earned little more than a rebuke from the Republican leader of the House congressional campaign committee. “For too long, this Representative from Iowa has trafficked in hateful rhetoric. Unfortunately, his remarks were not made in a vacuum. This Congressman made these remarks as a sitting member of Congress at the same time the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been noticing an alarming pattern of hate across the nation. For example, according to the FBI, hate crimes increased nationwide during 2015, 2016 and 2017, including the shooting deaths of nine parishioners at Mother Emmanuel Church in Charleston, South Carolina, and just last year, eleven parishioners at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. As these and countless other hate crimes make clear, people die under the guise of white supremacy. “The House of Representatives rejects White nationalism and White supremacy as hateful expressions of intolerance which are contradictory to the values that define the people of the United States. Comments such as these have no place in a civilized society. What makes this incident sadder is that the Commander-in-Chief—the President of the United States and the person who wields the bully pulpit—has not responded to these hateful comments. When asked of the remarks at issue, the President indicated that he had not heard anything of the matter, despite his posture as a “news junkie.” Therefore it is up to us, the American people, to relish our diversity to honor Dr. King, to live up to the true commitment that we are all equal and that America continues to seek to overcome.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.10.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 9, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Resignation of the Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein Jackson Lee: “History will undoubtedly recount his courage from 2017—Mr. Rosenstein’s appointment of Robert Mueller has been an essential public service to our nation’s understanding of how the world’s oldest democracy was subverted by a hostile foreign power.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement on the announced resignation of Rod Rosenstein as Deputy Attorney General: “Earlier today, the Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein announced his resignation from a post in which he has honorably served since April 2017. History will undoubtedly recount his courage from 2017—Mr. Rosenstein’s decision to appoint Robert Mueller as the Special Counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election, and whether that crime was aided and abetted with associates of the Trump Campaign. News reports indicate that Mr. Rosenstein will not depart the Department of Justice until the United States Senate confirms the President’s nominee to serve as Attorney General, Bill Barr, and nonetheless until the Special Counsel has submitted his final report. “The investigation launched by Mr. Rosenstein’s appointment of Robert Mueller has been an essential public service to our nation’s understanding of how the world’s oldest democracy was subverted by a hostile foreign power. “During his tenure as the Deputy Attorney General, Mr. Rosenstein appeared before the House Judiciary Committee and provided important information on the contours of the investigation. Now that voters have delivered a new Democratic majority to the House of Representatives, I hope DAG Rosenstein finds time, before he departs, to reappear before the newly-constituted Judiciary Committee. I suspect that my colleagues and I have a few questions for him before he departs.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.09.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 8, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement following Additional Criminal Charges against Russian Spy Natalia Veselnitskaya—Key Participant in the June 2016 Trump Tower Meeting Jackson Lee—“The significance of the Trump Tower meeting or the information revealed in today’s federal filing cannot be overstated. The dots are being connected; the full scope of the Russian plan to subvert our democracy, and the extent to which that crime was aided by anyone associated with Trump, is coming into clearer relief.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, issued this statement following news that Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who attended the infamous June 2016 Trump Tower with other associates of the Kremlin and members of the Trump Campaign pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice for concealing contacts with the Russian Federation: “Today, through proceedings in federal court, we learned that the Kremlin-linked lawyer who attended the infamous June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower—where the President’s son, son-in-law, and campaign manager met with associates of the Kremlin when candidate Trump was transitioning from winning the Republican nomination to waging a general election battle—has been charged with obstruction of justice. The lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, was charged with attempting to obstruct federal prosecutors pursuing a criminal investigation of a firm with ties to a prominent Russian businessman and his investment firm. Moreover, today’s information all the more significant in light of the disclosure that Trump Campaign Chairman Paul Manafort lied to the Special Counsel about certain meetings with indicted Russians, and when he stated that he did not share polling information with one of those indicted individuals, Konstan Kiliminik, as an element of Russia’s effort; or did not meet with Mr. Kilimink in Madrid in 2016. It strains credulity to suggest that the principal—Donald Trump—was unaware of this meeting. Put differently, Paul Manafort offered evidence to an agent of a hostile foreign power in order to influence the election, while that hostile foreign power was trying to subvert our democratic processes. “These allegations, if true, represent a greater understanding of the connections that this lawyer had to the Kremlin. Similarly, it also raises serious questions about the propriety of the President’s son, son-in-law and the President’s campaign manager, Paul Manafort, meeting with a lawyer so deeply connected to the Kremlin. The significance of the Trump Tower meeting or the information revealed in today’s federal filing cannot be overstated. The dots are being connected; the full scope of the Russian plan to subvert our democracy, and the extent to which that crime was aided by anyone associated with Trump, is coming into clearer relief. “Today’s news is all the more reason to pass H.R. 197, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act. I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this legislation which, if enacted, this bill would permit any fired special counsel to challenge the termination in federal court, during the pendency of which the investigation would be stayed. This bill incorporates substantive parts of my legislation from the last Congress, which garnered the support of 75% of the Democratic Caucus. I am heartened to know that with this new Congress, this bill will finally receive a hearing in the Committee on the Judiciary and will receive a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.09.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 8, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Death of Dr. John Mendelsohn of the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center Jackson Lee—“From Harvard to Fulbright and into the world of research and medicine, Dr. Mendelsohn made a lasting impact on this world, helping lead and inspire many under his command. A born leader, his impact on the medical field is profound and he will be fondly remembered and greatly missed.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, issued this statement on the passing of Dr. Mendelsohn: “I was very saddened to hear of the death of Dr. John Mendelsohn, the pioneering cancer specialist and former President of the MD Cancer Center in Houston. Throughout Mendelsohn’s long and successful career, he rose to prominence as one of the world’s foremost leaders in the realm of cancer research, helping pioneer a new form of cancer therapy, as well as becoming the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center’s third president. When he stepped down from this position in Summer 2018, he was honored as the Center’s first President Emeritus.” “From Harvard to Fulbright and into the world of research and medicine, Dr. Mendelsohn made a lasting impact on this world, helping lead and inspire many under his command. A born leader, his impact on the medical field is profound and he will be fondly remembered and greatly missed.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.09.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand January 7, 2019 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Introduces Legislation for a Commission to Consider Reparations Proposals for Africans Americans Jackson Lee – “In short, the Commission aims to study the impact of slavery and continuing discrimination against African-Americans, resulting directly and indirectly from slavery to segregation to the desegregation process and the present day. The commission would also make recommendations concerning any form of apology and compensation to begin the long delayed process of atonement for slavery.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement on the introduction of H.R. 40: “The impact of slavery and its vestiges continues to effect African Americans and indeed all Americans in communities throughout our nation. Which is why I am pleased to introduce H.R. 40, the Commission to Study and Develop Reparations Proposals for African Americans Act. This legislation is intended to examine the institution of slavery in the colonies and the United States from 1619 to the present, and further recommend appropriate remedies. Since the initial introduction of this legislation, its proponents have made substantial progress in elevating the discussion of reparations and reparatory justice at the national level and joining the mainstream international debate on the issues. Though some have tried to deflect the importance of these conversations by focusing on individual monetary compensation, the real issue is whether and how this nation can come to grips with the legacy of slavery that still infects current society. Through legislation, resolutions, news, and litigation, we are moving closer to making more strides in the movement toward reparations. “Today there are more people at the table — more activists, more scholars, more CEO’s, more state and local officials, and more Members of Congress. However, despite this progress and the election of the first American President of African descent, the legacy of slavery lingers heavily in this nation. While we have focused on the social effects of slavery and segregation, its continuing economic implications remain largely ignored by mainstream analysis. These economic issues are the root cause of many critical issues in the African-American community today, such as education, healthcare and criminal justice policy, including policing practices. The call for reparations represents a commitment to entering a constructive dialogue on the role of slavery and racism in shaping present-day conditions in our community and American society. “I believe that H.R. 40 is a crucial piece of legislation because it goes beyond exploring the economic implications of slavery and segregation. It is a holistic bill in the sense that it seeks to establish a commission to also examine the moral and social implications of slavery. In short, the Commission aims to study the impact of slavery and continuing discrimination against African-Americans, resulting directly and indirectly from slavery to segregation to the desegregation process and the present day. The commission would also make recommendations concerning any form of apology and compensation to begin the long delayed process of atonement for slavery. With the over criminalization and policing of black bodies, a reoccurring issue in African-American communities, I believe this conversation is both relevant and crucial to restoring trust in governmental institutions in many communities. As in years past, I welcome open and constructive discourse on H.R. 40 and the creation of this commission in the 116th Congress. Though the times and circumstance may change, the principle problem of slavery continues to weigh heavily on this country. A federal commission can help us reach into this dark past and bring us into a brighter future.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.09.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 7, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Introduces Legislation Naming September 2019 as Gospel Music Heritage Month Jackson Lee: “The tradition of diversity remains today, as the influence of gospel music can be found infused in all forms of secular music, including rock and roll, country, soul, rhythm and blues, and countless other styles. Gospel music has a huge audience around the country and around the world, a testament to the universal appeal of a historical American art form that both inspires and entertains across racial, ethnic, religious, and geographic boundaries.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement on the introduction of H.J. Res. 3: “Gospel music is a beloved art form unique to the United States, spanning decades, generations, and races. It is one of the cornerstones of the American music tradition, and has grown beyond its roots to achieve pop-culture and historical relevance. The genre has spread beyond its geographic origins to touch audiences around the world, and beyond its musical roots, which can be traced to multiple and diverse influences and foundations, including African-American spirituals that blended diverse elements from African music and melodic influences from Irish folk songs and hymns, and gospel music ultimately borrowed from uniquely American musical styles, including ragtime, jazz, and blues. The tradition of diversity remains today, as the influence of gospel music can be found infused in all forms of secular music, including rock and roll, country, soul, rhythm and blues, and countless other styles. Gospel music has a huge audience around the country and around the world, a testament to the universal appeal of a historical American art form that both inspires and entertains across racial, ethnic, religious, and geographic boundaries. “In 2008, Senator Blanche Lincoln joined me in introducing legislation naming September as Gospel Music Heritage Month. Through this legislation, the Gospel Music Heritage Month Foundation was established and began celebrating gospel music in the month of September as an American icon and the foundation for many forms of music in America. Groups from around the country also highlight gospel music in this month in their home states. This is why I am pleased to introduce H.J. Res. 3, which would designate September 2019 as Gospel Music Heritage Month, and which would honor gospel music for its valuable and longstanding contributions to the culture of the United States.”
01.09.2019	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand January 7, 2019 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Applauds the Selection of Congressman John Lewis as the Grand Marshall of the 41st Annual Black Heritage Society MLK Day Parade Jackson Lee— “I applaud the decision to name civil rights icon John Lewis—the conscience of the Congress—as the Grand Marshall of the 41st Annual Black Heritage Society MLK Day Parade. Congressman Lewis is a giant of the civil rights movement and on a fateful day in March 1965, he shed blood for the cause when he was beaten by Alabama State Troopers on the Edmund Pettis Bridge in Selma, Alabama. As we honor Dr. King, a champion of peace, it is fitting that we are blessed with the presence of Congressman Lewis to carry forward Dr. King’s message of peace, racial harmony and the pursuit of justice for all people. I am also pleased that Rep. Lewis will be joined by Houston’s very own George Springer, of our beloved Astros, who together with Congressman Lewis, will ensure that this will be a memorable event for all Houstonians.” Houston, TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement on the announcement by Mayor Turner to support the Black Heritage Society’s MLK Day parade as the City of Houston’s official MLK Day parade: “This country and the world were blessed with the grace of Martin Luther King, Jr. His message of unity, community and togetherness galvanized our nation to reckon with this country’s original sin—slavery—and its vestiges, and forced us to do better. The man who stirred our souls in life left this world too soon, fifty years ago. The work of Dr. King endures long after his time on this Earth as evidenced by the countless memorials, honoraria and homages to the man who made his pastoral home at Ebenezer Baptist Church. Each year, we pause and reflect on the life and legacy of Dr. King. Every third weekend in January, in cities and neighborhoods from California to the Catskills, and New Hampshire to Houston, Dr. King’s life is honored through a federal holiday—a recognition that his message of inclusion transcends the reflexive convenience of division, and that this man was greater than his time. Which is why I applaud the decision to name my colleague, civil rights icon John Lewis—the conscience of the Congress—as the Grand Marshall of the 41st Annual Black Heritage Society MLK Day Parade. Congressman Lewis is a giant of the civil rights movement and on a fateful day in March 1965, he shed blood for the cause when he was beaten by Alabama State Troopers on the Edmund Pettis Bridge in Selma, Alabama. As we honor Dr. King, a champion of peace, it is fitting that we are blessed with the presence of Congressman Lewis to carry forward Dr. King’s message of peace, racial harmony and the pursuit of justice for all people. In honor of the sacrifice shown by him and many countless others, retracing the steps of that day, the march they made on a bridge that would soon become a national historic landmark under the presidential administration of Barack Obama. This is hallowed ground for so many others, and I am proud to have commemorated this moment for over the last 15 years by retracing Congressman Lewis’s steps. I am also pleased that Rep. Lewis will be joined as Grand Marshall by Houston’s very own George Springer, of our beloved Astros, who together with Congressman Lewis, will ensure that this will be a memorable event for all Houstonians. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security,
01.09.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand January 4, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Reintroduces Legislation that Strengthens our Democracy, Protects our Communities, Children and Seniors Jackson Lee—“Taken together, these bills will enhance the safety of our communities and enhance the health of all our citizenry, including the elderly and newborns. I look forward to shepherding these bills to final passage.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, issued this statement on the reintroduction of bills related to the safety of our communities and the health of all our citizenry: “As a Member of Congress, the need to care for my constituents is among my most sacred responsibilities. For those in the Eighteenth District of Texas, there are many threats to the health and well-being of my constituents and the values we hold dear. “The need to safeguard our democracy—and the eternal principle of ‘one person, one vote’—is a sacred responsibility. Unfortunately, it has been under assault from various directions, including those seeking to marginalize the electoral voice of our fellow citizens. As a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, the committee of jurisdiction for the Voting Rights Act, I am determined to ensure that the promise of our democracy is available to all. This includes guaranteeing that our legislative districts are not drawn in the middle of the decade, so as to leverage undue partisan gain. This is why I introduced H.R. 44, the Coretta Scott King Mid-Decade Redistricting Prohibition Act of 2017, which would prevent redistricting before the constitutionally prescribed time to do so. “As we conclude one year and begin another, we must reexamine the scourge of gun violence and consider ways to combat it. One such was is closing the Charleston Loophole, so-named because the assailant in the massacre that killed parishioners at Mother Emmanuel Church received his firearm before a complete background check could have been completed—had a background check been thoroughly completed, the assailant would not have received the firearm. The need to stop this practice is why I reintroduced H.R. 49, the Accidental Firearms Transfers Reporting Act of 2017, so that a firearm does not end up in the wrong hands. “And, in the face of budgets that explode our debt and deficit, and tax cuts that disproportionately benefit the wealthiest among us, the need to protect the most vulnerable citizens is why I reintroduced two pieces of legislation related to the health and safety of our citizenry. The first, which will strengthen the social safety net, is H.R. 46, the Social Security Safety Dividend Act, which would ensure that seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities who receive Social Security and certain other Federal benefits receive a $250 payment in the event that no cost-of-living adjustment is payable in a calendar year. The second, H.R. 53, the Baby Switching Protection Act, would require hospitals reimbursed under Medicare, to establish and implement security procedures to reduce the likelihood of infant patient abduction and baby switching, including procedures for identifying all infant patients in the hospital in a manner that ensures that it will be evident if infants are missing from the hospital. “Taken together, these bills will enhance the safety of our communities and enhance the health of all our citizenry, including the elderly and newborns. I look forward to shepherding these bills to final passage.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.09.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand January 4, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls on the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to Organize a Law Enforcement Task Force Including Federal and Local Authorities to Apprehend the Perpetrator in the Murder of Jazmine Barnes Jackson Lee – “The circumstances surrounding Jazmine’s murder, and A’vonta’s shooting in 2017, are suspicious. Based on current information, and while the investigation is still pending, we cannot rule anything out, including whether this horrific incident constituted a hate crime. I call for the formation of a law enforcement task force—compromised of the Harris County Sheriff’s Department, the Houston Police Department, the Houston Constables, the Texas Rangers, the United States Marshals and the F.B.I.—to investigate this murder to apprehend this suspect, ascertain the motive of this murder and the earlier shooting incident, and to bring answers and calm to a city, state and nation troubled by this murder.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement following the release of a sketch of a suspect in the murder of Jazmine Barnes: “The murder of Jazmine Barnes has captured the shock and outrage of our community. Last week, a white man in a red pick-up truck, unprovoked, shot a little girl dead as she and her family were leaving a Wal-Mart parking lot in Wallisville. Since this heinous murder occurred, and reminded all of us of the casual hate that lingers in society, many have been left searching for answers. Most pressing, of course is: who would do such a dastardly deed, and steal the life of a little girl? “I am appreciative that the community has raised $100,000 as a reward to help apprehend the perpetrator(s) behind Jazmine’s murder, especially given concerns that the circumstances surrounding this murder resembles another unsolved incident where an African American man was shot in 2017 near the same Wal-Mart parking lot as near where Jazmine was killed. The victim in that earlier incident, A’vonta Williams, was also shot by a man in a pickup truck, as was little Jazmine. “The circumstances surrounding Jazmine’s murder, and A’vonta’s shooting in 2017, are suspicious. Based on current information, and while the investigation is still pending, we cannot rule anything out, including whether this horrific incident constituted a hate crime. I call for the formation of a law enforcement task force—compromised of the Harris County Sheriff’s Department, the Houston Police Department, the Houston Constables, the Texas Rangers, the United States Marshals and the F.B.I.—to investigate this murder to apprehend this suspect, ascertain the motive of this murder and the earlier shooting incident, and to bring answers and calm to a city, state and nation troubled by this murder.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.09.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand January 4, 2019 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Reintroduces Legislation that Strengthens America's Cyber Defenses and Increased our Cyber Capability Jackson Lee—“Taken together, these bills will enhance the nation’s preparedness to respond to disasters, terrorist threats and incidents, and to safeguard our democracy in the 21st Century. I look forward to shepherding these bills to final passage.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, issues this statement on the reintroduction of bills related to her role as a Senior Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security: “The work that the Committee on Homeland Security does to help keep our nation safe is immeasurable. As Senior Member of the Committee and member since the Committee’s inception, I know firsthand the work done by the Committee, and the harms prevented by its work. Yet, there is so much work to be done to enhance our safety and disaster preparedness. That is why I am proud to announce that I have reintroduced several bills to protect and strengthen the security of the homeland. “For example, it is clear that, as weather patterns grow stronger, wildfires burn hotter, and our sea levels rise, the severity and frequency of natural disasters has increased. That is why I have reintroduced three bills which all work to improve our readiness for unforeseen circumstances. The first, H.R. 42, the FRIENDS Act, would require the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct a study on the circumstances which may impact the effectiveness of our first responders, before, during or after a disaster or terrorist event. I have also reintroduced H.R. 43, the Cyber Vulnerability Disclosure Reporting Act, which requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to report to the Congress on cyber vulnerability disclosures. Last, H.R. 57, the Cyber Defense National Guard Act, would require the conduction of a study on the feasibility of establishing a Civilian Cyber Defense National Resource. “As the Special Counsel’s investigation into the 2016 election makes clear, our electoral apparatuses are vulnerable to attack from external forces. While the Mueller investigation proceeds, it is critical for Congress to ascertain the ways in which the Department of Homeland Security responds to threats to federal elections. This is why I reintroduced H.R. 52, to Protect Our Elections, which requires a report and assessment on these threats. “Taken together, these bills will enhance the nation’s preparedness to respond to disasters, terrorist threats and incidents, and to safeguard our democracy in the 21st Century. I look forward to shepherding these bills to final passage” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.09.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand December 20, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Turmoil in the White House and the Resignation of Defense Secretary James Mattis Jackson Lee – “The president is acting without restraint, endangering the men and women in uniform, and no one knows where this will head next. It is time for the Congress to demand answers and explain to the American people that this is not acceptable.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement on the news of the resignation of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis: “Sadly, we have a president who makes grave decisions about national security by tweet, the latest being the reckless and irrational withdrawal of U.S. Troops from Syria over the opposition of his entire national security team. And now, Defense Secretary James Mattis, a seasoned and decorated soldier, has announced that he will be retiring in at the end of February, undoubtedly because of his disagreements with this undisciplined president, who was never prepared for the highest job in the land. “The president is acting without restraint, endangering the men and women in uniform, and no one knows where this will head next. It is time for the Congress to demand answers and end this constitutional crisis.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand December 7, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the President’s Intent to Nominate Bill Barr to be the Next Attorney General Jackson Lee – “The president has announced that he intends to nominate an individual who, if confirmed, will serve as the nation’s top law enforcement officer. He will have domain over a wide range of critical legal issues, including civil rights, voting rights, our criminal justice system, and many others. This nomination should be subjected to the same rigors as any other nominee to assess his fitness for this position. And, when his confirmation hearings begin, I plan to attend those hearings and submit testimony concerning this nomination. Yet this nominee must also make clear his impartiality and objectivity with respect to one critical additional issue: it is vital that any Attorney General confirmed by the Senate only receive his/her commission after pledging not to interfere with the Special Counsel’s investigation. Anything short of this assurance amounts to a tacit endorsement of the President’s now three-year assault on the rule of law.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement following news that the President intends to nominate William Barr to serve as Attorney General: “Earlier today, the President announced his intention to nominate William Barr to be the next Attorney General of the United States. This would be his third Attorney General—the first drew the President’s ire and was unceremoniously forced out of the position for failing to reverse his recusal from the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and whether that crime was aided and abetted by members of the Trump Campaign. The second and current Attorney General does not possess the background, training and experience for the position, is not Senate confirmed, is of a dubious appointment which is currently the subject of many legal actions in federal court. “While Mr. Barr is undoubtedly qualified for the position, it is not his educational pedigree which is problematic. Instead, Mr. Barr has made a series of statements touching upon the Special Counsel’s investigation that call into question his objectiveness, and whether he can be relied upon to successfully execute the mandates of the Special Counsel’s investigation. For example, Mr. Barr has questioned—implicitly—the impartiality of the team assembled by the Special Counsel, implying that there must be more balance in the political affiliations of the members of the Special Counsel’s team. This is not a benign statement. It, and others he has made, directly bear upon critical issues, witnesses and cross-sections of the Special Counsel’s investigation. “Indeed, the work done by the Special Counsel is critical to Americans’ confidence in our election systems, to ensure that the interference by a hostile, foreign adversary does not ever again occur, and bring those nefariously involved in the 2016 election to justice. I have long been concerned with ensuring the Special Counsel is permitted to continue his investigation. This is why over a year ago, I introduced H.R. 3654, the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, which garnered the support of over 150 members of Congress. I am also proud that substantial portions of H.R. 3654 were incorporated into H.R. 5476, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, which I introduced with Congressman Jerry Nadler, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, and Congressman Steve Cohen, the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution. If enacted into law, H.R. 5476 would permit an affected Special Counsel to require judicial ratification of any termination, during the pendency of which the investigation would be stayed, and immune from any interference from the President, or others. If the President proceeds with his intention, I encourage the United States Senate to conduct a fulsome and searching inquiry of this candidate, and his fitness to serve in this position. “The timing of this news is also noteworthy. Today, a number of critical events are scheduled to occur: former FBI Director Comey is to testify in a transcribed interview before the House Judiciary Committee; also, sentencing memoranda from the Special Counsel as they relate to Michael Cohen, the President’s former trusted personal attorney, and Paul Manafort, the president’s former campaign manager are also due to be filed today. If past is prologue, these filings are sure to shed more light on exactly how and the extent to which Russia interfered with our election in 2016. “The president has announced that he intends to nominate an individual who, if confirmed, will serve as the nation’s top law enforcement officer. He will have domain over a wide range of critical legal issues, including civil rights, voting rights, our criminal justice system. This nomination should be subjected to the same rigors as any other nominee to assess his fitness for this position. And, when his confirmation hearings begin, I plan to attend those hearings and submit testimony concerning this nomination. Yet this nominee must also make clear his impartiality and objectivity with respect to one critical additional issue: it is vital that any Attorney General confirmed by the Senate only receive his/her commission after pledging not to interfere with the Special Counsel’s investigation. Anything short of this assurance amounts to a tacit endorsement of the President’s now three-year assault on the rule of law.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand December 7, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day 2018 Jackson Lee: “Unfortunately with each day that passes, we lose to time another member of the Greatest Generation. This week, the nation paused and said farewell to a remarkable member of that era, our 41st president of the United States. As we remember him and the entire Bush Family, let us also remember and keep in our hearts all who fought and died in service of freedom and liberty, and especially those whom we lost today 77 years ago, and who fought in World War II, and who forever will be known as the greatest generation.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day 2018: “Today marks the 77th anniversary of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. On December 7, 1941, Japanese military executed a surprise attack on our Naval bases. The next day, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt declared the day of the attack as one which will live in infamy. The attack precipitated our entry into World War II. “The five years which would follow set the table for the second half of the 20th century. Due to the valiant and heroic efforts of our nation’s fighting forces, together with our allies, the United States would lead the Allied Forces to victory, establish itself as a hegemonic power, and safeguard liberty for the liberal western order for all the days to come. With this power came great responsibility and the days since World War II have seen an America which has underwritten the global democratic order for over seven decades. “The fighting forces of that time are often referred to as the Greatest Generation. Unfortunately with each day that passes, we lose to time another member of the Greatest Generation. This week, the nation paused and said farewell to a remarkable member of that era, our 41st president of the United States. As we remember him and the entire Bush Family in our hearts, let us also remember and keep in our hearts all who fought and died in service of freedom and liberty, and especially those whom we lost today 77 years ago, and who fought in World War II, and who forever will be known as the greatest generation.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
12.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand December 6, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Denounces the Trump Organization’s Decision to Rent 500 Hotel Rooms to Saudi Arabia Following the Inauguration and Urges Oversight hearings on possible Violations of the Emoluments Clause Jackson Lee: “However, in light of yesterday’s story in the Post, the more likely explanation for Trump’s obsequiousness to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and his deference to its crown prince, is that he and his family have significant, undisclosed financial interests with the Kingdom. Thus, it appears that the foreign policy of the United States is being improperly influenced by the personal financial interests of the president. We will be certain, of course, when the President is forced to release his tax returns and the American people can see—for themselves—that the President’s interests and motivations appear to be improperly influenced by his own pecuniary interests. To protect the nation against this type of betrayal, is precisely why the Framers included the Emoluments Clause in our Constitution.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following a report in the Washington Post indicating that following Trump’s election, a lobbyist for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia booked 500 rooms at the Trump Hotel in Washington, D.C.: “Yesterday the Washington Post reported that shortly after Election Night 2016, and it was apparent that Donald Trump had secured a majority of votes in the Electoral College, lobbyists working for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) had reserved 500 hotel rooms in the Trump Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue, in Washington D.C., changing reservations from a non-Trump owned property. This follows other reports that the KSA has been increasing occupancy at properties also owned by the President, in Chicago and New York. Furthermore, it appears that lobbyists secured rooms on behalf of a veterans group. If true, this represents a rather cynical attempt to cloak the Trump Organization’s questionable business activity by using a veterans group to distract from this unseemly—and possibly illegal—act. But, then again, nothing more can be expected from a man who, thus far during his almost 23 months as President, has failed to visit troops while they are serving overseas. If true, and given the headlines of the last two months, this represents a serious concern that merits investigation for many reasons. “In October 2018, an American national and columnist for the Washington Post who was critical of KSA, Jamal Khashoggi, walked into the Saudi Embassy in Istanbul, Turkey, and never was seen alive again. American intelligence agencies assessed with high confidence that Mr. Khashoggi was dismembered, and his body parts disintegrated after they were placed in acid. In the face of this intelligence assessment, the Kingdom has steadfastly denied any involvement in Khashoggi’s murder, and it has also sought to deny the role played by the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammad bin Salman (MBS). Moreover, to add insult to injury, the President has yet again doubted the assessment of our intelligence communities with glibness, simply dismissing MBS’s and KSA’s role as unproven and ultimately immaterial, because the KSA is purchaser of military equipment from the United States and to criticize Mr. Khashoggi’s murderers would be detrimental to the financial health of the United States. “However, in light of yesterday’s story in the Post, the more likely explanation for Trump’s obsequiousness to the KSA, and his deference to MBS, is that he and his family have significant, undisclosed financial interests with the Kingdom. Thus, it appears that the foreign policy of the United States is being improperly influenced by the personal financial interests of the president. We will be certain, of course, when the President is forced to release his tax returns and the American people can see—for themselves—that the President’s interests and motivations appear to be improperly influenced by his own pecuniary interests. To protect the nation against this type of betrayal, is precisely why the Framers included the Emoluments Clause in our Constitution. “While the President may try to stonewall legitimate requests to inspect his tax returns as a means of conducting oversight, Democrats are poised to fill the vacuum left by GOP inaction and determine how and why the foreign policy of the United States is being influenced by these factors. During the weeks and months leading up to the November 2018 elections, Democrats pledged to clean up corruption and make Washington work for everyday Americans. When the current occupant of the White House looks the other way on the premediated murder of an American national, Congressional oversight is required to determine the reasons for this betrayal of American values. So Americans can rest assured that when the 116th Congress begins, Democrats will conduct oversight on this and other matters. As Justice Brandeis observed, ‘sunlight is the best disinfectant.’ Additionally, Americans can also rest assured that while the President is currently trampling over our traditions and undermining our institutions, our federal government’s other branches are filling the void. The President’s apparent violations of the Emoluments Clause are currently the subject of two active lawsuits in our federal courts. A judge in one of those lawsuits has recently permitted discovery to proceed, so that we may learn the sources of the President’s possible conflicts of interest. This may explain why China’s recent transgressions into the South China Sea have been unmet by an American response at the same time it has approved trademarks for the President’s daughter; or, why the President continues to publicly deny the Intelligence Community’s unanimous assessment that Russia conspired to interfere with the 2016 election. “The time has come for the American people to learn more about what motivates this individual who lost the popular vote by 3,000,000 votes and whose public statements invite skepticism about his true allegiance(s). Fortunately for all Americans who share these concerns, the 116th Congress will provide some relief from two years of unchecked behavior and confounding actions. A better deal awaits.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
12.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand December 6, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Denounces Attempts to Stifle the Will of the People In Wisconsin and Michigan and attempts to Steal Ballots in North Carolina Jackson Lee: “All told, together with voter suppression tactics, and politically and racially gerrymandered legislative districts, this represents yet another anti-democratic tactic employed by the GOP in an attempt cling on to power, despite the fact that their policies were just rejected at the ballot box. I encourage all fair-minded individuals and entities across the land to speak out against this effort and protect our democratic form of government.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following the discovery that absentee ballots in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District were stolen, and GOP-controlled state legislatures in Wisconsin and Michigan are acting to subvert the will of voters by using lame duck sessions to strip powers of incoming Democratic governors: “Last month, fueled by record turnout for a Midterm election, and widespread disapproval of the President, the Republican party and their policies, voters went to the polls and delivered resounding victories to Democrats. Democrats won control of the House of Representatives, wrestled control of seven Governors’ offices, and won nearly 400 state legislative districts. Across the nation, House Democratic candidates won a resounding 54% of the vote and a victory margin of 8.4 million votes—the largest in history. The period following the election has been marked by ugly power grabs, and other issues related to the election. North Carolina has been especially problematic. A state whose racial gerrymandering laws were so onerous the law was considered to disenfranchise certain voters with almost surgical precision, North Carolina once more finds its self at the fore of questionable, undemocratic conduct. This is most apparent in the Ninth Congressional District of North Carolina, where it has been revealed that wholesale theft of absentee ballots occurred, calling into question the final tally. I call upon state officials in North Carolina to refrain from certifying the results from this race until an investigation has occurred, and in the event of certification does occur, I urge the House of Representatives not to seat the certified Republican winner until the matter is fully investigated and resolved. “Yet, this is not the only instance of GOP efforts to frustrate the popular will. In Michigan and Wisconsin, GOP lawmakers are using their lame duck sessions to radically constrict the powers of the incoming governor. In both cases an incoming Democrat is replacing an outgoing Republican. The practical effect of this move is constricting the powers of those duly elected to serve the people. “It is especially odious that this is happening after an election, and after the will of the people has been gauged, and after they have chosen a different course. All told, together with voter suppression tactics, and politically and racially gerrymandered legislative districts, this represents yet another anti-democratic tactic employed by the GOP in an attempt cling on to power, despite the fact that their policies were just rejected at the ballot box. I encourage all fair-minded individuals and entities across the land to speak out against this effort and protect our democratic form of government.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
12.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand December 7, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the President’s Intent to Nominate Heather Nauert as the United States Ambassador to the United Nations Jackson Lee – “As a key member of our foreign policy team, the position of United States Ambassador to the United Nations is too important to be given to a political novice as a personal favor. The position requires expertise of issues disrupting the global order, experience dealing with competing international interests, and an ability to persuade and mobilize leaders to discern shared interests and act accordingly. Instead, the president has nominated a television personality, and not much more, much the same way the country elected a television personality, and not much more, and we are collectively daily living with the consequences.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement following news the President intends to nominate Heather Nauert as the United States Ambassador to the United Nations: “This morning, the President announced his intention to nominate Heather Nauert to serve as the Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations. If confirmed, she will follow in the tradition of diplomatic legends, such as: Adlai Stevenson, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Jeanne Kirkpatrick, Andrew Young, Madeline Albright, Tom Pickering, Susan Rice and the man whom we lost and mourned this week, the 41st President of the United States: George Herbert Walker Bush. “The United States Mission to the United Nations is a representation of our nation’s commitment to maintain a freer, safer world since well before the formation of the United Nations. Which is why the intent to nominate Heather Nauert is all the more confounding. At best, Ms. Nauert has fleeting political or policy experience. Her sole qualifications for the position appears to be a congenial television manner—i.e., time served as an anchor on the President’s favorite morning television news show, and later as press secretary of the State Department—and a positive rapport with our current Secretary of State. If confirmed, she would be the third Fox News television personality whom the President has selected for service in the administration. “A closer look at her qualification yields no tangible training or experience for the position to which she will be nominated. In this respect, nominating individuals unqualified for the positions in which they would serve is a proud tradition for the Trump Administration, and Ms. Nauert’s likely nomination follows in a long line of dubious appointments, such as: his son-in-law to lead our efforts to bring peace to the Middle-East; his personal bodyguard to be head of Oval Office Operations; the president’s personal medical doctor to serve the Secretary of the Veterans Administration; a former surgeon, with no experience in urban planning or municipal issues, to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; and a stay-at-home grandmother, and sister of a putative subject of the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian interference into the 2016 election to be the nation’s education secretary. “But, as a key member of our foreign policy team, the position of United States Ambassador to the United Nations is too important to be given to a political novice as a personal favor. The position requires expertise of issues disrupting the global order, experience dealing with competing international interests, and an ability to persuade and mobilize leaders to discern shared interests and act accordingly. Instead, the president has nominated a television personality, and not much more, much the same way the country elected a television personality, and not much more, and we are collectively daily living with the consequences. I implore the United States Senate to conduct a fulsome and searching inquiry of this candidate, and her fitness to serve in this position, and to subject her to the most exacting scrutiny to ensure that she is equipped to discharge the responsibilities attendant to this position.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.03.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand December 3, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Travels Today to Washington, D.C., to Participate in the Congressional United States Capitol Rotunda Arrival Ceremony for Former President George H.W. Bush as he lies in State Jackson Lee—“Throughout these tributes you will hear of the many times former President George H.W. Bush and the late Barbara Bush touched people’s lives personally. We all would wonder just how people with so many responsibilities could take time to reach out to young students, neighbors and just plain people. Elwyn, my husband, and I will always remember the very special package that came wrapped from China to us as a wedding gift from then-ambassador Bush and Mrs. Bush. George H.W. Bush’s life from the very beginning was, in and of itself, a thousand points of life. We will dearly miss him. As the nation mourns him, we say we love you—George H.W. Bush—and we will miss you.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, of the 18th Congressional District of Texas, issued this statement on her plans to pay her respects to former President George H.W. Bush: “The series of tributes coming forth in honor of former President George H.W. Bush, whom we lost on Friday at the age of 94, will undoubtedly speak of the impact he had on people’s lives. Yet, no recognition of this giant would be complete without mentioning Houston, the home of the Bush family for many decades. I applaud my beloved hometown of Houston as we honor the 41st President of the United States this evening at 7pm for a citywide ceremony. However, while I would otherwise attend this event, as a senior member of the United States House of Representatives and of the delegation representing Texas in the United States Congress, I will travel to Washington, D.C., later today and at 5pm, I will participate in an arrival ceremony for the casket carrying the body of our beloved former president, representing part of the congressional district that President George H.W. Bush represented during his service as a member of the House of Representatives. Then, on Wednesday, I will attend the funeral services for President George H.W. Bush at the National Cathedral, where on behalf of a grateful nation, I will pay my respects on behalf of all in the Eighteenth Congressional District.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.03.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand December 1, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Passing of the 41st President of the United States George H.W. Bush Jackson Lee—“Throughout his long time in public life, he demonstrated unwavering fidelity to country, and it manifested itself in several ways, but is best articulated by President Bush himself, during his 1989 inaugural address: ‘I’ve spoken of a thousand points of light, of all the community organizations that are spread like stars throughout the nation doing good. I will go to the people and the programs that are the brighter points of light and I will ask every member of my government to become involved. The old ideas are new again because they are not old, they are timeless: duty, sacrifice, commitment, and a patriotism that finds its expression in taking part and pitching in.’” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, of the 18th Congressional District of Texas, issued this statement on the death of George H. W. Bush, the 41st President of the United States: “His was a life of love: for God, for Country, and for family. George H.W. Bush, whom we lost yesterday at the age of 94, was a giant among men. He served our nation for most of the last seven decades, in so many of the institutions and sectors that make our country great. “We were all very lucky to have him as long as we did. As the second youngest naval aviator, he was shot down during one of countless flights in the Pacific theater of World War II, leaving him stranded in the ocean for many hours—his life in danger and with rescue uncertain. Fortunately for him and the hundreds of millions of people across the globe who were touched by his leadership and mourn him today, he would be found alive and brought home. That night in September 1944 would prove fateful to this man, and the country he would serve and that we all love. When he returned home, he married the woman who would be by his side for 73 years and serve as our nation’s First Lady, Barbara Pierce Bush. Theirs was a bond so strong that it is perhaps no coincidence that they left us within mere months of one another. Together, they created a prolific and legendary American political dynasty dedicated to public service, including: a son who would serve as governor of Texas and later become the 43rd President, George W. Bush; and Jeb Bush, who would serve two terms as governor of Florida. “President George H.W. Bush’s life was one marked by service to country: in the military, as a member of the United States House of Representatives from Texas, as part of our nation’s diplomatic corps, as director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and as Vice President of the United States, before he would be elected the 41st President of the United States. His tenure as our nation’s Chief Executive is one for which we should all be grateful, as he presided over a remarkable period of geopolitical transition and progress, including the end of the Cold War, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the successful administration of Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, and a commitment to denuclearization as a means to achieve diplomatic ends. “And, he did not let electoral defeat diminish him or his commitment to public service. When they were both former presidents, George H.W. Bush and his successor –the man who would deny him reelection—Bill Clinton, joined together to help victims following the devastating tsunami in Indonesia in 2004, and to help hurricane victims in New Orleans following Katrina. Throughout his long time in public life, he demonstrated unwavering fidelity to country, and it manifested itself in several ways, but is best articulated by President Bush himself, during his 1989 inaugural address: ‘I’ve spoken of a thousand points of light, of all the community organizations, that are spread like stars throughout the nation doing good. I will go to the people and the programs that are the brighter points of light and I will ask every member of my government to become involved. The old ideas are new again because they are not old, they are timeless: duty, sacrifice, commitment, and a patriotism that finds its expression in taking part and pitching in.’ “I know that today, people across the land and indeed the world are remembering this giant of American life. Of course, those of us in Houston also mourn and celebrate a neighbor, whom we loved, whose life we remember, and whose presence in our community is something we will forever cherish. Though he has departed, we are grateful for the time we shared with him and for his service to our nation. I mourn the passing of this statesman, but also celebrate his life. In this time, I extend my deepest sympathies to the entire Bush Family and hold them close in my heart. May God bless President George H.W. Bush, the entire Bush Family, and may he rest in peace.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.30.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand November 30, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commemorates World Aids Day 2018 Jackson Lee— “Our focus on HIV/AIDS prevention and awareness will be to ensure all of our friends, relatives, and children live healthy and full lives. We must continue to strengthen – not weaken – our national and international efforts to combat AIDS and other infectious diseases so that we may achieve the goal of an AIDS-free generation.” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, and a former member of the House Committee on Science, Space & Technology, issued this statement on World AIDS Day: “Tomorrow marks World AIDS Day and affords us the opportunity to reflect on our progress in the fight against the global AIDS pandemic and to rededicate ourselves to ending the disease once and for all. We have made great strides since the first World AIDS Day in 1988 by dramatically expanding investments in HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment, and research. Strong advocacy has paved the way for the Ryan White Act, the Housing Opportunities for People with AIDS Initiative, growing investments in NIH research, and an end to the ban on federal funds for syringe exchange. Beyond our borders, our efforts have extended care to millions in the developing world, through increased resources for PEPFAR and the Global Fund. “Our investments have saved lives – preventing millions of new HIV cases, expanding access to improved treatments, and enabling medical advances that help HIV/AIDS patients live longer and healthier. While our efforts have grown, we still only reach half of all people eligible for HIV treatment; and more must be done. “We must continue to work with programs and clinics, like the Harris County Hospital District (HCHD), who are treating and caring for patients with HIV/AIDS. Our focus on HIV/AIDS prevention and awareness will be to ensure all of our friends, relatives and children live healthy and full lives. We must continue to strengthen – not weaken – our national and international efforts to combat AIDS and other infectious diseases so that we may achieve the goal of an AIDS-free generation. “Finally, we must honor the memory of those we have lost and act on our hope, optimism, and determination to end the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Together, we can stand hand in hand and continue the fight against AIDS.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.30.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand November 30, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges the President to Withdraw the Nomination of Thomas Farr to a Seat on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina Jackson Lee – “Thomas Farr has devoted his legal career to suppressing votes and intimidating and disenfranchising voters, specifically African American voters. In addition, he has actively undermined the rights of workers who have experienced workplace discrimination. And, he defended a car rental franchisee that violated the civil rights of African Americans by discriminating against them regarding terms, conditions and prices. I am gratified that a majority of the Senate is now on record in opposition to this nominee. I urge the President to formally withdraw the nomination.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement following Senate rejection of Thomas Farr to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina: “As the confirmation process has unfolded, Thomas Farr has been revealed to have made a career of suppressing voters and intimidating African American voters. Thomas Farr has a dismal record in opposition to voting rights and worker rights. Moreover, he has a decades-long record of defending voter suppression tactics, including Voter ID laws and racial gerrymandering. In addition, he has actively undermined the rights of workers who have experienced workplace discrimination by successfully fighting to invalidate a county ordinance that protected employees from discrimination. And, his defense of a car rental company in a lawsuit for denying African Americans the right to rent cars on the same terms as white customers, was among his most egregious acts, and crystallized the reasons to oppose this individual, and which is why he failed to win confirmation by the United States Senate. “In 1992, Tom Farr served as counsel for former Senator Jesse Helms. In that role, he defended the campaign against the United States Department of Justice’s complaints of voter intimidation after the Helms Campaign sent post cards to 100,000 African American voters claiming they were ineligible to vote and may be arrested if they voted. This would not be the last time Mr. Farr would make such a representation. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, before which Mr. Farr appeared to defend North Carolina’s election laws criticized the law Mr. Farr sought to uphold by stating that it targeted African American voters ‘with almost surgical precision.’ The concerns surrounding gerrymandered legislative districts is not new as the practice denies the longstanding principle of one person one vote, but it reached new heights in response to the districts drawn by North Carolina with the aid of Thomas Farr. For example, in the 2018 midterm elections, Republicans received approximately 50% of the aggregate vote total for congressional elections, but won 10 of 13 congressional elections. This practice, of course, is not foreign to Texas, which some scholars have noted is the poster child of gerrymandered districts. “Thomas Farr is no ordinary nominee. Indeed, the rejection of this judicial nomination represents a rare moment where partisanship yielded to decency, and an act which represents a victory not only for the State of North Carolina, but also for our whole nation. In view of the strong opposition of Republican Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, it is clear that this individual lacks the support in the Senate to be seated. Accordingly, the President should act swiftly to withdraw this nomination and avert the stain on the federal judiciary that this nominee would represent.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.30.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 30, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Attends the Inauguration of Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and Looks Forward to Holding High-Level, Bilateral Discussions to Address Problems of Mutual Concern to Both Countries Jackson Lee—“During my visit to the Mexican Federation, I look forward to participating in high-level meetings to consider ways we can address the humanitarian and diplomatic issues emanating from our shared border.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement on the occasion of the inauguration of the next president of Mexico, and on the need to engage in a frank discussion to solve issues of mutual concern to both nations: “As a senior member of the United House of Representatives, I am honored to be the senior member of a delegation of members of Congress to Mexico to attend the inauguration of the incoming President, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. This event comes at an important time in the relationship of our countries and the history of our two republics. This moment for the Mexican people coincides almost two years after our nation experienced a change of leadership. “Our neighbor to the south, Mexico, is one of our nation’s most important allies. Mexico is one of America’s largest trading partners. To illustrate, last year trade between our two countries surpassed $500 billion, aided in no small part by the North American Free Trade Agreement, a signature accomplishment of President Bill Clinton. NAFTA’s success was not limited to trade. The pact brought our two neighbors closer together, fostered better relations on the continent, and improved the ability to collaborate on issues important to the health and safety of citizens of both countries. “One such challenge confronting our countries is presently occurring at our southern border. The failure of both countries to adequately anticipate the cascading and commensurate issues arising from the immigration issue. One such cascading issue is the health and safety of men, women and children actively waiting to claim asylum or otherwise migrate to the United States. Heavy rain and other periodic inclement weather has posed conditions hazardous to health, and conducive to waterborne and other diseases. Because the prospect for widespread contagion is real, both Mexico and the United States must provide medical staff to ensure that these occasions for disease do not evolve to present regional threats. “In the United States, we need comprehensive immigration system which includes border security, and guidelines for the conduct of these border agents who, it should be reminded, work for the American people. Border patrol agents are equipped with millions of dollars of equipment in the form night vision goggles, utility vehicles, and other resources. These resources must only be deployed consistent with universal humanitarian norms. “The situation also calls for a comprehensive process for dealing with an international human right—the right to seek asylum to escape persecution. This includes courts, judges and lawyers equipped to handle the process as it is unfolding in the United States, and also those who can collaborate with Mexico to this end. For Mexico and its neighbors to the south, I call on Central American countries from where these migrants are emanating, and the countries they traversed on the way to our border, to consider ways in which this crisis can be curtailed, and the plight of these human beings lightened. I also call on Mexico to create a humanitarian zone, equipped with clean water facilities for all seeking asylum. Rather than creating hysteria, the United States President should instead make a commitment to processing these asylum claims in an orderly fashion. “During my visit to the Mexican Federation, I also look forward to participating in high-level meetings to consider ways we can address the humanitarian crisis at our shared border. As a senior member of Congress whose district is home to one of the nation’s busiest ports and is one of the largest cities by the border, both issues are of vital importance to me, and the constituents I represent in the Eighteenth District of Texas. “As part of this bilateral dialogue, I also look forward to a robust exchange of frank and innovative solutions to some of our respective nations’ shared challenges. This moment represents an opportunity for both nations to confront and tackle the issues which, from time-to-time, challenge the relationship between our two republics—anchors of democracy, partners in peace, working together for the good all people.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.29.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand November 29, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following Today’s Guilty Plea by the President’s Former Personal Attorney Jackson Lee – “Today’s plea by Mr. Cohen represents yet another milestone in the Special Counsel’s investigation, which the president has dismissed as a witch hunt. For a witch hunt, the Special Counsel’s investigation has found many witches. To date, the Special Counsel’s investigation has returned indictments and secured convictions or guilty pleas from over three dozen individuals, including the President’s first national security advisor, his campaign chairman, his deputy campaign chairman, his personal attorney, a former foreign policy advisor and dozens of associates of the Kremlin.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement following today’s guilty plea by the president’s former lawyer to the Special Counsel: “This morning, in a federal courthouse in Manhattan, Michael Cohen, the president’s trusted former personal lawyer, pleaded guilty to a criminal charge related to the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian interference and whether and to what extent this crime was aided and abetted by associates of the Trump Campaign. Specifically, Mr. Cohen was found to have lied to the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence regarding whether associates of the Trump Organization were pursuing business opportunities during the 2016 presidential campaign. “These developments follow a whirlwind of developments in recent weeks. For example, Special Counsel Mueller rescinded the plea agreement reached with Paul Manafort, the president’s former campaign manager, over allegations that Mr. Manafort lied during his discussions with the Special Counsel. While that was unfolding, the President terminated his Attorney General—whose recusal from the Russia investigation, spurred by a perceived conflict of interest was the impetus for the Special Counsel’s investigation—was terminated and replaced by an ally of the President. Just this week, an individual considered to be privy to information related to WikiLeak’s dissemination of stolen emails designed to harm the campaign of Hillary Clinton reneged on his plea agreement with the Special Counsel’s office. Meanwhile, the public has been watching the president publicly dangle promises of pardons in front of witnesses perceived to be in the crosshairs of the Special Counsel’s investigation, and those uniquely positioned to incriminate the President, his associates, and members of his family for wholesale wrongdoing. And, just this morning, law enforcement raided the German offices of Deutsche Bank, which is infamous for being the only bank willing to lend money to Donald Trump following his many filings for bankruptcy. “Lying to Congress is a serious crime, and undermines Congress’s constitutional duty to conduct oversight of the Executive Branch. Today’s plea by Mr. Cohen represents yet another milestone in the Special Counsel’s investigation, which the president has dismissed as a witch hunt. To be certain, for a witch hunt, the Special Counsel’s investigation has found many witches. To date, the Special Counsel’s investigation has returned indictments and secured convictions or guilty pleas from over three dozen individuals, including the President’s first national security advisor, his campaign chairman, his deputy campaign chairman, his personal attorney, a former foreign policy advisor and dozens of associates of the Kremlin. “Indeed, the work done by the Special Counsel is critical to Americans’ confidence in our election systems, to ensure that the interference by a hostile, foreign adversary does not ever again occur, and bring those nefariously involved in the 2016 election to justice. I have long been concerned with ensuring the Special Counsel is permitted to continue his investigation. This is why over a year ago, I introduced H.R. 3654, the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, which garnered the support of over 150 members of Congress. I am also proud that substantial portions of H.R. 3654 were incorporated into H.R. 5476, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, which I introduced with Congressman Jerry Nadler, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, and Congressman Steve Cohen, the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution. If enacted into law, H.R. 5476 would permit an affected Special Counsel to require judicial ratification of any termination, during the pendency of which the investigation would be stayed, and immune from any interference from the President, or others.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.28.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 27, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls on a Congressional Delegation to visit our Southern Border to Investigate the Plight of Migrants Seeking Asylum Jackson Lee—“The situation also calls for a comprehensive process for dealing with an international human right—the right to seek asylum to escape persecution. This includes courts, judges and lawyers equipped to handle the process as it is unfolding in the United States, and also those who can collaborate with Mexico to this end. I also call on the central American countries from where these migrants are emanating, and the countries they traversed on the way to our border, to consider ways in which this crisis can be curtailed, and the plight of these human beings lightened.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations issued this statement following a confrontation between migrants seeking asylum and U.S. Border Patrol Agents, near the U.S.-Mexico border: “The news and the images from the southern border are heartbreaking. What began as a manufactured crisis as a cynical attempt to scare voters ahead of the historic 2018 midterms election has now devolved into a heartbreaking scene at our southern border, replete with Americans firing tear gas onto Mexican land. Fortunately, the American people saw this ploy for what it was: a brazen political act designed to sow fear towards immigrants, and doubts about America’s place as the last best hope of the world. Three weeks ago, voters gave their resounding verdict on these types of scare tactics and delivered victories to those opposing the President’s activities and actions at the border. Left in the wake are migrants striving to come to our land in search of a better life, many of whom are coming from Honduras and Guatemala and other central American countries torn asunder by horrific gang violence. “These migrants, currently at our southern border, near Tijuana, Mexico, face an uncertain future as they wait while their applications for asylum are processed. There are currently between 5,000 and 7,000 migrants awaiting processing, and the Trump Administration is currently limiting the number of new asylum applications processed to between 40-100. The scene near the border is disturbing and requires further investigation action. This is why I am proposing a Congressional Delegation to Mexico to visit with the President Enrique Pena Nieto and the new incoming President-Elect, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, to discuss diplomatic responses to what is occurring at the U.S.-Mexico border. “In actuality, the events transpiring at the border are a symptom of a larger ailment—a broken immigration system. This series of event has created a situation that demands comprehensive immigration system which includes border security, and guidelines for the conduct of these border agents who, it should be reminded, work for the American people. The situation also calls for a comprehensive process for dealing with an international human right—the right to seek asylum to escape persecution. This includes courts, judges and lawyers equipped to handle the process as it is unfolding in the United States, and also those who can collaborate with Mexico to this end. I also call on the central American countries from where these migrants are emanating, and the countries they traversed on the way to our border, to consider ways in which this crisis can be curtailed, and the plight of these human beings lightened.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.28.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 27, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commends NASA and JPL on the Arrival of the Lander Insight on the Planet Mars Jackson Lee—“It is often said that ‘great achievement knows no roadmap.’ Insight’s mission to Mars is to study seismic activity, to ultimately determine whether the Red Planet once did, or could in the future, support life. I hope Insight and NASA achieve its goals, and so much more. In the meanwhile, we are left with the promise and the wonder of what Insight will yield, and what achievement will surely follow. I congratulate all at NASA and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a former member of the House Committee on Science, Space & Technology, issued this statement following news that NASA and JPL had successfully launched and delivered the Lander Insight to Mars: “I commend NASA for its remarkable accomplishment in delivering the Insight Lander on the surface of the Planet Mars. This is an extraordinary moment for NASA, our nation, and especially the countless staff at NASA—the scientists, analysts and all who supported this mission, especially those in my hometown of Houston, where NASA has a home at the Johnson Space Center—who helped make this day possible. Insight’s landing on Mars is a function of many things: it represents a faith and belief in science and facts; it is a testament to teamwork, and what can have accomplished when people put mission and country, above self; and it represents the limitless possibilities of space, as a source of knowledge, inspiration and awe. “It is often said that ‘great achievement knows no roadmap.’ Insight’s mission to Mars is to study seismic activity, to ultimately determine whether the Red Planet once did or could in the future support life. I hope Insight and NASA achieve its goals, and so much more. In the meanwhile, we are left with the promise and the wonder of what Insight will yield, and what achievement will surely follow. I congratulate all at NASA and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.28.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 27, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Demands that Congress Pass Legislation to Protect the Special Counsel Following Reports that Former Trump Campaign Manager met with Wikileaks Founder Julian Assange Jackson Lee—“If true, this represents an extraordinary breach of our democratic process. This news coincides with news that the President has submitted limited written responses about whether he or associates of his campaign conspired with the Russian federation to subvert the most recent presidential election. The news also comes as the Country has been witnessing an increase of erratic tweets coming from the President, lamenting the Special Counsel’s investigation.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations issued this statement following news that former Trump Campaign Chairman Paul Manafort met with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in 2013, 2015 and 2016: “Earlier today, The Guardian Newspaper reported that former Trump Campaign Chairman Paul Manafort, a convicted felon currently awaiting sentencing in two separate jurisdictions, met with Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, many times in the years leading up to the 2016 elections. The inference is clear: the meetings were held to discuss the eventual role that WikiLeaks could and did play in the selective dissemination of stolen emails belonging to the DNC and associates of the Clinton campaign, including chairman John Podesta. If true, this represents an extraordinary breach of our democratic process. This news coincides with news that the President has submitted limited written responses about whether he or associates of his campaign conspired with the Russian federation to subvert the most recent presidential election. The news also comes as the Country has been witnessing an increase of erratic tweets coming from the President, lamenting the Special Counsel’s investigation. “These developments suggest that the Special Counsel’s investigation is likely reaching corners of the President’s conduct which the latter would just as well leave uninvestigated. Moreover, it suggests that the President feels increasingly threatened by what the Special Counsel has uncovered or may do so in the future. These developments increase the likelihood that the President may do something to imperil the Special Counsel’s investigation. “Indeed, the work done by the Special Counsel is critical to Americans’ confidence in our election systems, to ensure that the interference by another hostile, foreign adversary does not again occur, and so that those nefariously involved in the 2016 election are brought to justice. I have long been concerned with ensuring the special counsel is permitted to continue his investigation. This is why over a year ago, I introduced H.R. 3654, the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, which garnered the support of over 150 members of Congress. I am also proud that substantial portions of H.R. 3654 were incorporated into H.R. 5476, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, which I introduced alongside Rep. Jerry Nadler, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, and Rep. Steve Cohen, the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution. If enacted into law, H.R. 5476 would permit an affected Special Counsel to require judicial ratification of any termination, during the pendency of which the investigation would be stayed, and immune from any interference from the President, or others. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.28.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 28, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Condemns Trump Administration’s Irresponsible Decision to Put Children in Jeopardy of being Abused and Neglected by Waiving Screening Procedures for Personnel Supervising Minors in Tornillo, Texas and Calls for Congressional Investigations Jackson Lee—“This malfeasance is yet another example of the shocking mismanagement, cruelty and indifference that this president and his administration have shown towards immigrants and refugees. This shameful conduct makes our country a global pariah, and makes a mockery of America’s promise to be the last best hope of the world.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations issued this statement following reports that children separated at the border were supervised by personnel whose background screening was waived by the Trump Administration: “From the moment he started his campaign for president, Donald Trump has denigrated immigrants. He cast them as rapists, murderers and, animals. Upon taking office, he implemented a Muslim ban, preventing many innocent individuals from entering our borders. Then, as the nation watched in horror, this administration implemented a cruel policy of child separation, whereby children migrating to the United States were separated from the parent or guardian who accompanied them. The country was rightly outraged. Many protested, from one corner of the country to the other, and through the halls of Congress. Despite promises to end the policy permanently, recent reports suggest that the Trump Administration has secretly restarted the effort. “Now comes word that migrant teens who are coming to our country seeking a better life, are being detained at our southern border and housed in tent cities in the Texas desert. Were this not enough, and according to the Associated Press and Pro Publica, the Trump Administration has waived certain security screening protocols to ensure that the health, safety and well-being of the very children these personnel employees did not pose a threat to those they were charged to protect. Specifically, the administration waived the child abuse and neglect screening, placing in jeopardy the safety of thousands of teenagers and imperiling the very individuals the screening procedures were designed to protect. “This malfeasance is yet another example of the shocking mismanagement, cruelty and indifference that this president and his administration have shown towards immigrants and refugees. This shameful conduct makes our country a global pariah, and makes a mockery of America’s promise to be the last best hope of the world.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.28.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 27, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commemorates the Birth of Mickey Leland by Joining Harris County Commissioner Rodney Ellis at the Dedication of the “Moving Monuments” Bus Mural Jackson Lee—“The dedication of this ‘Moving Monuments’ bus, which will be used to serve citizens of Harris County, is but one small way in which we honor this giant, and is a visible tribute to his legacy.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations was joined today by Harris County Commissioner Rodney Ellis, and issued this statement commemorating the birthday of the late Mickey Leland, former United States Congressman for the Eighteenth District of Texas: “Mickey Leland was a giant among men. An effective spokesman for the hungry in the Nation and throughout the world, his presence in soup kitchens and shelters instilled a passion for the poor that drove him throughout his career. During his six terms in Congress, he focused much needed attention on issues of health and hunger and rallied support that resulted in both public and private action. “Mickey Leland began his life of public service as one of the 'people's five'—five minority candidates running for office in the first election following a decision in the Texas state legislature that allowed candidates to be elected as representatives for districts. That same year, he was elected one of the first African American members of the Texas House of Representatives. He later ran and won a seat in the United States House of Representatives, where he represented the citizens of the 18th Congressional District of Texas. “When he came to Congress, Mickey had big shoes to fill, and he wasted no time proving he was worthy of the charge. As a member of House of Representatives, he co-authored legislation as a U.S. Representative that enacted the House Select Committee on Hunger, providing a single focus for hunger issues. Mickey Leland was an American hero who serves as an inspiration to all, particularly those in African American communities. As the successor to the congressional seat held by the estimable and honorable Barbara Jordan, Mickey Leland made clear that he would be continuing the tradition of social engineers-as-representatives of the Eighteenth Congressional District of Texas and that he would be a mainstay in the fight for justice, equality and progress, and that he himself was a trailblazer in Texas politics. “It is fitting that as we commemorate the birth of Mickey Leland, we also dedicate a ‘Moving Monuments’ bus mural in his honor, which will be used to serve citizens of Harris County, and is one small way in which we honor this giant, and which will serve as a visible tribute to his legacy. It is a fitting honor for a public servant who was relentlessly concerned with civic engagement and the franchise. His commitment to fairness and equality is symbolized in the mural that adorns the bus, which bears his image, and bears his prolific quote: ‘I am much a citizen of this world as I am of my country.’ “As we celebrate his birthday, those of us who are honored to be guardians of his legacy know that with Mickey Leland, there is poignancy to his whole life, even in his final moments, for he died as he lived—in service of others. The accident that ended his life occurred as he was traveling to the African continent to feed those who lacked the means and resources to do so. It was this consideration towards those without and those in need that will remain as his enduring legacy. Beyond that, we are left with gratitude for the life that he lived, and our opportunity to live alongside him, during our brief shared time on this Earth. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.27.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 26, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls on Congress to take Protective Action in response to the National Climate Assessment Report of the NOAA, Departments of State, Defense, Commerce, Energy Jackson Lee—“Congress must act now because according to the National Climate Assessment, ‘without substantial and sustained global mitigation and regional adaptation efforts, climate change is expected to cause growing losses to American infrastructure and property and impede the rate of economic growth over this century.’” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations issued this statement following the release of the 2018 National Climate Assessment: “The 2018 National Climate Assessment released over the Thanksgiving Holiday Weekend about the impact of climate change on our society is damming. The report, mandated by an act of Congress, makes clear the myriad ways in which climate change can—and likely will—wreak havoc on our environment and our economy. To be certain, the report serves as a harbinger of more ill certain to follow: the United States faces a perilous outlook as a result of the effects of climate change. The report is notable in two respects: first, it is promulgated by agencies of the Trump Administration. It is not fake news; it is not to be ignored. The report is promulgated by several agencies of the Trump Administration, including: the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration, the Departments of State, Defense, Commerce, to name but a few. This reality is all the more confounding in the face of the president’s mistaken (and repeated) assertions that climate change is not man-made; second, the report prognosticates long term, sustained damage to the American economy, which forecasts a 10 percent decline in the country’s gross domestic product, doubling the loss to our economy suffered during the years that comprised the Great Recession. “As troubling as any part of the report is its conclusion: “That the evidence of human-caused climate change is overwhelming and continues to strengthen, that the impacts of climate change are intensifying across the country, and that climate-related threats to Americans’ physical, social, and economic well-being are rising.” The time is now for the United States to finally join the international community by taking a collective stand to protect our planet from the probable and likely consequences of climate change before it becomes too late, and our planet—our one and only home—is no longer habitable as we know it.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.26.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Glenn Rushing November 21, 2018 (202) 615-7476 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Why Nancy Pelosi Has Earned a Seat at the Table Jackson Lee: “To hit the ground running, House Democrats need at this critical hour its best political strategist, its most talented legislative tactician, its most seasoned and accomplished leader, and its most formidable negotiator at the table representing all of us. The change Americans are clamoring for has come again, in the form of a new Democratic House majority and to ensure that we are poised to make the policy and legislative changes that will improve the lives of all Americans, House Democrats should choose as Speaker the first woman ever to hold that office, the Honorable Nancy D. Pelosi.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement today calling on House Democrats to unify in support of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the House in the 116th Congress: “Starting next January, at the table in the rooms where negotiations take place and decisions are made affecting the fate of our nation, will be seated four men: the President, the Senate Majority Leader, the Senate Democratic Leader, and the House Republican Leader. And certainly women, who comprise more than half the population, deserve a seat at that table. Clearly, Nancy Pelosi has earned the opportunity to fill that seat and to represent all the people of the United States as Speaker of the House. Not just because she is an accomplished legislator and negotiator but because she brings to the table the perspective, understanding, and sensibility of a mother who understands first-hand the challenges women face in raising and educating children, caring for aging parents, dealing with health and medical emergencies, and paying for gas and food on incomes that are on average 79% of what the average man earns. “Decisions about the federal budget, tax code, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, (and other components of the social safety net) are matters of profound importance to all Americans. Additionally, decisions about health policy fundamentally make it easier or harder for ordinary Americans, especially women, to provide brighter futures for their families. And that is why it is so important to have a woman at the table, and especially one who had the vision and foresight to understand and boldly proclaim that “When Women Succeed, America Succeeds” and who traveled the country co-hosting ‘Moms Summits’ with House Democratic women members, like the one she did with me in my district to inform, engage, and support Houston area moms about the pressing challenges facing them and their families. It was a powerful moment and opportunity for the women who participated and they left feeling inspired and empowered. “With Nancy Pelosi at the table, House Democrats give themselves the best chance to deliver on the promises we have made to all Americans to get the job done. With her negotiating skills in that room we are best positioned to succeed in lowering health care costs and prescription drug prices, raising incomes, end corruption, reforming the criminal justice system, preserving the environment, protecting voting rights, reducing gun violence, expanding educational and economic opportunity, passing comprehensive immigration reform, conducting meaningful oversight of the Executive Branch, and restoring the public’s confidence that their government is on their side. “Now is the time to make good on the promises we made. And to do that, to hit the ground running, House Democrats need at this critical hour its best political strategist, its most talented legislative tactician, its most seasoned and accomplished leader, and its most formidable negotiator at the table representing all of us. “Nancy Pelosi has a documented record of delivering for the American people. Because of Nancy Pelosi’s leadership the Affordable Health Care Act is the law of the land. Because Nancy Pelosi was at the helm, Congress passed the American Recovery and Renewal Act that rescued the economy from the deepest recession since the Great Depression and laid the foundation for the ensuing nine years of economic growth and the job creation that continues to this day. “Nancy Pelosi provided the necessary leadership as President Obama and congressional Democrats worked to save the automobile industry from collapse and led the legislative agenda that delivered the GI Bill for the 21st Century and the Dodd-Frank Act that saved the banking system and created a consumer advocacy agency in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to guard the nation against future financial collapses. As Speaker in the 111th Congress, Nancy Pelosi shepherded into law the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and the last increase in the federal minimum wage. She also led the successful fight against the Bush Administration’s attempt to privatize Social Security in 2005, which would have bankrupted millions of seniors and families when they were most vulnerable given the 2008 financial crisis. “When I was first elected to Congress I was a member of the minority party in a House led by an inexperienced and overzealous Speaker who presided over a House that twice shut down the government, slashed investments in education and the environment, and wanted to let Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security ‘wither on the vine.’ So as well as anyone, I understand the desire for change. But change came in the form of a Democratic House majority in 2006 after a successful campaign led by Nancy Pelosi. “The change Americans are clamoring for has come again, in the form of a new Democratic House majority. And to ensure that we make history in substantive and substantial legislative victories that will improve the lives of all Americans, I urge my House Democratic colleagues to choose as Speaker one of the strongest legislative minds in American history – the Honorable Nancy D. Pelosi. As the Honorable Shirley Chisolm, the first woman ever to run for the office of President, instructed there must be a ‘seat at the table’ for all of us.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.26.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Glenn Rushing November 21, 2018 (202) 615-7476 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Why Nancy Pelosi Has Earned a Seat at the Table Jackson Lee: “To hit the ground running, House Democrats need at this critical hour its best political strategist, its most talented legislative tactician, its most seasoned and accomplished leader, and its most formidable negotiator at the table representing all of us. The change Americans are clamoring for has come again, in the form of a new Democratic House majority and to ensure that we are poised to make the policy and legislative changes that will improve the lives of all Americans, House Democrats should choose as Speaker the first woman ever to hold that office, the Honorable Nancy D. Pelosi.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement today calling on House Democrats to unify in support of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the House in the 116th Congress: “Starting next January, at the table in the rooms where negotiations take place and decisions are made affecting the fate of our nation, will be seated four men: the President, the Senate Majority Leader, the Senate Democratic Leader, and the House Republican Leader. And certainly women, who comprise more than half the population, deserve a seat at that table. Clearly, Nancy Pelosi has earned the opportunity to fill that seat and to represent all the people of the United States as Speaker of the House. Not just because she is an accomplished legislator and negotiator but because she brings to the table the perspective, understanding, and sensibility of a mother who understands first-hand the challenges women face in raising and educating children, caring for aging parents, dealing with health and medical emergencies, and paying for gas and food on incomes that are on average 79% of what the average man earns. “Decisions about the federal budget, tax code, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, (and other components of the social safety net) are matters of profound importance to all Americans. Additionally, decisions about health policy fundamentally make it easier or harder for ordinary Americans, especially women, to provide brighter futures for their families. And that is why it is so important to have a woman at the table, and especially one who had the vision and foresight to understand and boldly proclaim that “When Women Succeed, America Succeeds” and who traveled the country co-hosting ‘Moms Summits’ with House Democratic women members, like the one she did with me in my district to inform, engage, and support Houston area moms about the pressing challenges facing them and their families. It was a powerful moment and opportunity for the women who participated and they left feeling inspired and empowered. “With Nancy Pelosi at the table, House Democrats give themselves the best chance to deliver on the promises we have made to all Americans to get the job done. With her negotiating skills in that room we are best positioned to succeed in lowering health care costs and prescription drug prices, raising incomes, end corruption, reforming the criminal justice system, preserving the environment, protecting voting rights, reducing gun violence, expanding educational and economic opportunity, passing comprehensive immigration reform, conducting meaningful oversight of the Executive Branch, and restoring the public’s confidence that their government is on their side. “Now is the time to make good on the promises we made. And to do that, to hit the ground running, House Democrats need at this critical hour its best political strategist, its most talented legislative tactician, its most seasoned and accomplished leader, and its most formidable negotiator at the table representing all of us. “Nancy Pelosi has a documented record of delivering for the American people. Because of Nancy Pelosi’s leadership the Affordable Health Care Act is the law of the land. Because Nancy Pelosi was at the helm, Congress passed the American Recovery and Renewal Act that rescued the economy from the deepest recession since the Great Depression and laid the foundation for the ensuing nine years of economic growth and the job creation that continues to this day. “Nancy Pelosi provided the necessary leadership as President Obama and congressional Democrats worked to save the automobile industry from collapse and led the legislative agenda that delivered the GI Bill for the 21st Century and the Dodd-Frank Act that saved the banking system and created a consumer advocacy agency in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to guard the nation against future financial collapses. As Speaker in the 111th Congress, Nancy Pelosi shepherded into law the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and the last increase in the federal minimum wage. She also led the successful fight against the Bush Administration’s attempt to privatize Social Security in 2005, which would have bankrupted millions of seniors and families when they were most vulnerable given the 2008 financial crisis. “When I was first elected to Congress I was a member of the minority party in a House led by an inexperienced and overzealous Speaker who presided over a House that twice shut down the government, slashed investments in education and the environment, and wanted to let Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security ‘wither on the vine.’ So as well as anyone, I understand the desire for change. But change came in the form of a Democratic House majority in 2006 after a successful campaign led by Nancy Pelosi. “The change Americans are clamoring for has come again, in the form of a new Democratic House majority. And to ensure that we make history in substantive and substantial legislative victories that will improve the lives of all Americans, I urge my House Democratic colleagues to choose as Speaker one of the strongest legislative minds in American history – the Honorable Nancy D. Pelosi. As the Honorable Shirley Chisolm, the first woman ever to run for the office of President, instructed there must be a ‘seat at the table’ for all of us.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.26.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 19, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Celebrates Thanksgiving 2018 Through her Annual Thanksgiving Turkey Giveaway Jackson Lee—“The need is especially acute for our seniors, especially those on fixed incomes or single source incomes, and their families, or families with seniors with health concerns. It is in that spirit that Congresswoman Jackson Lee, as she has for 20 years, renews her annual Thanksgiving Turkey Drive. This annual event helps over 1000 families and individuals realize the holiday by being furnished the centerpiece of the Thanksgiving feast. Let all who will celebrate this Thursday do so with these sentiments, with gratitude for our bounty andunity of voice.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations issued this statement on the occasion of her annual Thanksgiving Turkey Giveaway: “Thanksgiving is a uniquely American holiday that celebrates universal truths: family, fellowship and gratitude. It is also a time to renew our values as a country—that we look out for those in need, that we help when we can and that we believe in a sense of family, neighborhood, and community. “This year marks the 155th anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln’s original Thanksgiving proclamation. As he presided over a civil war that scarred this nation, President Lincoln explained that the bounties which are to be celebrated are the ‘the gracious gifts of the Most High God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins, hath nevertheless remembered mercy. It has seemed to me fit and proper that they should be solemnly, reverently and gratefully acknowledged as with one heart and one voice by the whole American People.’ “While well over a century-and-a-half has passed since those words were uttered, the sentiment of unity and togetherness embodied in the message remains after all these years, and the sense that gratitude towards the divine is paramount is a credo that many of us carry forth in our daily lives. “Our American holiday, of course, would not be what it is without the bounty. But for many families, the promise of a traditional Thanksgiving, replete with a turkey, is beyond reach for many, for differing reasons—some lack the means and some lack the ability, while countless others are still recovering from the devastation of Hurricane Harvey, which pummeled Houston just one year ago. The need is especially acute for our seniors, especially those on fixed incomes or single source incomes, and their families, or families with seniors with health concerns. It is in that spirit that Congresswoman Jackson Lee, as she has for 20 years, renews her annual Thanksgiving Turkey Drive. This annual event helps over 1000 families and individuals realize the holiday by being furnished the centerpiece of the Thanksgiving feast. Let all who will celebrate this Thursday do so with these sentiments, with gratitude for our bounty and unity of voice.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18thCongressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.19.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 19, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following the Report of the Central Intelligence Agency on the Murder of Jamal Khashoggi Jackson Lee—“Members of Congress in both Chambers and on both sides of the aisle must demand accountability about what transpired in the final moments of an American national’s life. Moreover, pursuant to the Magnitsky Act, the Congress must initiate sanctions so that immediate action may be taken to respond to this horrendous crime.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement following a report issued by the C.I.A. indicating that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia directed the murder of U.S. permanent resident Jamal Khashoggi: “The report from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) that the order to murder Jamal Khashoggi, a columnist for the Washington Post and a United States permanent resident, was directed by Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman is troubling for many reasons. Notably, the assessment by the CIA directly contradicts the official statement from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabiathat the murder was not premeditated. Indeed the CIA’s assessment, which is given with high confidence, is based on many pieces of evidence, including review of an audio recording of the killing, examining calls made in the moments after the killing, and examining other pieces of forensic evidence. The CIA’s assessment indicates that Mr. Khashoggi was lured to the Saudi Embassy in Istanbul by the brother of the Crown Prince, and murdered shortly thereafter. “This is a serious, outrageous act. Members of Congress in both chambers and on both sides of the aisle must demand accountability about what transpired in the final moments of an American national’s life. Moreover, pursuant to the MagnitskyAct, the Congress must initiate sanctions so that immediate action may be taken to respond to this horrendous crime.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18thCongressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.19.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 19, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Celebrates Thanksgiving 2018 Through her Annual Thanksgiving Turkey Giveaway Jackson Lee—“This annual event helps over 1000 families and individuals realize the holiday by being furnished the centerpiece of the Thanksgiving feast. Let all who will celebrate this Thursday do so with these sentiments, with gratitude for our bounty and unity of voice.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations issued this statement on the occasion of her annual Thanksgiving Turkey Giveaway: “Thanksgiving is a uniquely American holiday that celebrates universal truths: family, fellowship and gratitude. It is also a time to renew our values as a country—that we look out for those in need, that we help when we can and that we believe in a sense of family, neighborhood, and community. “This year marks the 155th anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln’s original Thanksgiving proclamation. As he presided over a civil war that scarred this nation, President Lincoln explained that the bounties which are to be celebrated are the ‘the gracious gifts of the Most High God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins, hath nevertheless remembered mercy. It has seemed to me fit and proper that they should be solemnly, reverently and gratefully acknowledged as with one heart and one voice by the whole American People.’ “While well over a century-and-a-half has passed since those words were uttered, the sentiment of unity and togetherness embodied in the message remains after all these years, and the sense that gratitude towards the divine is paramount is a credo that many of us carry forth in our daily lives. “Our American holiday, of course, would not be what it is without the bounty. But for many families, the promise of a traditional Thanksgiving, replete with a turkey, is beyond reach for many, for differing reasons—some lack the means and some lack the ability, while countless others are still recovering from the devastation of Hurricane Harvey, which pummeled Houston just one year ago. Which is why the Office of Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is proud, once again, to facilitate its Thanksgiving Turkey Giveaway. This annual event helps over 1000 families and individuals realize the holiday by being furnished the centerpiece of the Thanksgiving feast. Let all who will celebrate this Thursday do so with these sentiments, with gratitude for our bounty and unity of voice.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.14.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 14, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Joins the American Red Cross of Greater Houston and the Wounded Warriors Project to Distribute Blankets to Homeless Veterans Jackson Lee—“In Houston today and this week, temperatures are expected to approach freezing levels, with wind chills expected to venture below that level. This presents a unique public safety hazard to our city’s homeless population, especially veterans, and puts a unique pressure on the shelters and facilities designed to combat and address this situation. In the face of this bitter cold, I am pleased to help ease the burden on Houston and the impact felt by those without ready, regular access to housing and shelter.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement as her office distributes blankets to homeless veterans as temperatures in Houston plummet to at or below freezing levels: “As Autumn turns to winter, Americans throughout our nation are beginning the transition to shorter days and colder weather. While many of us are preparing for the change in seasons with our normal, annual traditions, the drop in temperatures can be dangerous for many individuals, including the young, the elderly, and homeless populations. In Houston today and this week, temperatures are expected to approach freezing levels, with wind chills expected to venture below that level. This presents a unique public safety hazard to our city’s homeless population, especially veterans, and puts a unique pressure on the shelters and facilities designed to combat and address this situation. In the face of this bitter cold, I am pleased to help ease the burden on Houston and the impact felt by those without ready, regular access to housing and shelter. Which is why I am pleased to join American Red Cross of Greater Houston and the Wounded Warriors Project to help distribute blankets to homeless veterans in various locations across downtown Houston, including: Midtown Terrace Suites – 4620 Main Street, Houston, TX; US Route 59 Bridge; Between St. Johns and Pierce Street; Intersection of Richmond Avenue and Wheeler Street; and Houston Convention Center The distribution will begin at the Midtown Terrace Suites at 1pm CST, and proceed to other locations as scheduled and outlined above. For additional information, please contact Edward Howard at (713) 805-2131.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.14.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 13, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement in Support of Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to Serve as the Speaker of the House of Representatives Jackson Lee—“I invite all of my new colleagues to do what they must—investigate and assess—and then look for the best way to unite behind an effective leader. I trust your judgment, but I also believe that your conclusion will be similar to mine: that Nancy Pelosi should lead this House and be the Speaker of the House of Representatives for the 116th Congress.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement in support of Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve as Speaker of the House of Representatives during the 116th Congress: “Now that members of Congress have returned to Washington, D.C., our most important job in the lame duck session, and in the beginning days of January 2019, is to achieve success on behalf of the American people. Our first task in that effort is to select a strong, smart and compassionate leader. I believe that person should be Nancy Pelosi. I invite all of my new colleagues to do what they must—investigate and assess—and then look for the best way to unite behind an effective leader. I trust your judgment, but I also believe that your conclusion will be similar to mine: that Nancy Pelosi should lead this House and be the Speaker of the House of Representatives for the 116th Congress.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.14.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 13, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following Attacks by the President on Three Female, African American Reporters Jackson Lee—“ It came as no surprise that in the aftermath of the 2018 Midterm Elections, in which his party was routed and lost control of the House of Representatives, the President dismissed the pointed questions of three African American reporters—April Ryan, Abby Phillip and Yamiche Alcindor—as dumb, racist or stupid. To be clear, the questions were neither dumb, racist or stupid, but rather too close for comfort for a president who clearly feels the legal, ethical and political walls closing in on him.” Houston, TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released this statement following attacks by the President against three female African American reporters: “Since taking office, the President has treated members of the press differently than did his predecessors. He routinely disparages the Fourth Estate as “fake news,” derides the press as the ‘enemy of the people,’ and routinely singles out individual entities and individuals for persecution. Usually this amounts to nothing more than presidential petulance but sometimes it turns dangerous, as it did in October 2018, when a Trump acolyte mailed over a dozen pipe bombs to critics and opponents of the President, including CNN. “But, the President has typically reserved special and pointed derision for his African American critics, especially African American women members of Congress and members of the press. So it came as no surprise that in the aftermath of the 2018 midterm elections, in which his party was routed and lost control of the House of Representatives, the President dismissed the pointed questions of three great and highly respected African American woman reporters—April Ryan, Abby Phillip and Yamiche Alcindor—as dumb, racist or stupid. To be clear, the questions were neither dumb, racist or stupid, but rather too close for comfort for a president who clearly feels the legal, ethical and political walls closing in on him. The President’s misconduct conduct is consistent with his pattern and practice of routinely disparaging African American criticism—especially from females. The American people see the pattern, and see through it, and know that these flailing attacks say more about the President than it does about these three very able and highly respected female reporters. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.14.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 13, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls on the President to Rescind the Unconstitutional Appointment of Matt Whitaker as Acting Attorney General Jackson Lee: “The President’s unconstitutional appointment of Matt Whitaker also violates 28 U.S.C. §508, which authorizes the Deputy Attorney General to exercise the powers of the Attorney General in the event of a vacancy. Equally important, Matt Whitaker is hopeless compromised and cannot ethically serve as Acting Attorney General because he has already prejudged the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the extent to which that effort was abetted by the Trump presidential campaign.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement in response to the President’s unconstitutional appointment of Matt Whitaker to serve as Acting Attorney General overseeing the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election: “The President’s appointment of Matt Whitaker as the Acting Attorney General is unconstitutional because it violates the Appointments Clause (Art. II, Section 2) of the Constitution, which requires that all ‘principal Officers’ of the United States be appointed subject to the advice and consent of the Senate. There is no dispute that the Attorney General is a principal officer. Matthew Whitaker has not been confirmed by the Senate for any position during the 115th Congress and thus is also statutorily ineligible to serve as Acting Attorney General under the Federal Vacancy Reform Act, 5 U.S. §3345 (“FVRA”). “The Federal Vacancies Reform Act provides that only three classes of people may serve temporarily in an advice and consent position. As a general matter, the first assistant to a position automatically becomes the acting officer. Alternatively, the President may direct either a senior official of that agency or a person serving in any other advice and consent position to serve as the acting officer. Here, the FVRA would designate Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein as the person to fill the vacancy created by the President’s firing of Attorney General Sessions. This also would be consistent with the chain of command of the Department of Justice and with Executive Order 13775, issued by the current President when he took office, and which specifies Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein as second in command at the Department of Justice. “There is no merit to the President’s assertion that his appointment of Matt Whitaker complies with the FVRA because Whitaker was confirmed 14 years ago by a Senate serving in June 2004, during the 108th Congress. The advice and consent of a prior Senate cannot bind the actions or nullify the powers and authority of a future Senate. “For nearly two years the President has publicly fumed over the recusal of Attorney General Sessions from the Russia investigation. In the eyes of the President, recusal was Attorney General Sessions’s only and original sin and the sole reason the President seeks to replace him with Matt Whitaker. But even if the Whitaker appointment was not unconstitutional and unlawful, Matt Whitaker is too ethically compromised to oversee the Special Counsel’s Russia investigation. “On countless occasions, Matt Whitaker has publicly disparaged and prejudged the merits of the Russia investigation and has appeared on television undermining it or pontificating on ways in which it can be impeded and starved of resources. For example, Matt Whitaker has stated that there was no Russian interference in the 2016 election—in stark contrast to the unanimous assessment of the American intelligence community—and he has indicated that the real collusion during the 2016 campaign was actually Russian collusion with the campaign of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. “Taken together, the facts and circumstances surrounding the President’s putative appointment of Matt Whitaker to serve as Acting Attorney General make clear that it is unconstitutional, unlawful, and may reflect poorly on the President on the issue of ‘consciousness of guilt’ regarding the Russia investigation. “I call upon the President to rescind his action and send to the Senate for advice and consent a nominee that can win its confirmation and has the confidence of the American people. Matt Whitaker is not that person.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.14.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 13, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Killing of Jemel Roberson by Police Officers in Midlothian, Illinois Jackson Lee—“The reflexive decision by Midlothian authorities to shoot first and ask questions later is a dynamic all too familiar to African Americans. This dynamic is yet another example of the mistrust that members of the African American community feel when interacting with law enforcement.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, following the shooting death of Jemel Roberson by the Midlothian Police Department: “Over the weekend, in Midlothian, Illinois, just outside of Chicago, Jemel Roberson was doing his job, as an armed security guard, at a bar early Sunday morning when he came upon a disturbance at his place of employment. The disturbance turned dangerous, and individuals opened fire and Roberson returned fire. Before long, Roberson had contained the situation, including one armed individual, and detained the culprit while he waited for law enforcement. Responding officers immediately shot and killed Roberson, mistaking him for the assailant and in the process ignoring calls from eyewitnesses alerting the officers of the deadly mistake they were about to make. “The series of events that led to Roberson’s death by police is tragic. Roberson’s bravery was not recognized; instead, he was a good guy with a gun who was murdered. This reflexive decision by Midlothian authorities to shoot first and ask questions later is a dynamic all too familiar to African Americans. This dynamic is yet another example of the mistrust that members of the African American community feel when interacting with law enforcement. I am pleased to learn that the matter has been referred to the State Police Public Integrity Task Force and I look forward to learning the results of this investigation, to learn how this happened and how it may be prevented in the future. In the meanwhile, I hope that Jemel Roberson’s family can, in this moment of grief, find peace and that justice is delivered so that Jemel’s death was not in vain.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.13.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 11, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on Veterans Day 2018 Jackson Lee—“It is our charge to show our care as President Lincoln asked of us over 150 years ago. Let us take the solemnity that Veterans Day 2018 affords to repurpose ourselves to President Lincoln’s charge and do all we can to help these heroes, in recognition of their service to country over self.” Houston, TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released this statement commemorating Veterans Day 2018: “This weekend marks Veterans Day, our annual commemoration and holiday to honor those who wore our uniform in service to our nation. This year’s commemoration is especially auspicious as it marks the centennial since the conclusion of World War I. Since that time, hundreds of thousands of men and women have fought and died for the values our nation holds so dear. “But Americans know that the charge to care for our nation’s veterans predates the Great War. After all, it was Abraham Lincoln, who by then was presiding over a fractured country and who, during his Second Inaugural Address, reminded the country that the time had come to ‘bind the nation’s wounds, and care for him who shall borne the battle, and for his widow and for his orphan.’ “Here in Houston, we are fortunate to have great numbers of veterans among us. Harris County is home to the largest population of veterans living in Texas. It is our shared responsibility and commitment to ensure those who come home return to the lives they paused so they could serve. For those who do not return from service, it is our charge to show our care as President Lincoln asked of us over 150 years ago. Let us take the solemnity that Veterans Day 2018 affords to repurpose ourselves to President Lincoln’s charge and do all we can to help these heroes, in recognition of their service to country over self.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.09.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 8, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Leads Lawmakers, Policy Leaders and Panelists at the 2018 Aspen Institute Cyber Summit Jackson Lee—“As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I am pleased to attend the Aspen Institute to discuss the role of government in creating a policy and framework for our nation which will protect government and civilian computer networks from current and future threats, such as quantum computing, advances in artificial intelligence, and unknown—but likely and anticipated—threats posed by future technological innovations on the horizon.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism Homeland Security and Investigations, following her participation on a leading cybersecurity panel at the 2018 Aspen Institute Cyber Summit in San Francisco: “As technology grows ever more complex, and our daily routines are made easier with advances and conveniences, the opportunity to disrupt this synergy through nefarious activity remains constant and ever-present. “The need to ensure effective cybersecurity is a shared task that the private sector and government must take seriously. Yet, it bears reminding that in order for cybersecurity to be truly effective, like any discipline, it is most effective if it reflects the demographics of the people it strives to serve. That is why I have advocated for further closing the digital divide at the professional hiring level and the apprenticeship level, and closing the skills gap for hiring individuals to work in these spaces. Moreover, I am pleased that my advocacy focuses on addressing the pressing questions about innovations and advancements in this field, and issues that present the greatest risks, and the greatest potential for opportunity. “As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I am pleased to attend the Aspen Institute to discuss the role of government in creating a policy and framework for our nation which will protect government and civilian computer networks by current and future threats, such as quantum computing, advances in artificial intelligence, and unknown—but likely and anticipated—threats posed from future technological innovations on the horizon. Some threats, like quantum computing, have been persistent. Which is why I was pleased to offer—and the House of Representatives adopted—the Jackson Lee Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act on quantum computing and the need to conduct a study on the threats posed by this facet of technology. I am grateful to share these ideas at the Aspen Institute is a welcome opportunity, as the forum has proven itself as a venue for thought leaders and policy makers in the cybersecurity space.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.08.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 8, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following the Mass Shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks Jackson Lee—“If we are to tackle this problem, we must be clear-eyed about the cause, and harbor the resolve to forge a solution. Congress and leaders throughout Statehouses all over the country must tackle this scourge and stem the tide of gun violence. If we do not, we are destined to be little more than helpless bystanders, and our citizens will continue to suffer and die.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, following the mass shooting at a bar outside of Southern California, killing twelve people: “Last night, an armed and deranged individual walked into the Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks, California, and opened fire. Twelve people were killed, including a 29-year veteran of the Ventura County Sheriff’s Department who was on the eve of retirement. The location of the shooting is especially tragic as initial reports suggest that the venue targeted by the gunman was a place for survivors of last year’s Las Vegas shooting—which killed 58 people—to gather and reflect in fellowship and support, following the horror of that night. I am grateful to all first-responders for their quick work in containing this tragedy, including their valiance in limiting the loss of life. “As has now almost become perfunctory, a community will begin the process of mourning those lost, and burying those who perished. Then, before long, the country will return to life as normal, forgetting what transpired just outside of Los Angeles last night. Beyond the horror of last night, Americans from across the nation and from all walks of life must consider that this is the 307th mass shooting event of the calendar year. It comes less than two weeks after a gunman fueled by hate entered the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh and killed 11 parishioners in what constituted the largest hate crime against Jews in the history of the United States. “Americans are not more mentally-ill than citizens from other countries; we are not independently more prone to gun violence more than citizens from other countries, nor are the movies we watch and the music to which we listen more violent than other comparable societies or countries. The common thread through all of these shootings is the ready, easy access to firearms, ammunition and weapons of war. If we are to tackle this problem, we must be clear-eyed about the cause and harbor the resolve to forge a solution. Congress and leaders throughout Statehouses all over the country must tackle this scourge and stem the tide of gun violence in the country. If we do not, we are destined to be little more than helpless bystanders, and our citizens will continue to suffer and die.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.08.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 7, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Press Conference by President Donald J. Trump Following GOP Losses in the 2018 Midterm Elections Jackson Lee—“And with regard to one of our most sacred amendments—the First Amendment to the United States Constitution—the president: went on a tirade of abuse to members of the media who asked pointed questions; lobbed ad hominem attacks at the media; denigrated reporters and at times, when the questions appeared too intense for his liking, the president postured as if he intended to walk away from the podium or possibly call security to remove some from the room. While it did not happen, appearances certainly seemed to suggest that it might.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, following the press conference this morning by the President on the results of the 2018 Midterm Elections, where Democrats made wide gains and captured control of the House of Representatives: “This morning, many of us awakened with the appreciation for yesterday’s peaceful, democratically held elections that took place across our nation, as is the American tradition. In the course of these spirited contests, some individuals that Democrats supported won, and some individuals that Democrats supported did not win. That is the American way and that is the process of democracy that is built on our Constitution. “Therefore, when the president took to the podium this morning for one of his infrequent press conferences, many watching welcomed the president speaking to the nation, thinking that he would provide the nation with a healing message and would want to bring us together, after these very controversial midterm elections. However, what we were bombarded with was an unending series of words about how the president single-handedly won the election on behalf of all candidates, all in the name of self-promotion and self-interest, and his attempting to leave the American people with the impression and the belief that nothing positive occurred in the election without the president’s explicit support or denunciation of a particular candidate or cause. This very stance undermines the hard work and diligent campaigning done by many candidates, Republicans and Democrats, across the country—many of them women, many of them running for the first time—who took ownership of their own races. It is sad that none of the victories from last night were credited to these candidates, Republican or Democrat, and every success was seemingly attributed to him—and him only. He made no attempt to speak about a bipartisan agenda going forward to help the American people. “Some of the president’s comments centered around demonizing Democrats who won and embarrassing Republicans publicly and by name, who chose not to campaign with him and lost their contests yesterday evening. It is shameful that this is what the American Presidency has come to. “And with regard to one of our most sacred amendments—the First Amendment of the United States Constitution—the president: went on a tirade of abuse to members of the media who asked pointed questions; lobbed ad hominem attacks at the media; denigrated reporters—including two African American women—and at times, when the questions appeared too intense for his liking, the president postured as if he intended to walk away from the podium or possibly call security to remove some from the room. While it did not happen, appearances certainly seemed to suggest it might happen. “I have a simple question: when can we get a president who leads, that listens and extends an olive branch so that we may heal this nation and begin to reflect on the wonder of our values on which this country was built, and show the world that we are a resilient and strong democracy able to face differences and disagreements and yet remain ready to work on behalf of all of the people of the United States of America.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.08.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 7, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement following the Termination of Attorney General Jeff Sessions Jackson Lee—“The President’s actions today in firing Attorney General Jeff Sessions and appointing General Sessions’s Chief of Staff, Matthew Whitaker, poses a potential constitutional question of the eligibility of Mr. Whitaker, and potentially moves the nation towards a series of constitutional crises. This Congress, as it returns to Washington, must immediately seek to protect the Mueller investigation and pursue the eligibility of Mr. Whitaker to be the interim Attorney General. Secondarily, we must ensure the appropriate person next in line to lead the Department of Justice is the Deputy Attorney General, Rod Rosenstein. Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, following the President’s termination of Jeff Sessions as Attorney General: “Today, the President announced the ‘resignation’ of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and named as an interim replacement Matthew Whitaker, General Sessions’s Chief of Staff. To be sure, this is no ordinary personnel announcement. To be clear, the Attorney General was fired by the President of the United States after many, many months of threatening to do so, and did so in order to impede the Special Counsel’s investigation. General Sessions was forced to recuse himself from the investigation into Russian interference into the 2016 election, whether associates of the Trump campaign aided or abetted that endeavor, and whether the now-President engaged in any criminal activity in attempting to end the investigation. The public does not know much about Mr. Whitaker, except that he is on record arguing for a limited scope of the Special Counsel’s investigation, and is opposed to the Special Counsel’s investigation. It is clear that Mr. Whitaker is not the right person for this critically important position. “The American people deserve answers as to the circumstances surrounding the termination of Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Why did this occur and why did it occur now? Who is supervising the Justice Department’s investigation into Russia’s interference into the 2016 election? The American people demand and deserve answers. Additionally, when Congress returns to Washington, it must pass H.R. 5476, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, which protects the Special Counsel by authorizing a terminated Special Counsel to challenge the action in federal court, during which time any investigation would be stayed. The President’s actions today in firing Attorney General Jeff Sessions and appointing General Sessions’s Chief of Staff, Matthew Whitaker, poses a potential constitutional question of the eligibility of Mr. Whitaker, and potentially moves the nation towards a series of constitutional crises. This Congress, as it returns to Washington, must immediately seek to protect the Mueller investigation and pursue the eligibility of Mr. Whitaker to be the interim Attorney General. Secondarily, we must ensure the appropriate person next in line to lead the Department of Justice is the Deputy Attorney General, Rod Rosenstein. “Finally, whomever the President selects to permanently fill the position of Attorney General must stand ready to oversee the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russia’s attempts to subvert our democratic processes. The House and Senate must act now. I would urge the Senate to conduct a searching inquiry into the fitness of any nominee to ensure that any nominee for Attorney General is fit for the position, maintains fidelity to the rule of law, and protects the Special Counsel’s investigation.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.06.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand November 6, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls on Harris County Officials and the Texas Secretary of State to Address Voting Irregularities and Ensure that All Who Can Vote Do Vote and All in Line to Vote be Permitted to do so Jackson Lee—“There are long lines at polling places throughout Harris County, which are being met with indifference and hostility from some voting officials. This conduct must stop immediately because it sends the message that their vote is not important. This is not consistent with the message that ‘every vote counts.’” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism Homeland Security and Investigations, following reports of difficulties in exercising the right to vote: “Elections are a time for the country’s elected officials to hear from their constituents to ensure they serve with the consent of the governed. This year’s contest is especially critical, as it is the first nationwide election following the 2016 election and thus provides the first opportunity to pass judgment on this president and the polices he has wrought. Yet, the exercise of the franchise is being met in Houston and throughout Texas with ploys that harken back to a different, yet familiar time. In Harris County, prior to the start of early voting, voter suppression was alive and well, too, but came disguised as good government, when it was anything but. A dubious provision of the Texas Election Code resulted in residents receiving letters notifying them of the cancellations of their registration to vote in Harris County. According to one Houston voter who received a notice indicating her voter registration had been cancelled, ‘this [was] voter suppression at its [worst].’ This is especially true when considering that it had been determined that all 735 voters who received these notices in Harris County were cleared to vote. “This morning, when Election Day dawned on Houston and the whole nation, problems about the franchise lingered. As the most anticipated midterm election in a generation takes place, voters in our state, and specifically residents in Harris County, continue to experience difficulties and irregularities in voting. In Harris County’s precinct 1012, a voter complained of racial profiling and behavior consistent with racial stereotyping. To add insult to injury, the voter was told that she would have a better time understanding voting directions if the official were in “blackface.” In Harris County’s precinct 576, two of three electronic voting machines are believed to be inoperable, exacerbating delays and waits in voting. At the Bayland Community Center in Houston, long lines test the patience of scores of voters waiting to cast their ballot. This conduct must stop immediately because it sends the message that their vote is not important. This is not consistent with the message that “every vote counts.” “By just before Noon today, a national hotline has fielded 10,000 calls from across the nation, including: polling sites which did not open on time, inoperable machines, and very long wait times. These complaints came from many states in different regions of the country, including states with hotly contested gubernatorial contests, like Georgia. In the Peach State, there have been widespread reports of “voting machines going down in large numbers throughout the state. Undoubtedly, the issues surrounding facilitating ready access to the polls has been undermined by the Supreme Court’s decision five years ago in Shelby County v. Holder, 570 U.S. ___ (2013), which neutered the preclearance provisions of the Voting Rights Act, and after which voter suppression has been rampant. It has taken many forms, from curtailing early voting to limiting the forms of acceptable voter IDs to purging voters from the voting rolls. Voter suppression is real; it is powerful; it is rampant. It is intended to deprive communities of color, especially African Americans and Hispanics, of their right to vote. “When it gutted the Voting Rights Act, the Supreme Court gave assurances that despite its ruling, there would remain legal provisions to safeguard the voting rights of minority voters. The practical effect of the Shelby decision has been to countenance states and other jurisdictions throughout the country by passing legislation designed to make it decidedly more difficult for communities of color and young people to cast ballots. Another recent voting rights case also adds to the concern about voter suppression. In Abbot v Perez, 581 U.S. ___ (2018), in a case decided exactly five years after Shelby and that concerned the manner in which the state of Texas draws its legislative districts, the Supreme Court hollowed its assurance from Shelby. In Abbott, the Court indicated that challengers to drawn districts had not sufficiently proven racial discrimination, despite the fact that at least three courts had ruled these districts, substantially similar to those upheld in June, were discriminatory. In this respect, Justice Sonia Sotomayor’s dissent that Abbot did “great damage to [the] right of equal opportunity. Not because it denies the existence of that right, but because it refuses its protection” is especially relevant. As my colleague civil rights icon John Lewis has said: ‘the vote is precious. It is almost sacred. It’s the most powerful non-violent tool we have in a democratic society and we’ve got to use it.’ “The consent of the governed is an essential component of civil society. Yet even in our great nation—the oldest democracy the world has ever known—we struggle to live up to this ideal. This dynamic is yet another reason why it is important for voters to have unfettered right to choose representatives who will safeguard our democracy, and ensure that all who are eligible to vote can exercise their rights. This includes reauthorizing Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act to ensure that attempts to impede the right to vote in areas all too familiar with discrimination are circumscribed by federal legislation designed to ensure that the changes are not driven by animus or that they do not result in undue suppression. In the meanwhile, all who can vote and are trying to vote, should be permitted to do so and state and local officials should, if circumstances warrant, extend voting hours to ensure that the voice of all the people is heard.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.05.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand November 1, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Denounces Publication of a Xenophobic and Divisive Video by Trump and the GOP Jackson Lee—“While Trump is out and about trafficking in these xenophobic tropes, Democrats are offering A Better Deal, For The People. This includes controlling the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs, increasing wages and investing in prosperity for all here at home, and rooting out corruption to ensure that Washington works for the people.” Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Securityand Budget, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released this statement: “As the most anticipated Midterms elections in recent memory concludes, instead of talking about his record, the President is running from his. He is politicizing the military, trampling over the free press, and abusing the rights and privileges of his office. Over the course of the last many weeks, as he as realized that the American people see the GOP Tax Scam for what it is, he has chosen to aggravate social issues, most notably immigration. His latest trope has been the release of an ugly video depicting a man of Hispanic descent, convicted of killing two police officers four years ago, in Sacramento, California, vowing to kill more in the future. As the video progresses, it professes to blame Democrats for permitting the man entry to the United States, and closed with a warning that if next week’s elections tilted towards the Democrats, more incidents like this are likely sure to follow as a consequence. “Forgetting for a moment that the individual depicted was granted re-entry to the country under the last Republican president, the video is xenophobic and summons the most sinister elements of humanity. The irony of all of this is that while it demeans the office of the President, it is not atypical behavior for Trump. While Trump is out and about trafficking in these xenophobic tropes, Democrats are offering A Better Deal, for the people. This includes ensuring controlling the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs, increasing wages and investing in prosperity for all, and rooting out corruption to ensure Washington works for the people." ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.05.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand November 1, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following Plans to Deploy 15,000 Troops to the Southern Border Jackson Lee: “What is known is that this represents yet another example of the President’s see-if-it-sticks strategy, where he begins each day in the waning days of this midterm election by propagating a hateful or unconstitutional or untenable policy—regardless of effectiveness or practicality—designed solely to distract voters from a nearly two-year record of ineptitude, corruption and ineffective leadership. Democrats are offering a better deal, For the People, which puts people first.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following comments by the President that he may deploy military troops to the southern border: “Over the course of the past many days and weeks, the president has ratcheted up the rhetoric about the state of our readiness at the Southern border. He has flailed about a caravan of migrants from Central America which, by most accounts, are a thousand miles away and at least many months away from our borders. He has pledged to deploy troops to guard the border—the numbers have increased from 2,000 to 5,200 to 15,000 troops. This is without specification as to mission or cost. This move is in addition to a pledge to build tent cities to house migrants while their claims for asylum are pending. “This posture represents yet another diversion to the absurd, with the President misusing his powers as Commander in Chief in order to effectuate his political ends. Moreover, it is not entirely clear what the deployment of these troops--in numbers so large that they resemble a unit in a theater of war—can accomplish within the bounds of existing federal strictures, like posse comitatus. “What is known is that this represents yet another example of the President’s see-if-it-sticks strategy, where he begins each day in the waning days of this midterm election by propagating a hateful or unconstitutional or untenable policy—regardless of effectiveness or practicality—designed solely to distract voters from a nearly two-year record of ineptitude, corruption and ineffective leadership. Democrats are offering a better deal, For the People, which put the people first. It means lowering health care costs and prescription drug prices; it means increases in pay through strong economic growth by rebuilding America; and, it means rooting out corruption and ensuring that Washington works for the people.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.01.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 31, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Denounces the Killings of Two African Americans outside a Grocery Store in Suburban Louisville, Kentucky Jackson Lee: “Together with the mailing of improvised explosive devices and the mass shooting at a synagogue in western Pennsylvania, the murders of these two African Americans represents the latest breach of the social order—and it is a breach driven by hate. The occurrence of these events is no coincidence. For the past many weeks, the president has been stoking his most fervent supporters; declared himself a nationalist; and has continued in his attempt to dismiss the news media as the ‘enemy of the people.’ The president has also called the man poised to become the first African American governor of Florida a ‘thief’—the latest in a lifetime’s worth of racial dogwhistles.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following the murders of two African Americans outside a grocery store in Louisville, Kentucky: “During the cacophony of the President’s attempts to explain away his increasingly hateful rhetoric; while the country reeled from the reality that one of the president’s supporters had mailed over a dozen pipe bombs to critics and opponents of the president; and, while a deranged gunman invoked hate before killing 11 parishioners at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, an all too familiar scene was playing out in a suburb of Louisville, Kentucky. “Last Wednesday in that city, a man fatally shot Maurice E. Stallard, inside a supermarket, and then killed Vickie Lee Jones, in the parking lot outside. Both were grandparents. There was no provocation to the killings. The suspect was apprehended. He is white, and his two victims were African American. He had no connection to either victim, or the supermarket where he committed his murders. Reports indicate that prior to the shootings, the suspect attempted but failed to enter a nearby black church. “Together with the mailing of improvised explosive devises and the mass shooting at a synagogue in western Pennsylvania, this incident represents the latest breach of the social order—and it is a breach driven by hate. The occurrence of these events is no coincidence. For the past many weeks, the president has been stoking his most fervent supporters; declared himself a nationalist; and has continued in his attempt to dismiss the news media as the ‘enemy of the people.’ The president has also called the man poised to become the first African American governor of Florida a ‘thief,’ but that is simply the latest in a lifetime’s worth of racial dogwhistles. In the coming days, I look forward to a complete investigation by law enforcement, including whether this conduct constitutes a federal hate crime. While we search for answers to this horrific tragedy, we must act affirmatively and urgently to root out and eradicate bigotry, hate and intolerance. “The American people are watching and they are primed to choose a better deal, for the People. Not only do the American people expect lower health care costs, prescription drug costs and an economy that works for them, they expect a Congress that reflects the decency of the American People, and they expect oversight when that decency falls short. Americans are ready for new leadership.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.31.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 31, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following Claims that Birthright Citizenship may be Revoked by Executive Order Jackson Lee: “Truth be told, this is just another attempt to scare the electorate, with no basis in the Constitution, and to distract the country from the xenophobia and intolerance that has defined the first two years of the Trump Presidency.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following comments by the President that he may revoke birthright citizenship through Executive Order: “As the months turn into weeks, and the weeks turn into days before one of the most anticipated midterm elections in recent memory, the President of the United States has turned to demonizing and hate. His most recent venture has been proclaiming—without legal authority, knowledge, sense of history, or likely a working understanding of the United States Constitution—that through Executive Order, he can reverse the dictates of the Fourteenth Amendment. “To be certain, the Fourteenth Amendment is clear: “All persons born in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the States where they reside.” Any attempt to vitiate by Executive Order that which was done through a constitutional amendment, following a bloody civil war, is so absurd, that the Speaker of the House, a member of the President’s party, felt compelled to emerge from a cocoon of complicity, to repudiate the President. “Truth be told, this is just another attempt to scare the electorate, with no basis in the Constitution, and to distract the country from the xenophobia and intolerance that has defined the first two years of the Trump Presidency. Democrats are offering a better deal, For the People, which put the people first. It means lowering health care costs and prescription drug prices; it means increases in pay through strong economic growth by rebuilding America; and, it means rooting out corruption and ensuring that Washington works for the people.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.29.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 27, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Mass Shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh Jackson Lee—“While we search for answers to this horrific tragedy, we must act affirmatively and urgently to root out and eradicate bigotry, hate and intolerance.” Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and Budget, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released this statement following a mass-shooting event at a synagogue in Pittsburgh: “Once more, the country is reverberating after yet another mass shooting event. Once more, a madman filled with hate violated the sanctity of a house of worship. Today, at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, an assailant wielding many firearms, including an AR-15 style rifle, interrupted religious services and ceremonies; one report indicates that he yelled, ‘all Jews must die’ before opening fire. While a suspect has been arrested, at least 8 people have been killed, and many more have been injured, including members of law enforcement. I am thinking of them in this very difficult time. “In the coming days, I look forward to a complete investigation by law enforcement, including whether this conduct constitutes a federal hate crime. But as we process yet another scene of mass murder facilitated by firearms, we know that our thoughts and prayers are simply not enough. We must ask ourselves why the plague of mass shootings occurs with shocking frequency within our borders, but not in other industrialized nations, and why we are seemingly ill-equipped to confront and control this ill. We must ask ourselves how society allowed or enabled this man to take license with so much hate and unleash it on parishioners as he did. While we search for answers to this horrific tragedy, we must act affirmatively and urgently to root out and eradicate bigotry, hate and intolerance.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.29.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 25, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Death Of Mr. Ovide Duncantell Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Securityand Budget, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released this statement on the death of Mr. Ovide Duncantell: “Mr. Ovide Duncantell was a personal friend to me, a mentor, and a giant in the City of Houston and in the civil rights community. He had a can-do spirit and was a fighter for justice. When many said “no,” he said “yes.” He built great institutions including the MLK Memorial at McGregor Park and the annual Martin Luther King, Jr., parade.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.26.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 26, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following the Arrest of a Trump Acolyte as the Primary Suspect in a Series of Attempting Bombings Targeting Critics and Opponents of the Trump Administration Jackson Lee: “I am thankful to all law enforcement—federal state and local—for their tireless work in swiftly investigating and containing this string of attempted bombing murders and for the arrest of a suspect responsible for these heinous crimes, and for doing so without injury to any person.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following the arrest of a Trump acolyte as a primary suspect in a series of attempted bombing murders targeting critics and opponents of the Trump Administration: “Donald Trump launched his candidacy with a racial attack on Mexicans and Hispanics, and launched his presidency by instituting a ban on Muslims. Running through both have been invectives at various media outlets that threatened to expose his mendacity, corruption and his indifference towards humanity. Trump has decried the media as ‘fake news’ and the ‘enemy of the people,’ insulted former career public servants, complimented an elected member of congress who body-slammed a reporter, advised police officers to ‘rough-up’ arrestees, and incited his supporters to resort to violence, promising to pay legal bills and fees in the event they were arrested. It was only a matter of time before someone took Trump at his word, and used or attempted violence to further the President’s agenda and goals. “Over the course of one week, Cesar Sayoc, a registered Republican with a lengthy criminal record and a fervent supporter of this president, wreaked havoc on the country by attempting bombings targeted at over a dozen individuals and entities, all of whom have a common thread: political opponents and critics of this President. Sayoc was arrested today. Over the course of a week, this man tried to murder: former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama; former Secretary of State and 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and former President Bill Clinton; former Vice President Joe Biden; former Attorney General Eric Holder; United States Senators Kamala Harris and Cory Booker; Congresswoman Maxine Waters; former Director of National Intelligence, and frequent Trump critic, James Clapper; former CIA Director John Brennan; and private citizens, and Trump critics Tom Steyer, George Soros and Robert DeNiro. I am thankful to all law enforcement—federal, state and local—for their tireless work in swiftly investigating and containing this string of attempted bombings and for the arrest of a suspect in these heinous crimes, especially without infliction of injury to any person. The suspect was apprehended and his van, adorned with stickers of the President’s opponents with crosshairs placed over prominent former officials like Secretary Clinton, was soon seized by law enforcement: “I encourage the President to take a moment and reflect on how his rhetoric is exacerbating the polarization and passions in the body politic. In contrast to the claims of “lock her up” that permeate the president’s rallies, I now await our criminal justice system to provide due process to Sayoc—a repeat criminal offender—and dispense the full measure of justice.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.25.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 24, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Condemns the Attempted Bombing of the homes of Former President Obama, Former Secretary Clinton CNN, and other Former high Ranking Officials Who Have Opposed the President’s Policies Jackson Lee—“In America, we solve our differences at the ballot box. We cannot tolerate and must strictly condemn any attempt to inject violence of an kind into the political sphere.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released thxe following statement on the recent interception of packages, considered to be potential explosive devices, sent to the homes of Bill & Hillary Clinton and Barack & Michelle Obama, and to other current and former public officials: “As the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security & Investigations and a Senior Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I am monitoring and also deeply concerned by recent attempts to send potential explosive devices to various individuals and entities, including the homes of former President Bill Clinton & former Secretary Hillary Clinton, former President Barack & Michelle Obama, and the New York offices and studios of CNN. “There are more places where devices have been sent or found: the office of former Attorney General Eric Holder; a mail sorting facility in Maryland, where authorities intercepted a package addressed to Congresswoman Maxine Walters; there is also police investigative activity at the Florida offices of Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz; and, the San Diego offices of California Senator Kamala Harris were evacuated, following reports of a suspicious package nearby. “I want to thank all law enforcement for their hard work in intercepting these packages and protecting those for whom they were intended, and ensuring this entire ordeal did not turn injurious or deadly. I also want to encourage all to be vigilant about their environment and circumstances and to remember that if they see something, say something. “It is of course no coincidence that the targets of these explosive devices are also frequent rhetorical targets of the President, at his fervent rallies. The President must take a moment and consider whether his rhetoric is a contributing factor in what transpired today. While purportedly a naif to politics, the president must surely be aware of the effect his rhetoric has on some of his supporters. “Beginning with his campaign, the President has condoned and encouraged violence against protestors at his rallies, media covering the event, and offered to pay the legal fees of individuals who assaulted protestors. He dismissed the death of a young counter-protestor, Heather Heyer, who was killed by a white supremacist in Charlottesville, routinely derides the American press as the enemy of the people, and covers up the death of an American journalist by a dictatorship. Through that prism, he is not blameless. “In America, we solve our differences at the ballot box. We cannot tolerate and must strictly condemn any attempt to inject violence of any kind into the political sphere. This is especially true for our nation’s leaders, too, and all must lead by example. I will continue to monitor the situation and ask that all available federal resources that can and need to be deployed be deployed to capture the perpetrator of these heinous crimes, and that the individual(s) face the full measure of justice.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.22.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 22, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Joined by Texas Democrats, Unveils New ‘For The People’ Report on Impact of GOP Agenda on the Health & Economic Security of Texans Jackson Lee: “Americans all across our nation realize that it is time for A Better Deal, and it is time for leadership by Democrats. Democrats are For The People, and are concerned about increasing pay and creating opportunity by rebuilding America, lowering the cost of health care for all Americans, and cleaning up the culture of corruption that has plagued Trump’s Washington.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following a conference call with reporters on the issuance of a new “For the People” report on the impact of the GOP Agenda on the health and economic security of Texans: “In almost two years of unified GOP control in Washington, D.C., the economic and health security of most hard working Americans in our country has diminished, due to the overt actions of the Republicans in Congress, and their leader in the White House. In any number of areas—the GOP Tax Scam, healthcare, wages or infrastructure—Republicans in Congress have fallen short of their campaign rhetoric. With the midterm elections just a fortnight away, with some saying it is the most important midterm elections of their lifetimes if not the life of the republic, it is clear that GOP policies have set back the progress made under the leadership of President Barack Obama. Now, with the first opportunity to provide a check on this president, Democrats are offering A Better Deal For the People. “First and foremost, the GOP’s effort to update our nation’s tax laws has been one large tax scam. In selling Republicans’ tax bill, President Trump claimed it “would likely give the typical American household a $4,000 pay raise.” Yet, when the Republicans in Congress rammed the GOP Tax Scam into law, the damage that passage would bring was known. For example, it was known then that passing this tax bill would result in a situation where the overwhelming percentage of benefits flowed to the richest 1%. Democrats exposed the scam and warned that it would divert resources from critical programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Democrats also warned that the GOP tax scam would explode the deficit and the national debt. Finally, those opposed to the tax scam indicated that the GOP would use the ballooning deficit and debt as pretext to tear apart the country’s social safety net, starting with Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. “Sadly, in practice, those fears have been realized. The benefits of the new tax bill were designed to flow overwhelmingly to big corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent: 1,603,000 Texas taxpayers will see NO tax benefit or will suffer a tax hike by 2019, while the wealthiest 1 percent of Texans received a total of more than $10.1 million. 5,572,400 Texas taxpayers will see NO tax benefit or will suffer a tax hike by 2027. In reality the GOP tax scam for the rich added $2 trillion to the national debt, and included giveaways for large pharmaceutical companies. For example, the tax scam handed Big Pharma massive tax breaks that have funded more than $50 billion in stock buybacks to enrich top investors and executives. “The result has been no different when considering healthcare. When he was campaigning for office, then-candidate Trump lamented passage of the Affordable Care Act—which he derisively called ‘Obamacare.’ Moreover, President Trump promised that under Republican leadership, health care would be “a lot less expensive for you…” and “I’m going to take such good care of women’s health care issues you won’t even believe it.” Yet, he and his Republican cohorts campaigned, for many years over many election cycles, that they would repeal and replace the landmark legislation championed by President Barack Obama. When they were given the levers of power, the Republicans in Congress tried to make good on this process by trying many times to repeal this legislation, and in fact once came within striking distance of doing so. If House Republicans had succeeded in having the American Health Care Act, their House-passed Trumpcare legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act, signed into law: 2,516,300 Texans would have lost coverage under Trumpcare by 2026; more than 1.8 million Texans with Medicaid would have lost coverage; 71,600 veterans in Texas would have lost their Medicaid coverage; out-of-pocket health costs for older Texans could have increased by as much as $6,787 a year by 2020, due to Trumpcare imposing what the AARP calls an “age tax” by allowing insurers to charge people over age 50 five times more; and, the negative economic impact of the American Health Care Act would have caused 62,143 Texans to lose their jobs by 2022. “Not succeeding through legislation which would outright destroy the bill, Republicans have instead focused on a lawsuit to attack the Affordable Care Act. Under Republicans’ lawsuit to strike down the ACA’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions: 11,579,100 Texans with pre-existing conditions could lose key protections; nearly 6.1 million women and girls in Texas with pre-existing conditions would lose protections; more than 534,000 pregnant Texas women risk losing their coverage; and, insurers could deny coverage outright or impose massive surcharges on people with pre-existing conditions, for ailments such as asthma, diabetes, pregnancy, rheumatoid arthritis, and other serious ailments. “The story is no different with respect to wages. In 2016 in Austin, then-candidate Trump told the crowd: “Let me also tell you what you have to gain: more jobs, higher wages…We are going to turn it all around. Success must be created for everyone, and available to everyone.” Yet, the reality has not matched the rhetoric. Since January 2017, real average hourly wages in Texas have fallen 1.4 percent. Inflation has jumped 1.7% in the South from September 2017 to September 2018. As of September 2018, motor fuel costs are up 3.7% from a year prior in the region. Additionally, food prices continue to rise, with the price of a dozen eggs up more than 4% over the past year. Moreover, American workers face new obstacles under Republican control of Washington: as of October 2, 2018, there have been 36,592 WARN notices of plant closings and mass layoffs in Texas since President Trump took office; more than $10.5 billion in state exports are threatened by China’s retaliatory tariffs in Texas, including nearly $1.7 billion in liquefied propane; and, 93% of Texas exporters are small and medium-sized businesses. Left in the wake are American Families and millennials with huge loan burdens, with the outstanding student loan debt balance in Texas totaling more than $94.5 billion; average student debt for students at public and private 4-year institutions in Texas: $26,824; and the share of students at public and private 4-year institutions in Texas with debt: 55%. “And, predictably, the President’s and the Republicans’ reality on wages has matched the indifference they show the American people in other areas and again, the rhetoric and the reality have not matched. President Trump promised Americans “the biggest and boldest infrastructure investment in American history.” At a campaign rally in Dallas in September 2015, he said: “As a real estate guy, the thing I do best is build. Hey, wouldn’t it be good to have the president that knows how to build? Like I’m so good at it. Infrastructures, roads, airports, highways, I could do it for a fraction.” In the nineteen months since he took office, the president and the GOP have refused to make good on the promise to rebuild America’s broken infrastructure. This hurt Texas families, endangers public health and weakens Texas’ ability to compete in the global marketplace. It is not because there is no need: with approximately 313,600 total centerline miles of roadway facilities, Texas has more roadway lane miles than any other state. Driving on roads in need of repair in Texas costs each driver $506 per year; 1,212 dams are considered to be high-hazard potential and 900 bridges are rated structurally deficient; drinking water infrastructure needs in Texas are estimated to be $33.9 billion over the next 20 years; and wastewater infrastructure needs are estimated to be more than $11.8 billion over the next 20 years. Due to this, Texas recently received a C-minus grade from the American Society of Civil Engineers. “Americans all over the country are watching, and realize it is time for A Better deal, and it is time for leadership by Democrats. Democrats are For The People, and are concerned about increasing pay and creating opportunity by rebuilding America, lowering the cost of health care for all Americans, and cleaning up the culture of corruption that has plagued Trump’s Washington.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.19.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 15, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Disappearance of Jamal Khashoogi Jackson Lee: “I call on the United States Congress to conduct a thorough oversight investigation of this matter to determine whether all policies and procedures were employed in order to minimize the risk of harm to this legal permanent resident.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, issued this statement on the disappearance of Jamal Khashoogi: “On October 2, 2018, Jamal Khashoogi, a legal resident of the United States of America and a columnist for the Washington Post, entered the Consulate of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in Istanbul, Turkey, and never reemerged. Within short order, the international consensus, bolstered by intelligence sources, concluded that Mr. Khashoogi, a Saudi National who often criticized the Saudi Regime, was murdered and dismembered inside the Saudi Consulate. “In the two weeks that have elapsed since this incident, the President of the United States has done nothing in response except parrot the cover-up story propagated by the Saudi Monarchy that the Saudis had no involvement in Mr. Khashoogi’s disappearance and likely murder. The President has shown no appreciable interest in the safety of this American legal resident, or what happened to him after he entered the consulate. “This incident represents a stark departure from the bipartisan tradition of protecting citizens and permanent residents of the United States from kidnapping, torture, murder or other harm when traveling abroad. “I call on the United States Congress to conduct a thorough oversight investigation of this matter to determine whether all policies and procedures were employed in order to minimize the risk of harm to this legal permanent resident.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.19.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 18, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Denounces GOP Plans to Cut Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security due to the GOP’s Tax Scam Jackson Lee: “Americans all across our nation realize that it is time for A Better Deal, and it is time for leadership by Democrats. Democrats are For The People, and are concerned about increasing pay and creating opportunity by rebuilding America, lowering the cost of health care for all Americans, and cleaning up the culture of corruption that has plagued Trump’s Washington.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on Republicans’ plan to cut the social safety net due to the GOP’s budget deficits: “When the Republicans in Congress rammed through the GOP Tax Scam into law, the damage that passage would bring was known. For example, it was known then that passing this tax bill would result in a situation where the overwhelming percentage of benefits flowed to the richest 1%. Democrats exposed the scam and warned that it would divert resources from critical programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Democrats also warned that the GOP tax scam would explode the deficit and the national debt. Finally, those opposed to the tax scam indicated that the GOP would use the ballooning deficit and debt as pretext to tear apart the country’s social safety net, starting with Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. “True to form, Republicans in Congress passed their tax scam and the results have been catastrophic but predictable: the tax scam has resulted in massive, unpaid-for-handouts for the richest among us and for corporations that have no compunction about shipping jobs overseas, to the detriment of the American workers. In Trump’s America, enabled by Republicans in Congress, children and working families subsidize tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. “Americans all over the country are watching, and realize it is time for A Better deal, and it is time for leadership by Democrats. Democrats are For The People, and are concerned about increasing pay and creating opportunity by rebuilding America, lowering the cost of health care for all Americans, and cleaning up the culture of corruption that has plagued Trump’s Washington.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.18.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 17, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Recognized by the Human Rights Campaign in the 115th Congress with a 100% Voting Record Score WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the announcement by Human Rights Campaign of her perfect voting record during the 115th Congress: “I am pleased to have earned a 100% rating from the Human Rights Campaign for the 115th Congress. I am proud to stand on the right side of history when it comes to protecting and advancing the rights of the LGBTQ community. No one should be discriminated against because of who they are, or who they love. Today, over three years after the Supreme Court’s landmark marriage equality holding in Obergefell v. Hodges, we must continue this progress and works towards equality, so that all may have their chance to live lives of dignity and happiness, regardless of who they love. As we turn to the 116th Congress, I will continue my advocacy for all persons, including my brothers and sisters in the LGBTQ community, to ensure opportunity for all.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.18.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 17, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Congratulates Four Students from the Eighteenth Congressional District on their Selection as Recipients of Scholarships from the United States Department of State’s National Security Language Initiative for Youth Jackson Lee: “I congratulate Keiddrick Fizer of Chinquapin College Preparatory School, Carlee Marquez of St. John's School, Tiffany Rubalcava of YES Prep North Forest, and Janiece Stelly-Hernandez of Houston Academy for International Studies on their selection for this honor.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, issued this statement: “I am proud that four high school students in the 18th Congressional District of Texas have been selected for highly-competitive scholarships from the United States Department of State’s National Security Language Initiative for Youth. Participants selected for this scholarship live overseas in language immersion programs to acquire skills that are critical to U.S. national security. Participants in the Youth Ambassador Program focus on civic education, community service and leadership development projects during exchanges to central and South American regions. “Funded through the Educational and Cultural Exchanges congressional program, which I am proud to have supported throughout my congressional advocacy, these high school exchange programs annually prepare over 1,000 young Americans to succeed in the 21st century global economy—by developing their foreign language skills, increasing their cross-cultural understanding, strengthening their leadership and fostering new academic insights and ambitions.” “I congratulate Keiddrick Fizer of Chinquapin College Preparatory School, Carlee Marquez of St. John's School, Tiffany Rubalcava of YES Prep North Forest, and Janiece Stelly-Hernandez of Houston Academy for International Studies on their selection for this honor. I also thank the U.S. Department of State for recognizing the excellence of the students of Houston and I am proud to have strongly advocated and supported the authorization legislation that created this grant program and the appropriations bill that made this funding possible.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 12, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Confirmation of Eric Dreiband to serve as Assistant Attorney General of the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division Jackson Lee: “Now that he has been confirmed, Mr. Dreiband can act consistent with his past positions, and maintain an antagonistic relationship to the nation’s civil rights laws. Or, he can use the moment of his confirmation to rise to the occasion, and act as an advocate for the most vulnerable among us. The choice is his.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement following the decision of the United States Senate to confirm Eric Dreiband to serve as Assistant Attorney General of the United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division: “It is unfortunate that the United States Senate has seen it fit to confirm Eric Dreiband as Assistant Attorney General of the United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division. The head of the Civil Rights Division is no ordinary government appointment—it is an advocate for the most vulnerable among us. Yet, the individual confirmed yesterday has a long track record of positions inapposite to the mandate of the Civil Rights Division. Mr. Dreiband has spent the bulk of his career representing those accused of perpetrating discrimination, rather than protecting those who have been discriminated against. Mr. Dreiband has advocated—through congressional testimony and his own commentary—for weaker anti-discrimination protections. Mr. Dreiband testified against what became the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which protects workers from pay discrimination, and has repeatedly argued to narrow the EEOC’s enforcement authority. In other vital areas of civil rights enforcement, including criminal justice, policing reform, voting rights, and hate crimes, he appears to have no relevant experience at all. In short, there is nothing in Mr. Dreiband’s record to suggest that he has the background needed to lead enforcement of the nation’s civil rights laws. “Now that he has been confirmed, Mr. Dreiband can act consistent with his past positions, and maintain an antagonistic relationship to the nation’s civil rights laws. Or, he can use the moment of his confirmation to rise to the occasion, and act as an advocate for the most vulnerable among us. The choice is his.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 12, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls on the Department of Justice to Deploy Election Monitors in Harris, Dallas, and Bexar Counties and Counties in South Texas to Protect Voting Rights and Deter Voter Suppression Jackson Lee—“The consent of the governed is an essential component of civil society. Yet even in our great nation--the oldest democracy the world has ever known--we struggle to live up to this ideal. History speaks to the indignities of slavery and the three-fifths compromise; the ugly legacy of Jim Crow, poll taxes and literacy tests; and the need to be vigilant and safeguard the right to vote in the 21st century. In 2018, we must do better to protect the precious right to vote.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement regarding her letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions requesting that election monitors be deployed in certain Texas counties for the 2018 Midterm Elections: “The need to protect the right to vote is critical, especially in the face of recurring threats to the principle of ‘one man, one vote.’ Whether it concerns plans to disenfranchise up to 53,000 voters in Georgia; concerted efforts to reject Florida’s Amendment 4 which, if passed, would reinstate the vote to over a million formerly incarcerated persons who have repaid their debt to society; or in my home state of Texas, where the specific provisions of Subchapter D of Chapter 16 of the Texas Election Code have been used to cancel voter registrations in Harris County, the threat to voting rights is real and substantial. Disguised as a tool to empower citizens, the ability of residents to challenge the voting registrations of their fellow citizens is being abused and misused. Done in a coordinated manner to undermine the voting rights of certain voters—as was suggested by at least one Houston media outlet—the aggregate effect can undermine the principle of ‘one person, one vote.’ Elsewhere in Texas, the rights of voters who attend Prairie View A&M University, a historically black college, are threatened by overzealous and misguided local officials in Waller County. “The right to vote is among the most sacred rights citizens have and it is among the most virtuous of civic responsibilities. Indeed, the consent of the governed is an essential component of civil society. Yet even in our great nation--the oldest democracy the world has ever known--we struggle to live up to this ideal. This is why I have written to the Attorney General of the United States requesting that election monitors be deployed in Harris, Bexar and Dallas Counties and the following counties in South Texas: Webb, Duval, Jim Wells, Nueces, Kleberg, Zapata, Jim Hogg, Brooks, Kenedy, Starr, Hidalgo, Willacy and Cameron. History speaks to the indignities of slavery and the three-fifths compromise; the ugly legacy of Jim Crow, poll taxes and literacy tests; and the need to be vigilant and safeguard the right to vote in the 21st century. In 2018, we must do better to protect the precious right to vote.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.12.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 12, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Recognized by the American Association of University Women in the 115th Congress with a 100% Voting Record Score WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the announcement by American Association of University Women of her perfect voting record during the 115th Congress: “I am pleased to have earned a 100% rating from the American Association of University Women (“AAUW”) for the 115th Congress. I am a proud to champion the interests of women in higher education and the work done by AAUW, which advocates on behalf of two issues dear to my heart: the cause of women all over the world, and the ability of a higher education to change the fortunes—for the better—of people everywhere, no matter their station in life. I am committed to supporting women and families and working to achieve equity for real. I sincerely appreciate this important recognition by the AAUW of my efforts to ensure real economic security, equal access to education and civil rights for all, especially women and families. As we turn to the 116th Congress, I will continue my advocacy for women, families and educational opportunity for all.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.12.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 12, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Confirmation of Mark Norris to be a Judge in the Western District of Tennessee Jackson Lee—“The Senate’s authority to advise and consent must be exercised in conjunction with constitutional aspirations, the first of which is to create ‘a more perfect union.’ The confirmation of Mr. Norris to the federal bench is an insult to this tradition.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the confirmation of Mark Norris to be a federal district court judge: “It is regrettable that the United States Senate has confirmed Mark Norris to be a district judge on the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee. As a state legislator and Majority Leader of the Tennessee State Senate, Mr. Norris developed an appalling record in opposition to equality. Indeed, he boasts a dubious and infamous record, including: sponsorship of a resolution, the Tennessee Heritage Protection Act, which would prohibit the removal of confederal monuments from public spaces and parks in Tennessee; support of Tennessee’s strict voter ID law in addition to which he advocated for a provision that would have required proof of citizenship in order to vote; and work to undermine Obergefell v. Hodges, the Supreme Court’s landmark civil rights case ensuring marriage equality for all, by pushing for the LGBTQ erasure bill, which would have excluded same-sex couples from legal protections by barring courts from interpreting terms like “husband” or “wife” to mean spouse. “The Senate’s authority to advise and consent must be exercised in conjunction with constitutional aspirations, the first of which is to create ‘a more perfect union.’ The confirmation of Mr. Norris to the federal bench is an insult to this tradition.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.12.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand October 11, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls Upon Department of Justice to Take Action to Prevent ‘Waller County Outrage’ Jackson Lee: “What is happening in Waller County, Texas appears to part of an ongoing campaign of abusing state election law to disenfranchise minority voters, which is why I am calling upon the U.S. Department of Justice to take appropriate action immediately to enjoin elections administration officials for Waller County, Texas from implementing their announced plan to impose additional and unreasonable burdens that on the students of Prairie View A&M University who are and have registered to vote and cast their ballots.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the outrage in Waller County, Texas: “The plan announced by Waller County, Texas election officials to impose additional and unreasonable burdens that on students of Prairie View A&M University (PVAMU), one of the nation’s great Historically Black Colleges and Universities, will have the foreseeable effect of diminishing the rights of PVAMU students, who are already registered to vote, to exercise their franchise and have their votes counted in violation of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the 26th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. “Since PVAMU students reasonably and justifiably relied upon the guidance and instructions provided by the Waller County Elections Administrator, law and equity compel the conclusion that current Waller County Elections officials are estopped from asserting that these PVAMU students are not lawfully registered voters. In addition, requiring PVAMU students to complete and submit a “change of address” or “statement of residency” in order to cast a ballot on Election Day unduly dilutes the voting power of the PVAMU community, a large majority of which is comprised of racial and ethnic minorities. This is because the time and inconvenience of requiring the completion and submission of another governmental form will entail significant delays and diversion of election administration personnel during voting hours, which will inevitably result in longer lines and extended waiting times, all of which may discourage or prevent registered voters from casting ballots. “What is happening in Waller County, Texas appears to part of an ongoing campaign of abusing state election law to disenfranchise minority voters, which is why I am calling upon the U.S. Department of Justice to take appropriate action immediately to enjoin elections administration officials for Waller County, Texas from implementing their announced plan to impose additional and unreasonable burdens that on the students of Prairie View A&M University who are and have registered to vote and cast their ballots.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.12.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 11, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Cost of Living Adjustment for Social Security Benefits for 2019 WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the announcement by the Social Security Administration of a cost of living adjustment for recipients of social security: “I am pleased to learn that the Social Security Act has yielded a cost-of-living-adjustment of 2.8%, beginning December 2018. This increase in funds, while modest, will help seniors navigate the increasing costs of living in a nation led by the GOP in Congress and the current occupant of the White House. While today’s announcement is welcome news for today’s seniors it is not enough. In the 116th Congress, instead of cutting Medicaid and Medicare, as Republicans have sought to do, Congress should strengthen the social safety net to help our seniors, including enacting the Social Security Dividend Act, legislation I will reintroduce, which, in the absence of a cost of living adjustment, would yield a $250 increase in Social Security benefits.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.11.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Glenn Rushing October 11, 2018 (202) 225 – 3816 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE ON THE AFTERMATH OF HURRICANE MICHAEL “Our hearts and prayers go out to the communities and families impacted by Hurricane Michael. This devastating storm was the worst in the history of the Florida Panhandle. I call upon the Trump Administration to act immediately to provide the necessary resources to homeowners and businesses in this region so that they can begin putting their lives back together immediately. Also, Congress needs to act immediately on an emergency supplemental appropriations bill to ensure that the resources to recover from this weather event are on the ground as quickly as possible.” “It is high time that our nation’s utility companies begin to seriously consider the dire need for underground electrical power lines. The benefits to consumers, companies and the country far outweigh the costs associated with these infrastructure investments. Doing so would provide customers the ability to restore their lives much quicker.” # # # Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Budget.
10.11.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 10, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement The Push for Passage of the Violence Against Women Act of 2018: the Urgency of Now Jackson Lee: Domestic violence and violent attacks against women are a continuing threat to the tranquility of this nation. It is time for candidates and incumbents to be asked the question.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the 2018 reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act: “The Violence Against Women Act (“VAWA”) is landmark legislation which—through policy reforms, interstate cooperation and grant allocation—has been pivotal in providing a national response to protecting half of the population. Equally important, it has ushered in a seismic transformation on how society perceives violence against women. The law has enhanced and improved the lives of girls and women, boys and men. “There are many similarities between the year that VAWA initially passed in 1994, and the moment in which we all find ourselves today. When it was first passed, the country was experiencing reverberations to yet another polarizing battle to fill a seat on the Supreme Court. Then the courageous victim sharing her truth was Anita Hill. Today, as VAWA is yet again scheduled to expire, the country is assessing the courage of Dr. Christine BlaseyFord. But despite the passage of over a quarter-century since its first enactment, the malignant treatment received by a courageous person willing to share her story unfortunately endures. The need to create a safe space for victims of violence, especially women, supported with substantial resources to address this scourge has taken on a new urgency in this era of the #MeToo movement. “In the last several weeks the nation has convulsed over the credible allegations of sexual abuse against the man nominated by this president to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Indeed, when the outrage about what was done to Dr. Christine Blasey Ford reached critical mass, the President of the United States characteristically abused his pulpit as leader of the free world to mock her and reveal to all the world why women are so hesitant to report sexual assault. Equally outrageous is the president’s demeaning attitude towards the millions of women and men who were inspired by Dr. Blasey Ford to peaceably assemble and bring their grievances to the attention of their elected representatives. It is absurd to regard Senators who did not wish to hear from their constituents as to the reasons for opposing Brett Kavanaugh as “assault victims,” as did Senate Majority Leader McConnell. On the contrary, the women and men peacefully protesting the Kavanaugh nomination were patriots acting in the finest traditions of protest and resistance. “And for every Anita Hill and Christine Blasey Ford, there are the unknown victims of domestic violence. During October and its occasion to commemorate Domestic Violence Awareness Month, we cannot forget Brittany Smith, who was 23 years old and was gunned down last week here in Houston, by her boyfriend and San Diego-based Marine; nor can we forget Charlene Caldwell, a mother and grandmother beaten to death last week by a baseball bat at the hands of her boyfriend in Houston. Domestic violence was alleged in both of these horrific events. Unfortunately, there are too many stories like Charlene’s or Brittany’s. The stories of these two women remind us of the urgency to protect survivors NOW, before it is too late, because many of these deaths are preventable. “Despite the experiences of Professor Hill, Dr. Ford, Ms. Smith or Ms. Caldwell, all is not for naught. Since VAWA’s codification in 1994, more victims report episodes of domestic violence to the police and the rate of non-fatal intimate partner violence against women has decreased by almost two-thirds. VAWA has also led to a significant increase in the reporting of sexual assault. For example, the percentage of victims of rape and sexual assault who report the assault to the police increased from 28.8% in 1993—the year prior to VAWA’s initial passage—to 50% in 2010. In the first 15 years of VAWA’s validity, rates of serious intimate partner violence declined by 72 percent for women and 64 percent for men. Research suggests that referring a victim to a domestic violence or sexual assault advocate has been linked to an increased willingness to file a police report – survivors with an advocate filed a report with law enforcement 59% of the time, versus 41% for individuals not referred to a victim advocate. This progress cannot be allowed to stop. Congress must continue sending the clear message that violence against women is unacceptable. Prior to VAWA, law enforcement lacked the resources and tools to respond effectively to domestic violence and sexual assault. Each reauthorization of VAWA has improved protections for women and men, while helping to change the culture and reduce the tolerance for these crimes. “The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2018 improves current law in several important respects, and takes a holistic approach to the goal of eliminating the harm faced by victims of violence, and making vital services accessible to victims of this scourge. For example, this iteration of VAWA contains guidance on the use of grants to activate judicial and law enforcement tools to develop and enforce firearm surrender policies; expandspermissible use of grant funding for programs focused on increasing survivor/law enforcement/community safety; and provides legal assistance for dependent children in appropriate circumstances. It also updates programs designed to reduce dating violence, help children exposed to violence and engage men in preventing violence against women. Additionally, the bill improves services for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. It provides policies, protection, and justice for young victims of violence, including extending the Rape Prevention and Education grant program, addressing bullying of young people, improving grants focused on prevention education for students, and expanding relevant training for school-based and campus health centers; and reauthorizes and updates programs designed to reduce dating violence, help children exposed to violence, and engage men in preventing violence. “This bill also recognizes the cascading ills associated with identifying, eliminating and preventing the reemergence of domestic violence. This bill expands grants under the Public Health Service Act to support implementation of training programs to improve the capacity of early childhood programs to address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking among the families they serve; preserves and expands housing protections for survivors; provides economic security assistance for survivors, by reauthorizing the National Resource Center on Workplace Responses; protects employees from being fired because they are survivors of sexual assault or domestic violence; and protects survivors’ eligibility to receive Unemployment Insurance. “Recognizing that many women are victimized at the hands of intimate partners, this iteration of VAWA helps prevent “intimate partner” homicides, by including provisions expanding firearms laws to prohibit persons convicted of dating violence from possessing firearms, prohibiting persons convicted of misdemeanor stalking from possessing firearms, and prohibiting individuals subject to ex parte protective orders from possessing firearms. “Accordingly, the bill helps protect Native American women, by including provisions to improve the response to missing and murdered Native American women, improving tribal access to federal crime information databases, and reaffirming tribal criminal jurisdiction over non-Indian perpetrators of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, stalking, and trafficking for all federally recognized Indian tribes and Alaskan Natives. Additionally, this bill protects the Office on Violence Against Women in the Department of Justice from being de-emphasized, merged, or consolidated into any other DOJ office. VAWA is central to our nation’s effort to fight the epidemic of domestic, sexual dating violence, and stalking. “This work did not happen on its own. It was the product of a collaborative effort of stakeholders, including victim advocates, specifically the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence (NTF), the bipartisan coalition, many of whom are here today. It was the product of those willing to share their stories of the abuse suffered at the hands of those who were entrusted to love, but instead harmed. The courage, strength and resilience displayed by survivors has reminded all that we must continue to foster an environment for victims of violence to come forward and expose episodes of violence against women. This bill represents the good that can come when courageous people with a story to tell come forward with the belief that through their pain, the lives of others can be helped. Having listened to concerned stakeholders from all pockets of the country, we have put pen to paper and produced a bill that is endorsed by the bipartisan National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence (NTF), which is a national collaboration comprising a large and diverse group of 35 national, tribal, state, territorial, and local organizations, advocates, and individuals that focus on the development, passage and implementation of effective public policy to address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Indeed, there is no reason our work on this cannot be bipartisan, as has been the custom of prior Congresses in authorizing this critical piece of legislation. The love for a spouse, the comfort of a mother and the best wishes for a sister know no political allegiance.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.09.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Glenn Rushing October 5, 2018 (202) 225 – 3816 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE ON KAVANAUGH SENATE VOTE “Today, a historic vote will be taken that will impact Americans for generations to come. It will affect the very fabric of our country including people from different backgrounds, different faiths, and certainly different needs. This is a weighty decision for the Senate. Supreme Court nominees should be held to the highest standards because the Supreme Court is the court of last resort. I implore Senators not to take this vote lightly, not to view the vote as a partisan issue, and not to achieve a victory for one party over another, but a victory for the Constitution, the rule of law, and the American people. The investigation by the FBI was done under limitations. They did their job pursuant to the very limited instructions that they were given by the White House. In the normal course, the FBI would have continued the investigation until it was completed. This was not allowed to happen”. So here we are today, and my plea is for prayerful, serious deliberation that does not denigrate Mr. Kavanaugh as a human being, but recognizes that this has to be bigger than any individual and based only upon what is good for the American people and what is necessary for the highest court in the land. Dr. Ford is owed understanding and dignity, and her testimony under oath should count. The Senate, acting in the best interest of the nation, should reject this nomination and demand the President send up a new nominee for the United States Supreme Court # # # Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security
10.09.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand October 5, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Congratulates the Recipients of the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize for their work addressing Sexual Violence as a Weapon of war Jackson Lee: “The decision to recognize these two individuals for this august honor is a recognition that war brings with it carnage and horror, beyond tanks, guns and other weapons. It corrodes society and visits on the most vulnerable the most unspeakable types of crimes.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released this statement on the announcement of the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize: “I congratulate Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murad on their selection as recipients of the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and armed conflict. The decision to recognize these two individuals for this august honor is a recognition that war brings with it carnage and horror, beyond tanks, guns and other weapons. Using rape as a weapon of war exacerbates the corrosion of society and visits the most unspeakable types of crimes on the most vulnerable citizens among us. Let us take a moment to congratulate these laureates, work towards ameliorating these crimes—in and out of a theater of war—and march, unfailing, towards peace on earth, and goodwill towards all men.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.09.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand October 5, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Regarding the Conviction of Former Chicago Police Officer Jason Van Dyke in the Shooting Death of Laquan McDonald Jackson Lee – “The criminal justice system has worked its will in the case of Laquan McDonald’s shooting death, but there are many more cases like this. The sad truth is that there are too many young African American men who are felled at the hands of those entrusted to protect and serve.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Senior Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement following the conviction of Jason Van Dyke for the shooting death of Laquan McDonald: “Today, in a courtroom in Chicago, Illinois, Jason Van Dyke was convicted by a jury of his peers of second-degree murder, for the shooting death of 17-year old Laquan McDonald. He was also convicted of 16 additional counts of aggravated battery, one count for every bullet that entered young Laquan’s body. While today’s verdict will not bring Laquan back to his family and friends, his family can take solace that justice has been meted out. The shooting death of Laquan McDonald galvanized a nation not just because it was the latest in a seeming unending series of shootings of African American men by white police officers, but also because the shooting was caught on a fifteen second dashcam video, thirteen seconds of which showed young Laquan lying on the floor lifeless while he continued to be shot. “The criminal justice system has worked its will in the case of Laquan McDonald’s shooting death, but there are many more cases like this. The sad truth is that there are too many young African American men who are felled at the hands of those entrusted to protect and serve. Regrettably, there are few communities that symbolize the delicate interplay between communities of color and those charged to protect them than Chicago, Illinois. One manner in which this interplay can be addressed is through the passage of federal police accountability legislation, like the Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act which will save lives and help to end the siege of young men of color in communities throughout the country. “The Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act takes a comprehensive approach to addressing the issue of police accountability and building trust between police departments and their communities. Drafted in response to outrages like the 1997 Los Angeles Rampart Division scandal and tragedies such as the 1999 Amadou Diallo shooting (and more recent killings, from Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner and the many in between and since), the legislation provides incentives for local police organizations to voluntarily adopt performance-based standards to ensure that incidents of misconduct will be minimized through appropriate management, training and oversight protocols and that if such incidents do occur, that they will be properly investigated. The legislation also addresses the law enforcement community. I support law enforcement and I am proud that the Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act provides police officers—the vast majority of whom are decent people—with the tools necessary to work with their communities and to enhance their professional growth and education. “As a society we must make our communities safe for all residents. This ideal requires commitments from members of the community and those charged to protect and serve. Once that occurs, we can rebuild trust and ensure that all have an opportunity to live up to their fullest potential.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand October 3, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Demands a Full Investigation of the Department of Homeland Security Following a Report by its Office of Inspector General Detailing Abuses related to the Child Separation Policy Jackson Lee – “The child separation policy perpetrated by this president and his administration was and remains immoral. I urge my colleagues in the United States Capitol to conduct vigorous oversight on this matter to learn of all the ways in which this president’s abhorrent policy was permitted to tear families apart and ensure that it does not replicate itself once more, and in the process again besmirch our nation’s reputation as the last best hope of the world.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Senior Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement following the report released by the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General detailing abuses committed during the administration of the president’s child separation policy: “The report released by the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General on the Trump Administration’s cruel and inhumane child separation policy is troubling, but of no surprise to those of us who visited the southern border many times, and who witnessed the anguish and the horror that this president and his administration were visiting on these mothers and fathers, sons and daughters. “The details of the report are damning. Specifically, it states that: Department of Homeland Security was not prepared to deal with the staggering repercussions of separating children from their parents; there was no computer or automated system to facilitate the reunification of parents after they have been separated; despite a 72-hour limit on the time a child may be separated from their parents, many children were separated for five days, and some as long as a dozen days; the government failed to adequately notify parents of the child separation policy, and the process to initiate reunification; government officials gave inconsistent information to parents arriving at the border, which had the effect of instituting confusion at these ports of entry; and the Secretary of Homeland Security, Kristjen Nielsen signed off on the actions which led to the child separation policy, which is in stark contrast to Secretary Nielsen’s May 15, 2018 testimony to the United States Senate. “The child separation policy perpetrated by this president and his administration was and remains immoral. I urge my colleagues in the United States Capitol to conduct vigorous oversight on this matter to learn of all the ways in which this president’s abhorrent policy was permitted to tear families apart and ensure that it does not replicate itself once more, and in the process again besmirch our nation’s reputation as the last best hope of the world.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand October 2, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Demands that any Vote on whether to Confirm Brett Kavanaugh Occur only After the FBI has Completed a Credible and Thorough Investigation and all Senators have had the Opportunity to Meaningfully Review its Findings Jackson Lee – “There is no need to rush this nomination, and any attempt to do so stands in stark contrast to the unprecedented and damaging delay Senate Republicans instituted in blocking Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s choice to fill the vacancy which occurred during his term. The burden of proving his fitness to serve on the Court is on the nominee; the benefit of the doubt goes to the Supreme Court, our nation, and the Constitution to which all public servants take an oath.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Senior Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement on the supplemental background investigation being conducted by the FBI into credible allegation of sexual assault against Brett Kavanaugh: “It is imperative that any vote on whether to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to a lifetime appointment on the United States Supreme Court occur only after the Federal Bureau of Investigation has completed its investigation of the credible claims of sexual assault lodged against him by many women, and after the members of the United States Senate have had an opportunity to meaningfully review the results of the investigation. Anything which departs from this charge is an abdication of the Senate’s responsibility to advise and consent. “The decision to name an individual to sit on the United States Supreme Court is among the most consequential decisions any president can make, and the task of confirming the nominee is among the most important and solemn responsibilities bestowed upon the Senate. Since Kavanaugh’s nomination, credible and serious allegations of sexual assault have surfaced, accusing the nominee of unspeakable acts against women. Following a collective, national public outcry over these allegations, the Senate convened a hearing to investigate the matter and resolved to have the FBI conduct a supplemental investigation of the nominee. Yet, since the hearing concluded, and after the American people listened to Kavanaugh’s alleged victim and the alleged perpetrator, the integrity of the FBI investigation slated to occur has been called into question by news reports suggesting that the parameters of the inquiry will be curtailed, and certain critical, material witnesses would not be interviewed, including Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the woman who bravely testified against Kavanaugh and identified him as her assailant. Let me be clear: any FBI investigation into the fitness of Brett Kavanaugh and his alleged past bad acts, if it is to be credible, must be thorough and complete. Once complete and submitted to the Senate, all 100 members of the Senate must have an opportunity to meaningfully review and evaluate the FBI’s investigative report before making a final determination regarding the fitness vel non of Brett Kavanaugh to serve on the highest court in the land. “There is no need to rush this nomination, and any attempt to do so stands in stark contrast to the unprecedented and damaging delay Senate Republicans instituted in blocking Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s choice to fill the vacancy which occurred during his term. The burden of proving his fitness to serve on the Court is on the nominee; the benefit of the doubt goes to the Supreme Court, our nation, and the Constitution to which all public servants take an oath.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand October 2, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Congratulates AT&T’s Aspire Initiative and Project Grad Houston on its Two-Year $1,000,000 Grant Jackson Lee – “Project Grad is an important component in achieving student excellence in the Houston. It does this through ensuring on-time graduation of high school students, but also the successful enrollment and matriculation into college certificate and degree programs. Through its recognition of Project GRAD, AT&T is demonstrating its longstanding social corporate responsibility, and doing this by investing in the next generation of Houston’s leaders.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Senior Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement following her successful efforts help secure critical federal grant dollars for Project GRAD Houston: “I am proud to congratulate AT&T on its grant award of a two-year $1,000,000 grant, made possible by federal grant appropriations through my advocacy in the United States House of Representatives, to its Project GRAD Houston and the Aspire Initiative. Project GRAD is an important component in achieving student excellence in the Houston. It does this through ensuring on-time graduation of high school students, but also the successful enrollment and matriculation into college certificate and degree programs. Through its recognition of Project GRAD, AT&T is demonstrating its longstanding social corporate responsibility, and doing this by investing in the next generation of Houston’s leaders. “AT&T’s collaboration with Project GRAD is now in its tenth year and helped thousands and thousands of students achieve high school success. This includes ensuring that Project GRAD works collaboratively with schools and area colleges to reach thousands of students considered at risk. This is vital as studies show that at-risk students are more likely to divert from their goals of high school graduation and post-secondary education. To wit, 85% of students served by Project GRAD Houston are from economically disadvantaged households—75% are Hispanic and 22% are African American. “I am honored to have played a role in securing these funds. As is well known, access to a quality education is the most potent way to break through perceived societal barriers. Indeed, AT&T’s two-year $1,000,000 grant will assist students in underserved areas achieve their fullest potential. I congratulate AT&T, its Aspire Initiative and Project GRAD for its investment in our future and commend those participating to better their lives for pursuing a better future for themselves and the communities in which they will thrive.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand October 2, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Earthquake and Tsunami in Indonesia Jackson Lee – “As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I will continue to monitor the situation. The United States Agency for International Development has already deployed critical resources to the affected area, including teams designed to assist in damage assessment, triaging priorities, and coordinating efforts with local officials on the ground in Palu, and in Jakarta.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on the earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia: “I am heartbroken to learn of the widespread, and continuing loss of life and destruction left in the wake of the devastating Indonesia earthquake and the corresponding tsunami, and send my condolences to all affected by this tragedy. Indeed, the numbers speak to the scale and magnitude of the loss. To date, over a thousand people have lost their lives and many more are displaced. As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I will continue to monitor the situation. The United States Agency for International Development has already deployed critical resources to the affected area, including teams designed to assist in damage assessment, triaging priorities, and coordinating efforts with local officials on the ground in Palu, and in Jakarta. I pray for the souls lost and affected by this tragedy and am certain that as a member of the House of Representatives, the Congress stands ready to help those affected recover, rebuild and reemerge stronger than before then earthquake.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand October 2, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Following the Arrest of Four Individuals for their role in the August 2017 Charlottesville White Supremacist Rally Jackson Lee – “The Justice Department avers that the four individuals charged today traveled from California to Virginia for the purposes of inciting a riot and committing violence during the rally. Prosecutors allege that they inflicted harm on two African American men, a woman, and a man wearing a clerical collar. The matter is now in the hands of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Virginia to prosecute this matter on behalf a nation clearly shaken by what it saw, and on behalf of a nation yearning to heal after that hateful event, and eager to show its better angels.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Senior Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement following the decision by federal prosecutors to file criminal charges against four individuals for their role in the August 2017 Charlottesville “Unite the Right” Rally: “Today’s decision to file criminal charges against certain individuals for their role in the August 2017 Charlottesville, Virginia, white supremacy rally is an important, welcome step in ascertaining a full composite of what occurred in the days leading up to and during this dark chapter in American history. During the chaos and carnage of that midsummer day, many were injured, and one young woman, Heather Heyer, was murdered by a white supremacist who ran her down with his car. While today’s charges do not involve the death of Ms. Heyer, the conduct underlying the charges are deeply troubling. The Justice Department avers that the four individuals charged today traveled from California to Virginia for the purposes of inciting a riot and committing violence. Prosecutors allege that they perpetrated acts of violence against two African American men, a woman, and a man wearing a clerical collar. “The matter is now in the hands of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Virginia to prosecute this matter on behalf a nation clearly shaken by what it saw, and on behalf of a nation yearning to heal after that hateful event, and eager to show its better angels.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 28, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Leads Members of the House of Representatives In Protest of the Senate Judiciary Committee Vote Which Helps Secure Postponement of the Vote on the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh Jackson Lee – “The stakes of this nomination, and the lifetime appointment it carries, are too strong to ignore credible claims of sexual assault. Only after an FBI investigation has been completed, can the American people have confidence that a jurist nominated to the highest court in the land have the fitness and temperament to serve on the United States Supreme Court.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Senior Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement following her successful efforts to help secure a postponement in the Senate Judiciary Committee vote to approve Brett Kavanaugh: “Brett Kavanagh should not be confirmed to the Supreme Court. Not only because he is hostile to women’s rights, unduly obsequious to the President or because, during his confirmation hearings earlier this month, he provided concerning answers to questions which, at the very least, call into question his veracity. It is because since those hearings concluded, a steady stream of accusations of sexual abuse have surfaced, all of which implicate Brett Kavanaugh’s fitness to sit on the Supreme Court. In the face of these serious mounting allegations, the Senate Judiciary Committee heard from Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Kavanaugh’s accuser, and from the nominee himself. The hearing raised many more questions about Kavanaugh’s fitness to sit on the Supreme Court. I am proud to have led members of the House of Representatives, as representatives of the people, to the Senate Judiciary Committee to make our opposition to this nomination known loud and clear, and to help secure a postponement of the committee vote, so that the FBI can conduct a fulsome investigation of these credible, serious allegations. “The stakes of this nomination are too high. Mr. Kavanaugh is credibly accused of serious offenses. Despite this, Republicans in the Senate vowed to “plow through” these concerns. I am pleased that due in part to the advocacy led by my initiative, we were able to postpone a final confirmation vote until the FBI had an opportunity to investigate these very serious allegations, Mr. Kavanaugh’s denials, and the testimony of a critical third party, Mark Judge, whom Dr. Christine Blasey Ford places at the scene of her sexual assault and whom Dr. Ford identifies as one of her alleged assailants, alongside Brett Kavanaugh. “The stakes of this nomination, and the lifetime appointment it carries, are too strong to ignore credible claims of sexual assault. Only after a full FBI investigation has been completed, can the American people have confidence that the jurists who sit on the highest court in the land have the fitness and temperament to serve on the United States Supreme Court.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 27, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Applauds House Passage of H.R. 68 - The Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Reauthorization Act Jackson Lee – “This is an important piece of legislation and the need for it is compelling. Each day an estimated 160,000 students in this country refuse to go to school because they fear being bullied by their peers, and many more attend school in a chronic state of anxiety and depression. In addition, six out of ten American youth witness bullying at least once a day, and nearly 30 percent — or 5.7 million children — are involved in bullying as victims, perpetrators, or both.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on House passage of H.R. 68, the Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Reauthorization Act: “I am pleased that the House of Representatives has passed H.R. 68, the Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Reauthorization and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to swiftly pass this measure. This is an important piece of legislation and the need for it is compelling. Each day an estimated 160,000 students in this country refuse to go to school because they fear being bullied by their peers, and many more attend school in a chronic state of anxiety and depression. In addition, six out of ten American youth witness bullying at least once a day, and nearly 30 percent — or 5.7 million children — are involved in bullying as victims, perpetrators, or both. One out of seven students in Grades K-12 is either a bully or a victim of bullying. The numbers do not stop there: 90% of 4th to 8th Grade Students report being victims of bullying of some type; 56% of students have personally witnessed some type of bullying at school; 71% of students report incidents of bullying as a problem at their school; 87% of youth said shootings are motivated by a desire to "get back at those who have hurt them; and, 86% stated that "other kids picking on them, making fun of them or bullying them" causes teenagers to turn to lethal violence in the schools. “This bill did not occur by itself—it was the product of many efforts to pass, over many Congresses. It was the product of a compromise piece of legislation which also advances the cause of combatting human trafficking. I am appreciative of and thank the Chairman of House Judiciary Committee and our respective staffs for recognizing the virtues of this legislation and working towards passage in the House.” “Specifically, this bill makes positive steps toward reform in juvenile justice. It targets bullying and bullying prevention. This bill reauthorizes the award of grants to consider this problem in the amount of $30 million for one year. Moreover, this bill subjects grants to accountability measures: the Office of Inspector General in the Department of Justice (DOJ) must conduct annual audits of selected grant recipients and the Department of Justice must submit an annual certification to Congress and identify and report on duplicative grant awards. This bill is a fitting memorial to a talented, committed and idealistic young lawyer who cared passionately about fixing a broken criminal justice system so that it is fair for all. Tiffany Joslyn was a warrior for criminal justice reform, and cared much about the vulnerabilities and issues facing communities of color, and where they intersect with the criminal justice system. I applaud House passage of H.R. 68 and urge my colleagues in the Senate to do so.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 28, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Rejects the House GOP’s Tax Scam 2.0 Jackson Lee – “I am proud to have voted against this cash grab for the wealthiest among us. Instead, I am proud to stand for a better deal for the people. Instead of focusing on tax cuts for Americans who don’t need them and did not ask for them, we must instead work to lower health care costs and prescription drug process; increase the pay of all Americans through economic investments for growth by rebuilding America; and cleaning up the corruption that makes efforts like this tax cut possible in the first place.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Senior Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement following her vote against the House GOP’s Tax Scam: “Since the GOP has maintained unified control of the federal government, it has waged an assault on the middle class. It has attempted to deprive millions of its healthcare, rescinded regulations designed to protect the health and safety of middle class Americans, and administered one of the largest tax scams on the middle class—by taking resources from working Americans and depleting the coffers of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, and using that money for tax cuts for the wealthiest among us, and other big moneyed interests. “If the first GOP tax scam were not enough, House Republicans attempted today to make permanent those tax cuts, further codifying these giveaways, and leaving it to future generations to clean up the fiscal mess. I am proud to have voted against this cash grab for the wealthiest among us. Instead, I am proud to stand for a better deal for the people. Instead of focusing on tax cuts for Americans who do not need them and did not ask for them, we must instead work to lower health care costs and prescription drug process; increase the pay of all Americans through economic investments for growth by rebuilding America; and cleaning up the corruption that makes efforts like this tax cut possible in the first place. Americans are watching their elected officials and come November, many who sided with these top 1% interests will face its electoral reckoning because the American people see the Republican efforts for what they are: a GOP tax scam.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 26, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commends Radio One for its Civic Responsibility in Helping Houstonians Return Home After Hurricane Harvey Jackson Lee – “Radio One’s generosity exemplifies the corporate social responsibility all Houstonians would like to see exhibited by all who call Houston home. It symbolizes the silver lining in the clouds of a horrific storm, and the promise that comes with the first sliver of sun breaking through the grey sky.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on Radio One’s Harvey Didn’t Win – Back in a Home Giveaway: “The need for affordable housing has been persistent in the Houston metropolitan area. According to the National Low Income Housing Coalition, Houston’s housing supply is in dire straits: there is only about one affordable rental unit for every five needed. This need was exacerbated last year when one of the costliest and deadliest natural disasters ever to make landfall descended on Houston. Hurricane Harvey is the largest housing disaster to strike the U.S. in our nation’s history. During Hurricane Harvey over 300,000 structures flooded in southeastern Texas, where extreme rainfall hit many areas that are densely-populated. At its peak on September 1, 2017, one-third of Houston, our nation’s fourth largest city, was underwater with 34,575 evacuees in shelters across Texas. “When the storm passed, the true measure of Harvey’s destruction became known. The storm and resulting flooding damaged 203,000 homes, of which 12,700 were destroyed. Once safety from the deluge was certain, a community was galvanized to help its neighbors rebuild and return to their lives. The task to return our neighbors to a sense of normalcy will take many hands, through the myriad of resources. Some will take advantage of critical grant programs, for which I am proud to have advocated. Some, on the other hand, are in greater need and in some instances, have nothing to repair and are in need of new housing altogether. In these instances, neighbors are stepping up to help their neighbors, so that members of the community can put their best foot forward and emerge stronger from the storm. “Which is why the efforts of community leaders like the Radio One Family, which boasts in its portfolio music radio stations many Houstonians enjoy, like Majic 102.1, 92.1 Radio Now and 97.9 The Box, are so critical, and their most recent campaign to bring a measure of restoration to Houston is so important, and affirming. Radio One’s initiative, Harvey Didn’t Win – Back in a Home” giveaway is a testament to change—the will to change destruction to restoration, and the will to take something bad and turn it into good. Indeed, Radio One’s generosity exemplifies the corporate social responsibility all Houstonians would like to see exhibited by all who call Houston home. It symbolizes the silver lining in the clouds of a horrific storm, and the promise that comes with the first sliver of sun breaking through the clouds.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand September 24, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges the President to Refrain From Terminating Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Calls on Congress to Pass H.R .5476 the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act Jackson Lee—“ We also know that this president will do anything to protect those ensnared in this counterintelligence, criminal investigation, as evidenced by his musings from earlier this week, that he declassify certain intelligence information, thereby compromising sources and methods, proffered as a disinfectant against institutional corruption, but in actuality nothing more than an attempt to give his cohorts access to sensitive information likely to aid their criminal defense.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement following news reports that the Deputy Attorney General suggested wearing a wire to record the President as a basis to support invocation of the 25th Amendment: “Following news reports that the Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein suggested—seriously or not—to wear a wire to record the president as a basis to gather evidence to support invocation of the 25th Amendment, as a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee of Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, I strongly urge the President to resist the inclination to terminate the Rod Rosenstein. “As an initial matter, Mr. Rosenstein has explicitly refuted the most sensational allegations of this story. But, as it relates to the President, Americans from all over the country appreciate that any attempt to terminate Mr. Rosenstein as Deputy Attorney General would be seen by Americans from all corners of the country as a thinly veiled attempt to wrestle control of the Special Counsel’s investigation. We know as much because for well over a year, the President has been berating his Attorney General for recusing himself from the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian Interference in the 2016 election and whether and to what extent that effort was aided and abetted by the Trump Campaign. We also know that this president will do anything to protect those ensnared in this counterintelligence, criminal investigation, as evidenced by his musings from earlier this week, that he declassify certain intelligence information, thereby compromising sources and methods, proffered as a disinfectant against institutional corruption, but in actuality nothing more than an attempt to give his cohorts access to sensitive information likely to aid their criminal defense. “Nonetheless, this is an opportunity for my colleagues in the United States Congress, especially my colleagues in the Republican Conference, to embrace this Article I moment, and pass legislation that will protect the special counsel. This is why, together with House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerry Nadler, I introduced H.R. 5476, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act. If enacted, this bill would permit any fired special counsel to challenge the termination in federal court, during the pendency of which the investigation would be stayed.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 21, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Denounces Efforts by the President to Declassify Our Nation’s Intelligence Community and its Sources and Methods Jackson Lee – “That we have come this far merely represents the breach and the depravity this individual brings to the office of the president. No previous president has ever threatened to release these documents, and indeed these actions represent a disrespect by the leader of the free world for the office that gives him that charge.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement following threats by the president to declassify critical secrets which if revealed, would publicize our intelligence community’s sources and methods: “Earlier this week, as the country was processing the most recent Trump campaign associate to either plead guilty or be convicted in a court of law, the current occupant of the White House attempted to gaslight our nation’s intelligence community apparatus by recklessly releasing classified information. As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, I know that such a move impacts our allies, and implicates our country’s intelligence community’s sources and methods. To be sure, beyond sources and methods, the decision to try to compromise the allied international intelligence community certainly rankled our closest allies, and with whom we defend the Western Alliance. Simply put, compromising our intelligence sources and methods only makes our allies more reticent to collaborate on important initiatives like combatting terrorism and ensuring stability throughout the world. This morning, the president succumbed to universal national and international pressure, and thought better than to release these documents, and instead is directing the Office of Inspector General to review the request to declassify this information. But, to those of concerned about the national security apparatus of this country, all are left to wonder why such a decision to declassify was made in the first place. No other president has pursued this reckless objective. To be sure, the president’s attempt to release these documents were perceived as little more than an attempt to declassify information and evidence likely to be beneficial to him and those with whom he has a joint defense agreement, in the face of Special Counsel’s counterintelligence criminal investigation about Russian attempts to subvert our election and whether that effort was aided and abetted by associates of the Trump campaign. To be certain, an individual who is a subject of a criminal investigation—as is this president—should not even have improper or illegal access to information related to the crimes for which he is being investigated. “That we have come this far merely represents the breach and the depravity this individual brings to the office of the president. No previous president has ever threatened to release these documents, and indeed these actions represent a disrespect by the leader of the free world for the office that gives him that charge. I am disturbed by the president’s most recent attempt to meddle with our country’s law enforcement apparatus and our intelligence community. Nothing should be done to impede either the Special Counsel’s investigation or with respect to the delicate art of sharing intelligence with our allies. I encourage my colleagues in the United States Congress—especially my friends in the Republican conference—to be bright-eyed about the long-term institutional damage this individual is doing to the American presidency, and I urge all who constitute Article I of the Constitution to recognize their moment, and perform oversight over a president sorely in need of it” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 21, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Condemns the Dastardly and Inhumane Practice by the Trump Administration and the Department of Homeland Security of Separating Sponsors of Children Separated from their Parents Jackson Lee–“The Trump Administration, DHS and HHS claimed that the separation of these children and their custody in vast, anonymous tent communities under the hot Texas sun, was in the best interest of the children, while sponsors were located. Experience has hollowed that assurance. News that these sponsors are now the target of enforcement efforts is dastardly, inhumane and has no place in our nation.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued this statement following news reports that individuals selected to care for children separated from their parents are, too, being targeted for removal from Immigration and Customs Enforcement: “It is outrageous that Immigration and Customs Enforcement, after implementing this president’s cruel and inhumane child separation policy, is now turning to arresting sponsors of children as another way of effectuating the administration's misguided immigration policy. This is troubling in and of itself, but all the more so when considering the background of these requests. The individuals now in the crosshairs of Trump’s deportation force—adult sponsors trying to accept responsibility for these children when the parents of these children have been separated from their children, and are thus unable to do so—volunteered to take custody for these children so that they may be cared for, after these children were separated from their parents. It is appalling that the current administration would perform an ostensible bait-and-switch, and now target these individuals, the overwhelming majority of whom were charged with simple immigration violations, rather than other, more serious criminal activity. Sacrificed in this push and pull, of course, are innocent children. “This malfeasance is not simply confined to the Department of Homeland Security. The effort to maintain these children in custodial conditions, coupled with a delay in reuniting already detained children with rightful custodians—and concomitant arrests—has led to the custodial detention of approximately 13,000 children, as of yesterday. This is the highest ever number of children ever held captive in the United States, and the numbers continue to rise. Moreover, the federal government is utilizing the enforcement arm of the DHS to further prolong their misery by keeping them in custodial detention because they are threatening and arresting sponsors who are willingly coming forward to take these children, as their families want. It is a merciless, inhumane and devastating policy. “The Trump Administration, DHS and HHS claimed that the separation of these children and their custody in vast, anonymous tent communities under the hot Texas sun was/is in the best interest of the children, while sponsors were located. Experience has hollowed that assurance. News that these sponsors are now the target of enforcement efforts is dastardly, inhumane and has no place in our nation. Americans must and should be appalled.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 21, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commends the award of $8,974,135 in new Federal Assistance for Texas Schools Jackson Lee–“Harvey left over 20,000 school children homeless, and the Houston Independent School District was left with rebuilding many schools, a process which will take many years. This is why the announcement by the United States Department of Education of federal assistance dollars, for which I advocated, is such an important step in the city and the region’s long march to recovery.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement following a grant award to benefit Texas schools damaged after Hurricane Harvey: “When Harvey struck my hometown, my fellow Houstonians awoke to a day that would bring them Hurricane Harvey, a monstrous weather event that twice made landfall and which dropped 30 trillion gallons of water and caused $200 billion dollars of damage. The severity of the damage cannot be overstated. Over 100 people died either directly or indirectly because of collateral consequences due to the storm; thousands needed rescue; tens of thousands of homes were damaged and so many, many more lives were affected. The storm left over 20,000 school children homeless, and the Houston Independent School District was left with rebuilding at least four schools, a process which will take many years. “Which is why the announcement by the United States Department of Education of federal assistance dollars, for which I advocated, is such an important step in the city and region’s long march to recovery. The state of our schools has long been a concern of mine. Across the nation, teachers are being asked to do more with less, and do this in the face of increasing demands on their time and distractions with which they have to contend. Moreover, they do this with paychecks that barely make ends meet. Unfortunately, in Houston, these realities are compounded by serious challenges facing our schools, which of course are exacerbated by the disruption caused by Hurricane Harvey and the departure of key educational personnel. This grant award is an appreciable step towards fixing our schools.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 20, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Participates In ‘Let’s Talk Gun Violence and Public Safety’ Roundtable Hosted by the Houston NAACP Chapter Jackson Lee: “A critical, unavoidable lesson from my time as Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations is that the time for reform of the criminal justice system is long overdue. Reform, however, cannot be de minimis and it cannot be illusory. It must be meaningful, impactful, and sustained to bring the change needed.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on public safety and the imperative of reducing gun violence in America: “For over a century, through its national presence, and later through regional outposts, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has stood at the forefront of the fight for equality and justice. In the 21st century, now over a year removed from the transformative presidency of Barack Obama, the first African American to hold the nation’s highest office, the country again finds itself confronting issues that have an outsized impact on society, like voting rights, gun violence, and other issues acutely facing communities of color. “No issue is more important than who decides our leaders and what policies they set forth for the American people. This is why voting rights remains a vitally important issue, and to illustrate this point, neutral observers need not look any further than Texas Election Code 16.091. In the five years since the Supreme Court gutted the Voting Rights Act in Shelby County v. Holder, voter suppression has been rampant. This has taken many forms, from curtailing early voting to limiting the forms of identification permissible to vote to purging voters from the registration rolls. Voter suppression is real; it is pervasive, and it is targeted against communities of color, especially African Americans and Hispanics. Harris County voters are not immune from voter suppression efforts, which in its most recent manifestation is cloaked in the guise of good government but in reality is anything but. A dubious provision of the Texas Election Code has resulted in hundreds of Harris County residents receiving letters notifying them that voter registration may be subject to cancellation. According to one Houston voter who received a notice indicating her voter registration had been cancelled, ‘this is voter suppression at its [worst].’ This is especially true when considering that it has been determined that all 735 voters who received these notices in Harris County have been cleared to vote. I have voiced my concerns about this provision of Texas Election Code to the Department of Justice, and specifically conveyed the disparate impact the provision of state law is having over communities of color. “Another problem vexing America’s communities is gun violence. This scourge comes in many forms, from the mass shootings that briefly captivate our national attention, only to be overshadowed by the next media obsession, to the seemingly anonymous and daily violence afflicting cities like Chicago and elsewhere. Gun violence long ago became a national epidemic. That is why I have worked to tirelessly to develop and advance real, workable, and effective legislative solutions to stem the tide of gun violence. Among the legislative proposals I have introduced are H.R. 5088, the No More Atrocities with Guns Act, which prohibits persons under the age of 21 from possessing automatic firearms; H.R. 4268, the Safe not Sorry Act, which extends the gun purchase waiting period from 3 to 7 days; and H.R. 57, the Accidental Firearms Transfers Reporting Act, which directs FBI Director to Congress those background checks which were not completed in three days and closes the ‘Charleston loophole, so named because if it were law in 2015, the mass murders at Mother Emmanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina could have been prevented. “A critical, unavoidable lesson from my time as Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations is that the time for reform of the criminal justice system is long overdue. Reform, however, cannot be de minimis and it cannot be illusory. It must be meaningful, impactful, and sustained to bring the change needed. One aspect of this reform is the act of correcting past mistakes. Sentencing reform is vital, which is why I am a champion of the Sentencing Reduction Act, which would provide a measure of compassion and relief from the strictures of mandatory minimums. I know that a critical component to change and reform is also rebuilding trust—between all communities, especially those of color, and law enforcement agencies charged with protecting and serving them. That is why I am a lead sponsor of the Law and Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act, which addresses the need to ensure safeguards and national policies to define, understand, and prevent police misconduct. These are but just two areas in which meaningful legislation could effectuate meaningful change in communities all across the nation. There are several others, which are being highlighted by criminal justice reform advocates across the nation. “Living a life imbued with purpose and dignity is not merely being safe from gun violence or voting irregularities—but these are key. It also means living a life where health and financial security is vital. This means access to lower health care costs and prescription drug prices; it also means increasing pay through strong economic grown by rebuilding America. And, it means cleaning up corruption to make Washington work for all Houstonians, Texans, and Americans.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 20, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Regarding the Mass Shooting at Rite-Aid Distribution Center in Aberdeen, Maryland Jackson Lee: “The shooting at the Rite Aid Distribution Center in Aberdeen, Maryland adds to the long list of mass shootings in this country. To the victims and their families, I offer my condolences and commitment to combating the scourge of gun violence in America.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement on the mass shooting at the Rite Aid Distribution Center in Aberdeen, Maryland: “Today, we witnessed another act of gun violence in this country. From current reports, we know that at least four persons were killed and seven were injured at the mass casualty incident at the Rite Aid Distribution Center in Aberdeen, Maryland. I extend my condolences to their families and loved ones. I pray for the complete recovery of others who were wounded and that everyone affected has the support they need now and in the days and months ahead. I commend the first responders who acted quickly and courageously, apprehending the suspect and getting people to safety. I extend my sympathies to the people of Harford County who are now reeling from this senseless attack. “The easy access of guns has contributed to the 262nd mass shooting that has occurred to date this year in our nation. We need a greater reckoning with the carnage that gun violence causes daily in cities and communities all across our country. This is not normal. This must stop” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.03.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand September 19, 2018 (202) 225 – 3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces $762,601 in Research Grants to the University of Houston Awarded From the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the University of Houston has been awarded $762,601 in grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for their Cancer Centers Support program and their Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism “I am delighted to announce that U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is awarding the University of Houston with this generous grant. This grant will enable the University of Houston to expand its Cancer Center Support program and their Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolism Program. These improved programs will significantly improve Cancer research and drug development in addition to diabetes, endocrinology and metabolism research. “I am a strong supporter of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and several of its research programs, especially the funding opportunities and grants for research programs that will significantly improve medical drug development, research, and treatment. “I thank the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for recognizing the excellence of the University of Houston. I also congratulate the Director of the National Cancer Institute at the University of Houston, Diana Chow, and The Director of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease, Khurana Seema. I am proud to have sponsored and supported the legislation that provided the funding that made this grant possible.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 19, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Congratulates Energy Institute High School on its new building dedication Jackson Lee – “[T]oday’s employment market has present certain factors which make job searches difficult: technology has stitched together a smaller, more interdependent world; globalization and automation have rendered obsolete jobs which before were essential; and there are many vacant jobs which remain unfilled because applicants lack the necessary skills to perform the jobs. Which is why today’s building dedication at the Energy Institute High School is such a momentous occasion.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on the new building dedication at Energy Institute High School: “Time and again, experience has shown that a strong, durable education is among the most reliable indicators of future success. This is no less true when considering the current job climate. But, today’s employment market has present certain factors which make job searches difficult: technology has stitched together a smaller, more interdependent world; globalization and automation have rendered obsolete jobs which before were essential; and there are many vacant jobs which remain unfilled because applicants lack the necessary skills to perform the jobs. Which is why today’s building dedication at the Energy Institute High School is such a momentous occasion. “The significance of this building and this moment cannot and should not be overstated. Investments in education not only improve the professional prospects of students, they also improve student morale, and expand the universe of possibilities for young people. In the real world, this translates to innovations in energy manufacturing, robotics, media & communications and other critical disciplines. I congratulate all who made this day a reality and am heartened to think of all the positive change this can bring to students, parents and stakeholders. I am especially proud of the innovation surely to emanate from the 18th Congressional District, and the new generation of leaders and innovators certain to emanate from the area.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.03.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand September 17, 2018 202-228-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Denounces the Texas Board of Education’s Decision to Drop Historical Figures from Public School Curriculum Jackson Lee – “Moreover, the range of topics selected for manipulation: the former first lady and first woman to earn the nomination for president of a major political party; the first disabled woman to earn a bachelor’s degree; and, Barry Goldwater, the ethnically Jewish individual to secure the presidential nomination of a major political party—speaks more to a naked desire to prevent learning about these important individuals, than it speaks towards conserving instruction time (the stated reason for the change).” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement regarding the decision by the Texas Board of Education to drop historically significant public figures like Hillary Clinton and Helen Keller from the public school curriculum: The announcement by the Texas Board of Education to drop certain figures, including Hillary Clinton and Helen Keller, from the state’s curricula is regressive and deeply disturbing. It represents a denial of our nation’s shared history, and symbolizes a preference for partisanship over scholarship. It is outrageous that the future of our children’s education is handled in such a haphazard way. Moreover, the range of topics selected for exclusion from the curriculum include: the former first lady and first woman to earn the nomination for president of a major political party; the first disabled woman to earn a bachelor’s degree; and, Barry Goldwater, the ethnically Jewish individual to secure the presidential nomination of a major political party—speaks more to a naked desire to prevent learning about these important individuals, than it speaks towards conserving instruction time (the stated reason for the change). The decision to prevent young children from learning about these individuals is not the first from the Texas Board of Education that turns back the clock on knowledge and information. In that respect, it is no different than another of the Board’s terrible decisions to soften slavery as a cause for the civil war. Moreover, in the age of alternative facts and fake news ushered in by the current occupant of the White House, the decision to deprive young minds thirsty for knowledge is especially troubling. I urge the State Board of Education to reverse these decisions at its meeting on November 16, and encourage all Texans to contact their representative on the State Board of Education to make known their objections to these improvident changes to the state’s curricula. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand September 16, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson LeeStatement on the death of Botham Shem Jean by an off-duty Police Officer Jackson Lee—“This shooting incident merits a fulsome investigation, which must be thorough in all respects. The grief stricken family of Mr. Jean requires answers, as does the community writ large and an appalled nation.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement on the shooting death of Botham Shem Jean by an off-duty member of the Dallas Police Department: I am shocked and saddened by the shooting death of Botham Shem Jean, an innocent individual minding his own business in his own apartment, by an off-duty member of the Dallas Police Department. This shooting incidentmerits a fulsome investigation, which must be thorough in all respects. The grief stricken family of Mr. Jean requires answers, as does the community writ large and an appalled nation. Any explanation of Mr. Jean’s death will be difficult to comprehend. I call on the United States Department of Justice to open an investigation to determine whether Mr. Jean’s civil rights were violated as a result of this barbaric and senseless act. It is critical that we receive answers and resolution in this matter because the guarantee of the pursuit of justice for those who survive Mr. Jean is at issue, and all must live with the faith and expectation that our nation’s system of justice works for all. Finally, all involved must be careful not to demonize the victim in this matter, as some are want to do in matters similar to this. Justice requires an impartial, objective approach to determining exactly what happened here. As we monitor this situation from Washington, D.C., it is important to pursue hearings on best practices for law enforcement across this nation, so that situations like what occurred in Dallas to Mr. Jean are not replicated again. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.24.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand September 16, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson LeeStatement on Hurricane Florence Jackson Lee—“Just over a year ago, Houstonians faced the unimaginable task of confronting and then recovering from the destruction left in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. We know the pain and the task before all in the storm’s path and all stand shoulder to shoulder with all suffering due to Florence.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement on the landfall of Hurricane Florence: “On behalf of all the constituents of the 18th congressional district of Texas and indeed all Houstonians, I wish to extend my deepest sympathies for the loss of life already suffered due to Hurricane Florence and hold all within its path in my prayers. Just over a year ago, Houstonians faced the unimaginable task of confronting and then recovering from the destruction left in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. We know the pain and the task before all in the storm’s path and all stand shoulder to shoulder with all suffering due to Florence. As a senior member of the Committee on Homeland Security, I will join with my colleagues in the congressional delegations from the Carolinas and all of my colleagues in the House of Representatives to advocate for expanded disaster spending and believe it is important to begin to secure supplemental appropriations for expanded disaster recovery to help victims of Hurricane Florence. “Once again, I would be remiss were I not to extend my most heartfelt condolences for those mourning the loss of life following this storm. Homes may be rebuilt and materials goods purchased once more, but any loss of life is tragic. Let it be our mission to prevent it when possible and comfort those who know its pain.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.24.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand September 16, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson LeeCalls on the United States Senate to Halt Confirmation Proceedings for Judge Brett Kavanaugh due to allegations of Sexual Misconduct Jackson Lee—“Given his perspective on Executive Power, his hostility towards women’s rights, and his indifference to the plight of minorities, his nomination was already regressive and inadvisable. But, given recent developments that Kavanaugh is credibly accused of sexual misconduct, I call on his confirmation hearings to be halted, and his accuser be given a platform to have her story heard.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement calling on a delay in the confirmation proceedings for Judge Brett Kavanaugh following credible allegations of past sexual misconduct: “I stand with my colleagues in the United States Senate in opposition to the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Given his perspective on Executive Power, his hostility towards women’s rights, and his indifference to the plight of minorities, his nomination was already regressive and inadvisable. But, given recent developments that Kavanaugh is credibly accused of sexual misconduct, I call on his confirmation hearings to be halted, and his accuser be given a platform to have her story heard. The stakes of this nomination, and the times in which we live are too important to deny this brave person the platform her story requires. Just as well, Judge Kavanaugh must be allowed to give his response to these allegations. It is the least of what is required by the Senate’s constitutional responsibility to advise and consent. I call on Chairman Grassley and Leader McConnell to put our nation over party politics.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.24.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand September 14, 2018 (202) 225–3816 press statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Convenes House Leadership and Members to Discuss Hurricane Recovery Efforts in Texas, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands Jackson Lee—“It is sad that the President failed his obligation to help the people of Puerto Rico and has compounded this neglect with indifference. There must be major sustained efforts to help the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and my neighbors dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey.” Houston, TX –Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget, and the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, issued the following statement discussing ongoing hurricane relief efforts following the 2017 hurricane season and recovery efforts during the 2018 season: “The 2017 hurricane season was among the deadliest ever. From San Antonio to St. Croix to San Juan, the destruction left in the wake of a trio of calamitous storms—Harvey, Irma and Maria—has been unimaginable. When Harvey struck my hometown, my fellow Houstonians awoke to a day that would bring them Hurricane Harvey, a monstrous weather event that twice made landfall and which dropped 30 trillion gallons of water and caused $200 billion dollars of damage. The severity of the damage cannot be overstated. Over 100 people died either directly or indirectly because of collateral consequences due to the storm; thousands needed rescue; tens of thousands of homes were damaged and so many, many more lives were affected. After the storm was the recovery, which began the day after the storm first made landfall—the first moment possible. A threshold concern was housing. Harvey damaged or destroyed hundreds of thousands of homes in one of the largest metropolitan areas in our nation. Through critical grant programs, many of which were made possible through legislative vehicles part of my congressional advocacy (including $2.4 billion for housing), the act of restoring people's homes was facilitated through grant programs which will train people in the skills attendant to home repair. “Houston’s recovery efforts were also aided by my efforts to redirect $100 million for increased funding for critical construction projects, like those current and future projects proposed for the Houston/Harris County metropolitan area. This was paired with a redirection of $3 million for increased funding for post-disaster watershed assessment studies, like the one that is being contemplated for the Houston/Harris County metropolitan area. I am pleased that legislation I worked to pass earlier this year provides that the Secretary of the Army may initiate up to six new study starts during fiscal year 2019, and that five of those studies are to involve locales that are the subject of a federal disaster declaration issued in 2017 or 2018. “While Houston has been undergoing its long march to recovery, our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands still experience a fitful recovery effort. The nation’s reckoning with the 2017 hurricane season continues, even as this year’s hurricane season is well under way. A necessary, yet macabre, task of this effort is coming to terms with the true number of lives lost in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands. From the outset, the official tally that only 64 lives were lost seemed low, and appeared more as an effort to provide cover for the claim that this president and his administration responded flawlessly. “A report from earlier this year, promulgated by academicians and policy experts at the George Washington University, indicating that the mortality rate in Puerto Rico skyrocketed after Hurricane Maria, lends to the claim that the consequences of this storm were far deadlier than once thought. Indeed, this was not a simple error of the count. This report indicating that the six months following Maria led to an additional 2,975 deaths is appalling, and all the more so with the knowledge that this has occurred to American citizens on American soil. Troubling still is that the concern about an undercounted registrar of fatalities was apparent in the immediate aftermath of the storm, but dismissed by a president who was eager to prove that his management of this calamity surpassed that of his predecessors, when in fact it is undoubtedly the most incompetent response to a natural disaster, ever. All told, the president’s mismanagement of and response to this crisis revealed a wholesale incompetence, the results of which were sad, an affront to human dignity, and cost the lives of thousands of American citizens. As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Federal Emergency Management Agency, I call on our chairman to hold congressional hearings into the administration’s response to this human tragedy. “And, just yesterday, this president managed to merge two ugly episodes of his presidency—his botched recovery to last year’s hurricanes, and his amoral child separation policy, which he pursued earlier this Summer. It is outrageous and immoral that the Trump Administration has diverted money away from disaster relief and to the Immigration and Customs Agency (“ICE”) to build detention centers to imprison immigrant children forcibly separated from their parents. It is all the more contemptible that news of the diversion comes during the heart of the 2018 hurricane season and as Hurricane Florence barrels towards the Carolinas. The news also comes as the President has renewed his false assertion that his administration’s response to last year’s devastating Hurricane Maria was perfect, when in actuality the Administration’s inertia and incompetence caused close to 3,000 deaths and parts of Puerto Rico are still recovering from the calamity. “All Americans should be offended by the diversion of these funds from helping vulnerable Americans—those recovering from the immediacy of a natural disaster—towards building cages to hold children separated from their parents. I call upon the President to rescind this decision and call on the congressional leadership to conduct oversight of a president who, by the day, appears unequipped to perform the most rudimentary aspects of the office to which he assented by virtue of the Electoral College. It is sad that the President failed his obligation to help the people of Puerto Rico and has compounded this neglect with indifference. There must be major sustained efforts to help the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and my neighbors dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. We must continue this endeavor with the solemnity of Puerto Rico’s revised death toll demands and the purpose and bipartisanship the moment requires and that the American people expect.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand September 12, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Condemns the Diversion of $10 Million of Disaster Relief to Fund ICE Detention Centers to Imprison Immigrant Children Jackson Lee: “Lastly, as if to add insult to injury, the destination of these diverted funds is ICE, presumably to bankroll the President’s abhorrent “no-tolerance” immigration policy, which has been derided by at least two federal courts, and millions of Americans across our nation. All Americans should be offended by the diversion of these funds from helping vulnerable Americans—those recovering from the immediacy of a natural disaster—towards funds to build cages to hold children separated from their parents.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement following news that the President intends to divert disaster relief funds towards ICE: It is outrageous and immoral that the Trump Administration has diverted money away from disaster relief and to the Immigration and Customs Agency (“ICE”) to build detention centers to imprison immigrant children forcibly separated from their parents. It is all the more contemptible that news of the diversion comes during the heart of the 2018 hurricane season and as Hurricane Florence barrels towards the Carolinas. The news also comes as the President has renewed his false assertion that his administration’s response to last year’s devastating Hurricane Maria was perfect, when in actuality the Administration’s inertia and incompetence caused close to 3,000 deaths and parts of Puerto Rico are still recovering from the calamity. “All Americans should be offended by the diversion of these funds from helping vulnerable Americans—those recovering from the immediacy of a natural disaster—towards building cages to hold children separated from their parents. I call upon the President to rescind this decision and call on the congressional leadership to conduct oversight of a president who, by the day, appears unequipped to perform the most rudimentary aspects of the office to which he assented by virtue of the Electoral College.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.24.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand September 11, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Anniversary of the September 11 Attacks WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement on the Anniversary of September 11th terror attacks: “Seventeen years ago, a day of unimaginable horror and terror was visited upon our nation at the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Thousands of souls were lost, and countless lives were irreparably changed. In the days after that event, Americans repurposed ourselves to the unity and the patriotism that are the hallmarks of our great republic. Seventeen years later, my heart still grieves for those who perished on flights United Airlines 93, American Airlines 77, American Airlines 11, and United Airlines 175. In this time, I call on my fellow Americans to summon the bipartisan spirit that emerged the days following the 9/11 attacks, and move forward with the task of doing the country’s work, imbued with a sense of purpose and goodwill.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand September 10, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Media Advisory Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Celebrates Gospel Music Heritage Month and Honors the Queen of Soul at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts at Evolution of Gospel 2018: A Tribute to Aretha Franklin Houston, TX –Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, asenior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget, and the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, and the Chair of the Congressional Jazz Caucus, will celebrate the tenth anniversary of the designation of September as Gospel Music Heritage Month at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. In addition to this being the decennial of the designation, this year will honor a legend of the music world whom we lost last month, the Queen of Soul Aretha Franklin. Join Congresswoman Jackson Lee as she celebrates a cultural icon and her contributions to this important genre of music. WHO: ​Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee(TX-18), Chair, Congressional Jazz Caucus WHAT: ​Gospel Music Heritage Month Foundation presents Evolution of Gospel 2018: A Tribute to Aretha Franklin WHEN: ​Monday, September 10, 2018, 7:00 p.m. WHERE:​John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts​ Concert Hall 2700 F. Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20566 ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18thCongressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand September 7, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls on Congress to Reject Rushed, Overbroad and Unnecessary Changes to Criminal Laws and Work to Enact Meaningful Criminal Justice Reform Jackson Lee: “The bill is overbroad, unnecessary and could have substantial harmful effects because expanding the definition of certain crimes exacerbates the nagging societal predicament of enlarging the prison population. This is not merely a theoretical problem; rather, the lives of countless individuals—mostly black and brown men from poor and underserved neighborhood—hang in the balance.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget issued this statement following House passage of H.R. 6691, the Community Safety and Security Act: “The recognized—yet long overdue—need to reform our broken criminal justice system will not be helped by H.R. 6691, the “Community Safety and Security Act,” which was debated this morning on the floor of the House of Representatives. H.R. 6691 expands the group of crimes within the ambit of federal enforcement and adds alternative definitions to increase the number of federal crimes which will exacerbate the mass incarceration crisis. More importantly, this bill was rushed to the floor without any hearing or markup to receive the input of policy experts and practitioners. “However well-intentioned, this bill haphazardly pushes forward an overly expansive definition of crime of violence. The bill is overbroad, unnecessary and could have substantial harmful effects because expanding the definition of certain crimes exacerbates the nagging societal predicament of enlarging the prison population. This is not merely a theoretical problem; rather, the lives of countless individuals—mostly black and brown men from poor and underserved neighborhood—hang in the balance. “The statistics are illustrative. According to a recent report by the Pew Research Center, African Americans make up 33% of the prison population and Hispanics make up 23%. Therefore, together they make up 56% of the prisons population. For example, this bill alarmingly makes burglary a crime of violence, even where a person simply remains in a building without authorization and, while there, forming the intent to commit even a minor, non-violent offense. In sum, the bill’s aim is to justify more arrests and prosecutions and longer prison sentences. Not only does that implicate future arrests, it also complicates efforts to enact meaningful criminal justice reform, which this Congress acknowledged is in need of dire repair. For these reasons, I could not support this piece of legislation. I encourage all well-intentioned legislators to consider this and other efforts to reform our criminal justice system so that it may serve its ends and permit those within it the opportunity, if possible, to resume living normal, redeeming lives.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.24.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand September 4, 2018 (202) 225 – 3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commends the award of a $147,954 Grant to fund The Children's Museum Of Houston Jackson Lee—“This crucial grant project will help advance the vision of two Houston collective impact initiatives with the project "Houston Complete Communities." The collaborators will establish demonstration projects supporting parents in low-income neighborhoods with early learning strategies they can use with their children during the first years of life.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement on the award of $147,954 in federal grants to the Institute of Museum and Library Services to fund the Children's Museum of Houston: “The Institute of Museum and Library Services is charged to advance, support, and empower America’s museums, libraries, and related organizations through grant-making, research, and policy development. Museums contribute more than $50 billion into the U.S. economy annually, support more than 726,000 American jobs, generate $12 billion in tax revenue, and spur tourism from around the world. The Children's Museum of Houston connects children and families with experiences that they can customize to suit their own learning interests. The Houston region has one of the largest child populations in the U.S. and the Children's Museum of Houston serves an audience of more than 1 million children and families each year. I am proud to announce that the Children’s Museum of Houston has been awarded $147,954 in funds for which I advocated. This crucial grant project will fund the two demonstration projects that will be fully active for one year, with six months of advance planning and six months of reporting and sharing at completion. These projects will involve the collaboration of The Children's Museum of Houston, Houston Health Department and others including the Houston Public Library. This crucial grant award will help advance the vision of two Houston collective impact initiatives with the project "Houston Complete Communities." The collaborators will establish demonstration projects supporting parents in two low-income neighborhoods with early learning strategies they can use with their children during the first three years of life. There is currently no community-wide collective effort to provide parents of children aged three and under with strategies to advance literacy development. I commend the Children’s Museum on the great work that they are doing for the youth of the city of Houston.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand August 29, 2018 (202) 225 – 3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commends the award of a $382,500 Grant to fund the University of Houston’s Vision Research Program Jackson Lee— “This crucial grant project, funded through 2023, will research the role of hyaluronan in the cornea, specifically focusing on the regulation of limbal stem cell fate and lymphangiogenesis. The research will increase knowledge about the structure and function of the visual system, and improve visual health.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, announced today that the National Eye Institute has awarded grants to fund the Vision Research Program at the University of Houston: “The University of Houston is a world-class research institution, which boasts a premier College of Optometry. The College of Optometry has a robust research program with more than 30 renowned faculty, conducting research supported by grant funds to prevent, or slow the progression of visual loss using a variety of approaches. It has been paramount in conducting research for health issues that affect the eyes of women and children. I am proud to announce that the College of Optometry has been awarded $382,500 in funds for which I advocated. This crucial grant project, funded through 2023, will research the role of hyaluronan in the cornea specifically focusing on the regulation of limbal stem cell fate and lymphangiogenesis. It is appropriate that this grant be awarded and recognized during August which is Children’s Eye Health and Safety Month. The research will increase knowledge about the structure and function of the visual system, and improve visual health.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand August 28, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Demands Congressional Hearings into the Response and Recovery Efforts Following Reports that 2,975 American Lives were lost in the months after Hurricane Maria and the Bungled Response by the Trump Administration Jackson Lee: “There must be major sustained efforts to help the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and my neighbors dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. We must continue this endeavor with the solemnity today’s revised death toll demands and the purpose and bipartisanship the moment requires and that the American people expect.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary, and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, today released the following statement following a report indicating that the death toll in Puerto Rico in the six months following Hurricane Maria was exponentially higher when compared to the same period in years past: “The nation’s reckoning with the 2017 hurricane season continues, even as this year’s hurricane season is well under way. A necessary, yet macabre, task of this effort is coming to terms with the true number of lives lost in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands. From the outset, the official tally that only 64 lives were lost seemed low, and appeared more as an effort to provide cover for the claim that this president and his administration responded flawlessly. “Today’s report, promulgated by academicians and policy experts at the George Washington University, indicating that the mortality rate in Puerto Rico skyrocketed after Hurricane Maria lends to the claim that the consequences of this storm were far deadlier than once thought. Indeed, this was not a simple error of the count. Today’s report that the six months following Maria led to an additional 2,975 deaths is appalling, and all the more so with the knowledge that this has occurred to American citizens on American soil. Troubling still is that the concern about an undercounted registrar of fatalities was apparent in the immediate aftermath of the storm, but dismissed by a president who was eager to prove that his management of this calamity surpassed that of his predecessors, when in fact it is undoubtedly the most incompetent response to a natural disaster, ever. All told, the president’s mismanagement of and response to this crisis revealed a wholesale incompetence, the results of which were sad, an affront to human dignity, and cost the lives of thousands of American citizens. As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Federal Emergency Management Agency, I call on our chairman to hold congressional hearings into the administration’s response to this human tragedy. “It is sad that the President failed his obligation to help the people of Puerto Rico and has compounded this neglect with indifference. There must be major sustained efforts to help the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and my neighbors dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. We must continue this endeavor with the solemnity today’s revised death toll demands and the purpose and bipartisanship the moment requires and that the American people expect.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Commemorates the 55th Anniversary of the March on Washington and Dr. King’s I Have a Dream Speech Jackson Lee—“By many critical metrics, as a result of slavery—America’s Original Sin—African Americans continue to lag behind their white counterparts. Dr. King’s dream cannot be fully realized until this is no longer so.” Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released this statement on the 55th anniversary of the historic March on Washington: “It was originally marked as the ‘March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.’ But as we reflect on that day, August 28, 1963, it would not be an overstatement to say that the march that concluded with a young preacher from Atlanta, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, changed America. The coda of Dr. King’s I Have a Dream speech reverberates today: ‘I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.’ “Today, fifty-five years later, America has made much progress in realizing Dr. King’s dream, but there is still much to be done. While we have seen the election of an African American president and Americans of all political stripes watched that man serve with dignity, grace and class, more still needs to be done. African Americans are still more likely to be incarcerated at greater numbers than their white counterparts; more likely to earn less than their white counterparts; and are more likely to live in poverty than their white counterparts. By many critical metrics, as a result of slavery—America’s Original Sin—African Americans continue to lag behind their white counterparts. Dr. King’s dream cannot be fully realized until this is no longer so. “When he was campaigning for president and soliciting the support of African Americans, the current occupant of the White House asked of us “what do you have to lose?” To answer that question, it is the progress we have made and hope and potential for more meaningful change in the days to come.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
09.24.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand September 16, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson LeeCommends Webb County Law Enforcement on its arrest of a Suspected Serial Murderer Jackson Lee—“As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security—which has oversight over Customs and Border Patrol and the entire Department of Homeland Security—I am especially concerned about whether and to what extent this individual, if he is found to have committed these heinous crimes, misused the rights and responsibilities attendant to his official position as a supervisory agent of the Customs and Border Patrol as a tool to commit these crimes.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement following the arrest of a suspected serial murderer, a supervisory agent at the United States Customs and Border Patrol: “I am shocked by the gruesome murders committed in and around Laredo, Texas, of these four individuals, and the injuries sustained to a fifth person. I appreciate the hard work of law enforcement in Webb County, including the Webb County Sheriff Department and the Webb County District Attorney in naming and apprehending a suspect, who has subsequently been identified as a supervisory agent with the United States Customs and Border Patrol. “Many questions about these crimes remain to be answered and to be certain, the criminal justice system in Webb County will work its will. As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security—which has oversight over Customs and Border Patrol and the entire Department of Homeland Security—I am especially concerned about whether and to what extent this individual, if he is found to have committed these heinous crimes, misused the rights and responsibilities attendant to his official position as a supervisory agent of the Customs and Border Patrol as a tool to commit these crimes. I encourage the Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security to hold hearings on this matter and recommend that the Office of Inspector General within the Department of Homeland Security conduct an investigation into this matter.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.24.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand September 5, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Media Advisory Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Attends Supreme Court Confirmation Hearings and Encourages Senators to Reject the Nomination of Brett Kavanaugh due to Concerns about his Judicial Philosophy and the lack of Transparency Surrounding his Nomination and Confirmation Proceedings Houston, TX - A presidential appointment to the Supreme Court is for life and whoever is selected for the role must abide by the principles that have made our democracy the strongest in the history of the world. The Supreme Court is not just any court. In our great Republic, it is the tribunal of last resort and routinely resolves constitutional questions of first impression. The American people rely on it to interpret some of society’s most difficult policy concerns, and to correct the excesses of the popularly-elected branches. The Supreme Court is the arbiter of our country’s most vexing societal issues. It determines the parameters of voting in federal elections; the reach of our criminal justice system, and the state of our civil liberties and our rights to privacy. The nature of the Court requires justices, not ideologues, and individuals who have integrity and empathy. When he was first nominated, I urged the Senate to conduct a searching and fulsome inquiry of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s credentials to determine his suitability for this appointment. Yet, what has instead taken place has been far short of this charge. The Democratic members of the Senate have been consistently thwarted in their efforts to receive documents and information related to this nominee’s background, and denied in their requests for more time to review those documents which were produced, compounding concerns about the judicial philosophy of this nominee, the circumstances of his nomination, and the transparency of the confirmation process. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and Budget, and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, will attend today’s confirmation hearings and urge members of the United States Senate to reject Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination. WHO: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) WHAT: Attends Supreme Court Confirmation hearings. WHEN: Wednesday, September 5, 2018, 9:30 A.M. WHERE: 216 Hart Senate Office Building United States Senate ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18th Congressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
08.27.2018	Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Shooting in Jacksonville, Florida Jackson Lee: “The tragedies visited on Parkland, Florida, and Santa Fe, Texas, from earlier this year brought sadness to those communities and indeed shocked the country. Yet, lost in these headlines is the persistent national concern of gun violence in America, which afflicts cities like Chicago, Houston and other large cities on a daily basis. Which is why our sadness and concern, by itself, is insufficient. As members of Congress, all of us have a responsibility to do what we can to stem the tide of gun violence in our country.” Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, issued the following statement following this weekend’s shooting in Jacksonville: “After this past weekend, another community is reeling from a mass shooting incident in America. This time, the town is Jacksonville, Florida, and the shooting took the lives of two individuals. I thank the brave first responders who helped bring a resolution to this incident. I pray for those lives lost and affected by this senseless act of violence. “While the city and death toll this time are different, nothing has changed about this country’s implacable and gnawing problem with guns. Since the beginning of this year through the end of last month, we have had scores of mass shooting incidents and close to 10,000 lives lost due to gun violence. The tragedies visited on Parkland, Florida, and Santa Fe, Texas, from earlier this year brought sadness to those communities and indeed shocked the country. Yet, lost in these headlines is the persistent national concern of gun violence in America, which afflicts cities like Chicago and other large cities on a daily basis. Which is why our sadness and concern, by itself, is insufficient. As members of Congress, all of us have a responsibility to do what we can to stem the tide of gun violence in our country. The time has long since passed for action on this issue.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing the 18thCongressional District of Texas, is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security and the Budget. She is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
06.20.2018	For Immediate Release Contact: Robin Chand June 20, 2018 (202) 225–3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee and House Democrats Stand with Families and Support Legislation to Prevent the Separation of Parents and Children at the Border Jackson Lee: “When I visited the border this past weekend, what I witnessed was horrific. This is not the America I know and love and the Administration must cease and desist this inhumane and cruel policy. Congressional action is necessary in the face of the administration’s heartless actions. If enacted, the Keep Families Together Act would keep families together, limit criminal prosecution for asylum seekers, increase child welfare training, establish public policy preference for family reunification, add procedures for separated families, and establish other required measures.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Budget, and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued this statement following the introduction of legislation designed to end the senseless and inhumane policy of separating children from their parents at our southern border: “There is a humanitarian crisis at our borders. The Trump Administration’s ‘zero tolerance’ immigration policy is directly, and shamefully, responsible for ripping families apart at the US-Mexico border. This policy has drawn near-universal condemnation. The American Academy of Pediatrics, the United States Conference of Bishops, and the Prime Minister of our closest ally, the United Kingdom, have all condemned the practice. They recognize what House Republicans and the President do not: separating children from their families has long-lasting consequences, many of which are not fully apparent until the children are much older. Unfortunately, many—including me—fear that it will then be too late, and the damage already done. The Keep Families Together Act seeks to fill this void and addresses the harm being done in our name at our southern border. When I visited the border this past weekend, what I witnessed was horrific. This was not the America I know and love, and the Administration must cease and desist this inhumane and cruel policy. Congressional action is necessary in the face of the administration’s heartless actions and subsequent inaction. If enacted, the Keep Families Together Act would keep families together, limit criminal prosecution for asylum seekers, increase child welfare training, establish public policy preference for family reunification, add procedures for separated families, and establish other required measures. “This bill promotes family unity by prioritizing keeping families together. It would prohibit the Department of Homeland Security from separating children from their parents except in extraordinary circumstances. The bill requires an independent child welfare agent official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It also imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the ban on family separation. Customs and Border Protection officials and agents must also complete child welfare training annually, under the bill. “The Keep Families Together Act, introduced by Representative Jerry Nadler, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, is a necessary solution to the President’s outrageously cruel ‘zero tolerance’ policy on immigration. Over the last six months, approximately 700 children have been taken from their families at the border. The Department of Homeland Security has reported that since then, at least 2,300 children have been separated from the ones they love. The Keep Families Together Act prioritizes family unity and I strongly support it. Under no circumstance can we allow the barbaric separation of families to continue. This policy is one of the most un-American policies implemented under the Trump Administration. I strongly support the Keep Families Together Act and urge all my colleagues to do so, too.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
06.18.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand April 9, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee – Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations - Intends to Lead the Reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act Jackson Lee: “I stand firm in my commitment to seize the moment and ensure that Congress reauthorizes the landmark Violence Against Women Act, a law that has proven critical in the lives of so many survivors.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, released the following statement following the announcement of her intention to lead the effort to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act: “The Violence Against Women Act (“VAWA”) is central to our nation’s effort to fight the epidemic of domestic, sexual dating violence, and stalking. As cultural and societal movements like #MeToo cascade through our zeitgeist, we are reminded that the time for zero tolerance towards this type of abuse has long since passed, and this sea change must now be the norm. The courage, strength and resilience displayed by survivors has reminded all that we must continue to foster an environment for victims of violence to come forward and expose episodes of violence against women. Unfortunately, VAWA is set to expire this year. That is why I will soon introduce legislation that reauthorizes VAWA, and in the process strengthens it by investing in prevention, removing barriers and expanding access to include more protections for victims of this violence. “After its initial enactment a quarter-century ago, VAWA—through policy reforms, interstate cooperation and grant allocation—has been pivotal in providing a national response to protecting half of the population. Equally important, it has ushered in a seismic transformation on how society perceives violence against women. The law has enhanced and improved the lives of girls and women, boys and men. It has unquestionably improved the national response to these terrible crimes. Nonetheless, much work remains to address unmet needs and to enhance access to protections and services for all victims, including sexual harassment, sex trafficking and tribal injustices. “Since VAWA’s codification in 1994, more victims report episodes of domestic violence to the police and the rate of non-fatal intimate partner violence against women has decreased by almost two-thirds. VAWA has also led to a significant increase in the reporting of sexual assault. For example, the percentage of victims of rape and sexual assault who report the assault to the police increased from 28.8% in 1993—the year prior to VAWA’s initial passage—to 50% in 2010. In the first 15 years of VAWA’s validity, rates of serious intimate partner violence declined by 72 percent for women and 64 percent for men. Research suggests that referring a victim to a domestic violence or sexual assault advocate has been linked to an increased willingness to file a police report – survivors with an advocate filed a report with law enforcement 59% of the time, versus 41% for individuals not referred to a victim advocate. This progress cannot be allowed to stop. Congress must continue sending the clear message that violence against women is unacceptable. Prior to VAWA, law enforcement lacked the resources and tools to respond effectively to domestic violence and sexual assault. Each reauthorization of VAWA has improved protections for women and men, while helping to change the culture and reduce the tolerance for these crimes. “This is personal, and ought to be for all Houstonians. The need for these funds is manifest when realizing that here in our city, nearly 4,000 requests for support from victims are turned away every year due to a lack of capacity at the largest provider in the area, the Houston Area Women’s Center. In Texas, the National Network to End Domestic Violence’s Domestic Violence Counts Census found that 6,627 victims received services in one day. Without VAWA funds, requests by survivors for housing, legal representation, counseling and other supportive services go unmet. VAWA has successfully encouraged communities to coordinate their responses to violence against women by bringing together victim advocates, law enforcement, the courts, healthcare professionals, and leaders within faith communities. As a result of this historic legislation, every state has enacted laws making stalking a crime and strengthened criminal rape statutes. Congresswoman Jackson Lee is proud of the hard work put forth in this initiative and asks that all stand together on this extraordinary journey and, in a bipartisan manner, reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand April 3, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Demands Congressional Investigations Following the President’s Decision to Deploy the National Guard to the U.S. - Mexico Border Jackson Lee: “The president’s provocative and reckless decision to deploy the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border is a misuse of federal resources and likely was fueled by the same animus and xenophobia that have driven his public comments on this issue for many, many years.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and former Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement on the president’s decision to deploy the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border: “The decision by the White House and the Department of Homeland Security to deploy the National Guard to our U.S.-Mexico border is a solution in search of a problem, and a reckless misuse of federal resources that will not make our nation any safer. More than likely, the President’s decision to deploy the National Guard was fueled by the same animus and xenophobia that have driven his public comments on this issue for many, many years, and to distract attention from the fact that he has been advised by the Special Counsel that he is a subject of the Russia investigation. “At the end of the day, this act hurts our relationship with one of our closest allies and strongest trading partners, and vilifies an entire segment of the population. I am concerned that this rash decision was done without consultation of the Congress and I urge the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee to hold hearings on this matter” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand April 2, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Mourns the Passing of Winnie Mandela Jackson Lee: “I was honored to meet Winnie Mandela here in Houston, shortly after Madiba was freed and stirred the conscience of the world. Winnie Mandela was a force for equality and worked tirelessly alongside her legendary former husband. Winnie has gone home and the world is a better place because Winnie and Madiba graced us with their presence.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement following the passing of Winnie Mandela: “Winnie Mandela was known by a lot of names to the people of South Africa: “Mother of the Nation;” South Africa’s “First Social Worker;” and the “Voice of Defiance.” All can agree, however, that she lived a consequential life full of purpose. “Winnie Mandela was so much more than the wife of Nelson Mandela. During his decades-long incarceration at Robben Island, Winnie assumed the mantle of anti-Apartheid resistance and carried forward the message of equality. Together, they came to symbolize the movement that would soon topple Apartheid. “After Madiba’s service to his beloved South Africa, Winnie had her own turn as an elected official. She brought to that role the same steadfast resolve that she so effectively used to fight oppression and injustice. “I was honored to meet Winnie Mandela here in Houston, shortly after Madiba was freed and stirred the conscience of the world. Winnie Mandela was a force for equality and worked tirelessly alongside her legendary former husband. Winnie has gone home and the world is a better place because Winnie and Madiba graced us with their presence.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand March 27, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Demands that the Congress Act to Protect DREAMERS and Ignore the President’s Shameful and Despicable Tweets Jackson Lee: They are in this position through no fault of their own, and their situation has been exacerbated by the President’s self-inflicted and ill-advised decision to reverse their protected status. There is overwhelming bicameral, bipartisan support for a DACA fix. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement following the President’s tweets related to the DREAMERS and those eligible for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “The series of tweets unleashed by the president over the holiday weekend were shameful and despicable. Easter is a time for reflection on life’s blessings, like freedom, salvation and grace. For the president, it meant: lying about the fact that he sabotaged Dreamers to appease his base; ignoring that courts routinely reject his immigration policies; blaming Democrats even though the GOP controls Congress; and, swallowing Fox News talking points. “We must protect the country’s 800,000 DREAMERS—124,000 of whom are Texans—and our young people who were eligible for the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (“DACA”). We owe these young people a future and we owe them a solution. They are in this position through no fault of their own, and their situation has been exacerbated by the President’s self-inflicted and ill-advised decision to reverse their protected status. There is overwhelming bicameral, bipartisan support for a DACA fix. “The time to find a solution for these young adults has long since passed. Congress must act now and stop playing politics with the lives of these young DREAMERS.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 29, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Demands that the United States Department of Justice Investigate the Harris County Sheriff’s Killing of Danny Ray Thomas and Plans Community Meeting to Address Gun Violence Jackson Lee: I am also concerned to know about the extent to which de-escalation policies are employed, or ignored, by law enforcement in Houston. The Harris County Sheriff’s Department has indicated that the deputy involved in Mr. Thomas’s killing was trained to use non-lethal force and equipped with a Taser, which he did not use. We must always remember that lethal force must be the last resort for law enforcement to protect themselves and the community. To do otherwise erodes trust. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the killing of Danny Ray Thomas by the Harris County Sheriff’s Department: Once more, we are left to wonder what could have been if an unarmed African American man was not felled by a bullet from law enforcement. Danny Ray Thomas was 34 years-old when he was shot and killed by Officer Cameron Brewer of the Harris County Sheriff’s Department. Like too many before him, his killing raises serious questions about the pattern and practices of law enforcement, and the interplay between communities of color and those charged to protect and serve. I am proud of my support for law enforcement and honor the sacrifices made daily by police. However, this case raises many concerns that should be addressed. For example, while there was a working dashboard camera in the responding officer’s patrol car, the body camera he was wearing was turned off, and unable to capture the incident as it transpired. The severity of this oversight is compounded by the fact that the dashboard camera video failed to capture video images of the shooting, as it occurred out of frame from the dashboard camera. The video also shows that Mr. Thomas’s pants were lowered to his ankles and that his hands appeared to be up, suggesting that the placement of clothing on his body and his hands appearing to be up would mitigate any bodily harm he would have caused to the officer even if Mr. Thomas were to lunge the responding officer, which he did not. We must always remember that lethal force must be the last resort for law enforcement to protect themselves and the community. I am concerned to know about the extent to which de-escalation policies are employed, or ignored, by law enforcement in Houston. The Harris County Sheriff’s Department has indicated that the deputy involved in Mr. Thomas’s killing was trained to use non-lethal force and equipped with a Taser, which he did not use. I encourage a comprehensive review of this matter by all law enforcement agencies, and I call on the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice to investigate whether the federal civil rights of Danny Ray Thomas were violated. Before Danny Ray Thomas’s life ended prematurely and violently at the hands of law enforcement, he was plagued with mental health issues and no stranger to heartache. His two children died young at the hands of their mother, who drowned them and buried them under a neighbor’s house. Danny Ray Thomas’s killing raises serious questions, to which his family deserves answers as they lay to rest yet another of their loved ones. We will hold a community meeting on Monday, April 2, 2018, to work together to stem the siege of gun violence in our communities. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 28, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges Action to Fix DACA, Protect the Special Counsel’s Russia Investigation and Protect Children Jackson Lee: As I stated earlier this year, the opportunity to pass a federal spending bill must not come and go without ensuring that it includes protections for Dreamers, strengthens the rule of law, and protects our children. Because the Omnibus bill did not include these provisions, I could not support it. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the passage of the FY2018 Omnibus spending bill: “The Omnibus spending bill that passed Congress last week has much to commend it, including the fact that Congests has finally increased the caps on discretionary nondefense spending by $117 billion. While it is good that Congress has done this, it left unresolved many important problems that demand action. “We must protect the country’s 800,000 DREAMERS—124,000 of whom are Texans—and our young people who were eligible for the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (“DACA”). We owe these young people a future and we owe them a solution. They are in this position through no fault of their own, and their situation has been exacerbated by the President’s self-inflicted and ill-advised decision to reverse their protected status. There is overwhelming bicameral, bipartisan support for a DACA fix. The time to find a solution for these young adults has long since passed. Congress must act to fix this mess now. “Another priority, heavily supported by the American people but conspicuously left out of the budget bill, is the need to protect our democracy from foreign interference. Every day, the American people learn more and more about the role played by the Russians in the 2016 election, and the extent to which their efforts may have been aided and abetted by associates of the Trump campaign. Trump must be prevented from impeding this investigation so that we may fully learn how a foreign hostile power meddled in our democracy, and what we must do to safeguard against future such attacks. I have introduced legislation, H.R. 3654, to protect the Special Counsel which has the support of over 135 members of Congress. And Americans do not want this investigation impeded or obstructed by the President, or anyone else for that matter. A recent poll by Marist indicated that 69% of all Americans want this investigation completed. The best way to do this is for Congress to pass H.R. 3654, the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, and protect the rule of law. “Every day, Americans are horrified by the scourge of gun violence plaguing our schools and communities. The victims and survivors from Parkland have awoken the nation’s conscience, as evidenced by the historic marches all over the country this past weekend. Unfortunately, the response from the Republicans in Congress has been to blame interagency discipline guidance protocols from the Obama Administration. The guidelines actually served to eliminate harm to students from unjustified discipline policies, which disproportionately affect young black and brown students. The need to protect these students of color, who already lose instructional time due to onerous school discipline policies, is manifest. Responding to school shootings by attacking school discipline policies is as effective as hoping that CPR will mend bodily organs ravaged by bullets from assault rifles. We must end gun violence now. Enough is enough. “All of these issues could have been addressed by Congressional Republicans in the Omnibus spending bill, but were not. The Republican leadership refused to include these measures in the Omnibus. As I warned earlier this year, the opportunity to pass a federal spending bill must not come and go without ensuring that bill protects the rule of law, and protects our children, and that I would not support a bill that did not include these provisions. Because the Omnibus bill did not, I could not.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 27, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges the United States Department of Justice to Investigate the Harris County Sheriff’s Killing of Danny Ray Thomas Jackson Lee: I am also concerned to know about the extent to which de-escalation policies are employed, or ignored, by law enforcement in Houston. The Harris County Sheriff’s Department has indicated that the deputy involved in Mr. Thomas’s killing was trained to use non-lethal force and equipped with a Taser, which he did not use. We must always remember that lethal force must only be the last resort for law enforcement. To do otherwise erodes trust in the community. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the killing of Danny Ray Thomas by the Harris County Sheriff’s Department: Once more, we are left to wonder what could have been if an unarmed African-American man was not felled by a bullet from law enforcement. Danny Ray Thomas was 34 years-old when he was shot and killed by the Harris County Sheriff’s Department. Like too many before him, his killing raises serious questions about the state of law enforcement, and the interplay between communities of color and those charged to protect and serve. I am proud of my support for law enforcement and honor the sacrifices made daily by police, but many aspects of this incident give me great pause. For example, while there was a working dashboard camera in the responding officer’s patrol car, the body camera he was wearing was turned off, and unable to capture the incident as it transpired. The severity of this oversight is compounded by the fact that the dashcam video failed to capture video images of the shooting, as it occurred out of frame from the dashboard camera. The video also shows that Mr. Thomas’s pants were lowered to his ankles, suggesting the placement of clothing on his body could mitigate any bodily harm he would cause to the officer, even if Mr. Thomas were to lunge towards the responding officer, which he did not. We must always remember that lethal force must be the last resort for law enforcement. I am concerned to know about the extent to which de-escalation policies are employed, or ignored, by law enforcement in Houston. The Harris County Sheriff’s Department has indicated that the deputy involved in Mr. Thomas’s killing was trained to use non-lethal force and equipped with a Taser, which he did not use. I encourage a comprehensive review of this matter by all law enforcement agencies, and I call on the United States Department of Justice to determine whether the federal civil rights of Danny Ray Thomas were violated. Before Danny Ray Thomas’s life ended prematurely and violently at the hands of law enforcement, he was plagued with mental health issues and no stranger to heartache. His two children died young at the hands of their mother, who drowned them and buried them under a neighbor’s house. Danny Ray Thomas’s killing raises serious questions, to which his family deserves answers as they lay to rest yet another of their loved ones. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 27, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges the United States Department of Commerce to Reverse its Decision to ask about Citizenship on the 2020 National Census Jackson Lee: The decision to ask about citizenship is reminiscent of an uglier time in our country’s history where the questions about fair and equal representation were informed by immutable characteristics, such as race. I encourage the Department of Commerce to reverse its decision to pursue this line of questioning on the census and if not, hope the lawsuit challenging the decision is successful in a court of law. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the Department of Commerce’s decision to ask about citizenship on the 2020 National Census: “Our system of government is a representative democracy. Our elected officials must be responsive to the general populace in order to help represent their interests honestly. The Department of Commerce’s announcement that it would inquire as to respondents’ citizenship status on the 2020 National Census jeopardizes this ideal. It is troubling, misguided and recalls a terrible chapter of our history. “Our decennial census is a critical exercise, as it dictates the representative power of each state and helps inform the internal redistribution of our national assets. The decision to ask about citizenship invites concern, and has the potential to disproportionately impact vulnerable and underserved communities, as well as communities of color. For example, given the current political climate, it has the potential to intimidate potential respondents, irrespective of their citizenship status. It is no coincidence that this decision is opposed by groups such as the NAACP and other civil rights organizations. “It also appears that the decision is not driven by concerns to get an accurate count, but instead by politics. The consequences of this decision are not relegated to “blue states” or “red states.” Statistics show that 60 percent of the country’s undocumented immigrants live in urban areas, a majority of which was won by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election. An undercount of metropolitan urban areas could adversely affect the funds received by cities such as Houston, Austin and Dallas. “Lastly, the decision to ask about citizenship is reminiscent of an uglier time in our country’s history where the questions about fair and equal representation were informed by immutable characteristics, such as race. I encourage the Department of Commerce to reverse its decision to pursue this line of questioning on the census and if not, hope the lawsuit challenging the decision is successful in a court of law. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 26, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges the Senate to Work Across the Aisle to Help Vulnerable Citizens and Strengthen the Right to Try Act Jackson Lee: As a cancer survivor, I empathize with patients with serious illnesses confronting difficult challenges, but H.R. 5247 is not a thoughtful response to this serious problem. It ignores the FDA’s diligence in approving experiential trials and is overwhelmingly opposed by every major patient organization…I urge my partners in the Senate to reject this legislation and to work across the aisle to ensure that patients have access to needed treatment therapies without compromising the greatest drug safety regime in the world. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding House passage of H.R. 5247, the GOP’s Right to Try Act of 2018: “The Food and Drug Administration has been a critical force for ensuring that clinical trials for experiential treatments are available for seriously ill patients. Last week, the GOP-led House of Representatives passed H.R. 5247, which undermines the rigorous framework laid out by the FDA in approving trial drugs to trial patients. “The FDA’s current process in this area is not onerous or restrictive. Seriously ill applicants seeking to avail themselves of this process may already do so in a straightforward manner. The application process takes less than an hour and a recent study from the Government Accountability Office reveals that the FDA approves about 99 percent of trial requests submitted to the agency. Of the 1700 trial requests submitted to the FDA, only nine were denied. “As a cancer survivor, I empathize with patients with serious illnesses confronting difficult challenges, but H.R. 5247 is not a thoughtful response to this serious problem. It ignores the FDA’s diligence in approving experiential trials and is overwhelmingly opposed by every major patient organization. In fact, a collection of over 100 patient-centered groups, including the National Organization for Rare Disorders and the American Cancer Society’s Cancer Action Network, have written to oppose this legislation. Moreover, beyond the risks to safety, H.R. 5247 also endangers health and hospice coverage of patients. I urge my partners in the Senate to reject this legislation and to work across the aisle to ensure that patients have access to needed treatment therapies without compromising the greatest drug safety regime in the world. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand April 2, 2018 202-768-0641 (c) 202-225-3816 (o) Press Advisory Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Leads “No More Bloodshed Movement” Town Hall WHEN: 7:00 pm to 9:00 pm, Monday, April 2, 2018 WHERE: International Green House Church, 200 W. Greens Rd., Houston, TX 77067 WHO: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzales, Pastor E. A. Deckard, Bishop James Dixon, Houston Police Asst. Chief Troy Finner, Bishop Shelton Bady, Dr. F.N. Williams, Dr. James Douglas, Harris County Community Relations Director Jacqueline Fortune, Rep. Jarvis Johnson, D.A. Kim Ogg, Deric Muhammad. WHAT: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee will be speaking to the community about the recent series of police shootings involving unarmed African American men. This will be a detailed presentation and will consider whether Danny Ray Thomas’s killing by the Harris County Sheriff’s Department may have been unjustified. She will also discuss alternatives to the employment of lethal force, including de-escaltion training, and the provisions of legislation she will introduce this month, the Law Enforcement Integrity Act. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand April 6, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges the United States Department of Justice to Investigate the Killing of Saheed Vassell Jackson Lee: “Law enforcement is a difficult job. All stakeholders in the community must ensure that honest police officers, as well as those whom they protect and serve, can live free from fear of physical harm or danger.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released this statement following the death of Saheed Vassell: “The killing of Saheed Vassell by law enforcement is sad and regrettable. All who support law enforcement realize that their job is difficult. This particular incident, however, raises troubling questions about the adequacy of the N.Y.P.D.’s de-escalation policies and training. For example, it has been reported that Mr. Vassell was known to be mentally-ill by many members of the community as well as by law enforcement. Further, this particular shooting involved plainclothes officers and this fact, when confronting a mentally-ill person, has the potential to exacerbate an already combustible situation. This killing is yet another in a recent string of officer-involved shootings, all of which have renewed the call for greater training for police when responding to situations involving mental health, sensitivity to hyper-dangerous situations, added training for plainclothes officers, and de-escalation of volatile incidents. “Law enforcement is a difficult job. All stakeholders in the community must ensure that honest police officers, as well as those whom they protect and serve, can live free from fear of physical harm or danger. I look forward to reviewing the findings of the New York Attorney General following a thorough investigation of this matter, and have called upon the United States Department of Justice to determine if the local police violated Saheed Vassell’s civil rights.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 27, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges the United States Department of Justice to Investigate the Killing of Stephon Clark Jackson Lee: This act defeats the purpose of police body cameras, erodes trust within the community and adds greater concern to an already regrettable and preventable tragedy. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the shooting death of Stephon Clark: “I am disheartened to learn of the shooting of yet another unarmed young man of color, at the hands of law enforcement. Stephon Clark was only 21 years old when he was shot and killed in his grandmother’s backyard by the Sacramento Police Department in Sacramento, California. He leaves behind two small children. Officers claim that Stephon had a gun, but no weapon was found at the scene. Stephon only had a cell phone. “While I am a strong supporter of law enforcement, this incident raises troubling questions about the practices and policies of the Sacramento Police Department. For example, I am concerned that the audio on the police officers’ body cameras was intentionally turned off. This act defeats the purpose of police body cameras, erodes trust within the community and adds greater concern to an already regrettable and preventable tragedy. I encourage a comprehensive review of this matter by all appropriate law enforcement agencies, and I call on the United States Department of Justice to determine whether local police violated the federal civil rights of Stephon Clark. “Stephon and the family that survives him deserve justice. Unfortunately, this incident fits a troubling pattern. While the names of the young men killed and the cities in which they died change, regrettably the critical facts seldom do. “News reports indicate that officers fired 20 shots, striking Stephon’s body multiple times. He laid for six minutes, bleeding to death. As he drew his last breath, officers handcuffed his dying body. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand March 26, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Secures Substantial Funding in FY 2018 Omnibus Spending Bill that Benefits Houston and Harris County Jackson Lee: The Trump budget was dead on arrival because it was out of touch and had no basis in reality. Thereafter, I worked with colleagues in the House and the Senate and reached across the aisle and lifted the mandatory budget caps to nondefense discretionary spending programs, benefitting seniors, transportation and infrastructure, and other important priorities. I am pleased for the provisions of this budget which I believe will strengthen the lives of people in the 18th Congressional District of Texas. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, senior Member of the House Committees on Budget, Judiciary and Homeland Security, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the Consolidated Appropriations Act for FY 2018 passed Thursday by the House: “I am pleased that the omnibus spending bill passed by the House of Representatives and Senate, and signed into law on Friday by the President, includes significant investments for the programs and priorities for which I advocated on behalf of the residents of the 18th Congressional District of Texas. “The Trump budget was dead on arrival because it was out of touch and had no basis in reality. Thereafter, I worked with colleagues in the House and the Senate and reached across the aisle and lifted the mandatory budget caps by $117 billion to fund nondefense discretionary investments benefitting seniors, transportation and infrastructure, and other important priorities. The FY18 Omnibus spending bill includes 21 Jackson Lee amendments that together increase investments in such critical areas as public health, education, flood control, transportation, child nutrition, criminal justice reform, and women’s rights. “Some of the major items included in the Omnibus spending bill of critical importance to my constituents, the people of Texas, and the nation are the following: Transportation and Housing and Urban Development $1.5 billion for National Investments Infrastructure Investments (TIGER) grants program, which is $1 billion more than the FY2017 enacted level $2.25 billion in new funding for highway grants and $800 million in new funding for transit formula grants. $2.64 billion for Capital Investment Grants used to build or expand subway, light rail, and commuter rail transit systems, which is $232 million more than was enacted last year. $14.64 billion for the federal aviation administration, which is $1.59 billion more than was enacted for FY 2017. $200.58 million for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Housing and Urban Development $3.365 billion for Community Development Block Grants which is $305 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $19.6 billion for tenant-based rental assistance. $230 Million for Lead Hazard control and healthy homes, which is more than a 50% increase from the FY2017 enacted level. $678 million for housing for the elderly $229 million for Housing for the disabled $375 million for housing opportunities for people with AIDS $2.513 billion for homeless assistance grants. Labor & Health and Human Services Labor $1.2 billion for 21st Century Community Learning Centers $1.1 billion for Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants $1.7 billion for Job Corps in the total FY 2018 funding Funding to increase maximum Pell Grant award by $175 to $6,095 $1 billion for TRIO, up more than $60 million $350 million for GEAR UP, which is $10 million more than FY 2017 $680 million for AID for Institutional Development and Minority Serving Institutions, more than the FY 2017 level. $350 million relief fund for borrowers to receive public service loan forgiveness $145 million for Apprenticeship Grants, an increase of $50 million. $2.8 billion for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Grants to State, which is an $80 million increase from FY 2017 $1 billion for the Corporation for National and Community Services $240 million for the institutes of Library services Health & Human Services $37.1 billion for the National Institutes of Health, an increase of almost 10% from FY2017 enacted level. $8.0 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is more than a 10% increase from FY 2017. $1.6 billion in discretionary funding for community health centers, which is significantly higher than the FY 2017 level. Combined with $3.8 billion fin mandatory funding, Community Health Centers received $5.4 billion for FY 2018. $20 million for nursing education and training programs, and $15 million for Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education $3.7 billion for programs to respond to the opioid crisis, including prevention, treatment, surveillance and research to develop non-opioid pain medication, behavioral health workforce training, and support for children and families, which is $2.7 billion more than FY 2017 enacted levels. $2.3 billion for the Ryan White Aids program $5.2 for the Childcare and Development Grant, which is $2.37 billion more than the FY 2017 enacted level $9.9 billion for Head Start $897 million for Senior Nutrition programs $3.6 billion for Low-income Home Energy Assistance Program, an increase of $250 million more than the FY 2017 enacted level Commerce, Justice and Science The 2018 omnibus provides for $59.6 billion for the commerce, science and justice division. $2.4 billion overall for state and local law enforcement $275 million overall for COPS office, $54 million more than the FY2017 level. $149.5 million is for the core COPS hiring Program, an increase of $12.5 million above FY 2017 $32 million is provided for anti-heroin task forces. $75 million for comprehensive School Safety Initiative grants, $25 million above the FY 2017 enacted level $447 million for grant programs to address the opioid crisis, an increase of $300 million above the FY 2017 level for activities such as: heroin enforcement task forces, drug courts, prescription drug monitoring, treatment, and, overdose reversal medication $5.9 billion for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), which is $233.9 million higher than FY 2017 enacted level. $1.01 billion is provided for operating expenses for National Weather Service, $34.3 million higher than the FY2017 level. $2.8 billion for Census Bureau, which is $1.3 billion higher than the FY2017 enacted level, to fund urgent preparations for the 2020 Decennial Census. $410 million for the Legal Services Corporation, which is $25 million higher than the FY2017 level. Office of Justice Programs $416 million for the Byrne-JAG program an increase of $10.5 million above the FY2017 level. $492 million for Violence Against Women Prevention and Prosecution grant programs, as increase of $10.5 million above the FY2017 level. $1.29 billion for Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), which is $35.2 million higher than FY2017 level. $7.8 billion for the National Science Foundation (NSF), which is $295 million more than Interior & Environment Interior $97 million for the Historic Preservation fund, $16 million more than the 2017 enacted. $13 million for Civil Rights Initiative grants $5 million for grants to HBCUs $630 million for the Urban Areas Security Initiative, which is $25 million more than the FY2017 enacted level, including: $50 million for the UASI Nonprofit Security Grants Program, which is $25 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $700 million for firefighter equipment and staffing grants, which is $10 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $249.2 million for Pre-disaster Mitigation grants, which is $149.2 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $262.5 million for Flood Mapping, which is $85 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $120 million for the Emergency Food and Shelter Program, which is equal to the FY2017 enacted level. Environment $425 million for the land and Water Conservation fund, which is $25 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $1.043 billion for the Smithsonian Institution, $180 million more than 2017 enacted. $2 million to support the Women’s Initiative. $152.8 million each for the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for Humanities, which is $3 million more than the 2017 enacted levels. $8.821 billion for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which is $763 million more than the 2017 enacted level. $1.693 billion for the Clean Water Fund, which is $300 million above the 2017 enacted level. $1.163 billion for the Safe Drinking Water Fund, $300 million above the 2017 enacted level. $50 million for three new grant programs authorized by the WIIN Act to address lead in drinking water, including $20 million for a Voluntary School Lead Testing grant program. Energy & Water Development $2.3 billion for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, which is $231 million more than the FY2017 enacted level, $1.2 billion above the House bill, and $1.68 billion above the budget request. $248 million for activities to modernize the electric grid and defend the U.S. energy sector against cyber and other attacks, which is $18 million more than the 2017 enacted level and $128 million above the budget request. $6.8 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers, which is $789 million that the FY2017 enacted level and $1.8 billion above the budget request. $35 million for continued implementation and expansion of the Sexual Assault Special Victim’s Counsel Program. $200 million in OCO for Ukraine, which is $50 million more than the 2017 enacted level. Homeland Security $7.7 million to hire 328 additional CBP customs officers. $7.9 billion for the Transportation Security Administration, which is $114.6 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $10.4 billion for the Coast Guard, which is $1.6 billion more than the FY2017 enacted level. $507 million for the State Homeland Security Program (SHSGP), which is $40 million more than the FY2017 enacted level, including: $10 million for a new SHSGP Nonprofit Security Grant Program. $12.3 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including $7.4 billion for major disasters under the BCA cap adjustment. The total is $899.5 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. Financial Services & Government $142 million for terrorism and Financial Intelligence, which is $19 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $7.6 billion in discretionary and mandatory funding for the Judiciary, which is $194 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $721 million for the District of Columbia, which is $35 million less than the FY2017 enacted level and $17 million more than the President’s request. $701 million for the Small Business Administration, which is $186 million less than the FY2017 enacted level. Entrepreneurial Development Programs are funded at $247 million, $2 million more than FY2017 enacted level. $10.1 million in base funding for the Election Assistance Commission, which is $0.5 million more the FY2017 enacted level; and an additional $380 million for new election security state grants. Military Construction/Defense Defense $14.135 million above the request for Historically Black Colleges and Universities/Minority Serving Institutions Basic Research Programs $34.4 billion for Defense Health Requirements. $359 million for cancer research; $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research. $130 million for breast cancer research (an increase of $10 million from FY 2017). $100 million for prostate cancer (an increase of $10 million from FY 2017) Agriculture $1.716 billion for Food for Peace, a program that has helped feed over 3 billion people worldwide since its inception. $28 million for the Summer EBT program, which helps underprivileged children eat during summer vacation. As much as 1.8 billion more in additional water and wastewater infrastructure funding through loans and grants. $6.175 billion in discretionary funding in for Special Supplemental Nutrition for Women, Infants, and Children, which is sufficient to meet expected need based on current estimates. No cuts to Supplemental Nut rition Assistance Programs mandatory appropriations. State and Foreign Operations $54 billion in total funding, which includes: $8.7 billion for global health $6.1 billion for foreign military financing, including $3.1 billion for military to aid to Israel, which would fully fund the request in the Memorandum of Understanding. $7.645 for Humanitarian and disaster relief. $1.35 billion in total funding for the operating expenses of the U.S. Agency for International Development which is $9 million more than the FY2017 enacted level. $6 billion for Embassy Security and Diplomatic Security, which is the same as the FY 2017 enacted level. The omnibus bill provides the full budget request for all mental services and programs of $8.4 billion for the Veterans Administration, including an additional $10 million provided for the Veterans Crisis Line, an additional $22 million above the request provided for the National Centers for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and $196 million for suicide prevention outreach. I am pleased to note that the omnibus spending bill takes measures to respect women’s health. It does not include any policy riders which would have blocked funding for Planned Parenthood clinics and funding for Title X family planning clinics. Provisions in the House bill that would have codified ICE’s current abortion services policies for detainees are also not included. The omnibus also does not include any policy riders attacking the Affordable Care Act or a rider prohibiting the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from moving forward with a policy change aimed at collecting employee gender and race information from employers. Lastly, the Omnibus does not include a provision that prohibits the use of funds to carry out the District’s Reproductive Health or include the global gag rule, which prohibits organizations that provide abortion services or refer or counsel patients on the topic from receiving federal funding. This spending bill includes report language clarifying that Section 210, the dickey amendment does not prohibit the CDC from awarding grants to study gun violence. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand March 19, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement On the Firing of Former Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe Jackson Lee: “The circumstances around the termination of Andrew McCabe, former Deputy Director of the FBI, are troubling to say the least. This action is no coincidence, and appears part of a larger pattern to discredit or interfere with potential witnesses in the Mueller Probe, and part of a larger pattern to obstruct justice.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement on the firing of Former Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe. “Mr. McCabe was a member of the FBI for over two decades. During his service to the Bureau, he worked as a street agent, and eventually a supervisor of the New York field office. I would note that he has considerable experience investigating Russian organized crime in the United States, was a former SWAT team member, and worked on the investigation following the Boston Marathon Bombing. “Following the termination of James Comey, Mr. McCabe became the focus of relentless public ridicule by the president, presumably because at a May 2017 hearing of the House Intelligence Committee, Mr. McCabe indicated that he would corroborate Mr. Comey’s accounts of conversations Mr. Comey had with the President. “Mr. McCabe’s role in the 2016 presidential election has been the focus of an investigation by the Inspector General of the DOJ. Before the report was made public, and after Mr. McCabe agreed to retire his commission in order to preserve his pension, the attorney general terminated Mr. McCabe. The circumstances around the termination of Andrew McCabe, former Deputy Director of the FBI, are troubling to say the least. This action is no coincidence, and appears part of a larger pattern to discredit or interfere with potential witnesses in the Mueller Probe, and part of a larger pattern to obstruct justice. “In my capacity as a Senior Member of both the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, I have had occasion to observe Mr. McCabe and assess his truthfulness, including in closed-door fora. While we may not always see eye-to-eye on all issues, Mr. McCabe struck me as a model of probity, and the circumstances surrounding his termination are suspicious and warrant further inquiry. This incident, like many of the developments in this investigation, merit investigation by the House Judiciary Committee. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
06.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin Chand March 15, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Regarding Issuance of Subpoenas to Trump Organization Relating to Russia and Other Matters Related to the Special Counsel Mueller’s Investigation Jackson Lee: “Today’s news suggests that the Special Counsel is moving inexorably toward the truth Russia’s subversion activities during the 2016 election cycle and the extent to which the Trump campaign It is also clear that Trump is desperate to terminate the Special Counsel’s investigation, which makes it imperative for Congress immediately to enact legislation protecting the integrity and independence of the Special Counsel’s investigation.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement on the news that Special Counsel Robert Mueller has issued subpoenas demanding production of documents relating to Russia and the Trump Organization activities: “Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation of Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election has now reached inside Trump Tower. The subpoenas issued by the Special Counsel to the Trump Organization demanding the production of document relating to Russia and other matter related to the investigation indicate that the Special Counsel is moving inexorably towards uncovering the truth about Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the extent to which the Trump campaign may have been involved in those efforts. “Since it is well known that the President is desperately wants the Special Counsel’s investigation to be scuttled, the revelation that the walls of Trump Tower have been breached underscores the urgency for Congress immediately to take up and pass H.R. 3654, the “Special Counsel Independence Protection Act,” which insulates the Special Counsel from arbitrary removal and interference by the President. “This new turn in the Special Counsel’s investigation suggests that Trump may very well act to fire Special Counsel Mueller and may be getting closer to doing so. Last summer, the president indicated that the Special Counsel would cross a “red line” if his investigation touched on the Trump family finances. And we know from the public boasting of Donald Trump Jr. boasted that ‘Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets…we see a lot of our money come in from Russia.’ “The President has been saber-rattling about firing Special Counsel Mueller since right after he fired James Comey, the former FBI Director. In addition, it has been reported that the President pressured his White House Counsel and others to take action to end the Special Counsel’s Russia investigation. And, of course, the President has not ruled out removing Attorney General Sessions and replacing him with Attorney General who could oversee the Russia investigation and replace the Special Counsel. “For these reasons, Congress must act swiftly to enact H.R. 3654, the “Special Counsel Independence Protection Act.” Specifically, this legislation which I introduced insulates the Special Counsel from interference and arbitrary action of the President by requiring that a Special Counsel may be removed only upon the following conditions: The attorney general files an action in federal district court in Washington, D.C., and files a contemporaneous action with the House Judiciary Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee; and A panel of three federal judges sitting in Washington, D.C., finds removal appropriate based on a finding of misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest or other good cause. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
05.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Robin K. Chand May 4, 2018 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges a Reversal of the Decision to End Temporary Protected Status for Hondurans Living in the United States and calls on Congress to pass H.R. 4253, the American Promise Act Jackson Lee: “The Trump Administration’s ill-conceived decision to cancel Temporary Protected Status for Honduran nationals threatens to tear thousands of families apart while undermining efforts to promote stability in Central America.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement about the Trump Administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status for nearly 57,000 Honduran nationals who will now be forced to return home: “The decision to end Temporary Protected Status for 57,000 Honduran nationals, including more than 8,000 in Texas, is insensitive, appalling and offensive. Forcing them to return home is inhumane and stands diametrically inapposite to our country’s longstanding informal edict: to welcome the tired, poor and huddled masses. I am troubled by this deeply thoughtless and cruel decision. Hondurans living in the United States have been contributing members of his country and have been living in this country for an average of 22 years. Over the coming decade, this decision will cost the country over $10 billion in American gross domestic product. It will likely induce a refugee crisis, fueled by shortages of food, housing—all in the face of escalating gang violence. In a certain respect, the decision to invite a needless crisis is consistent with the experience of this president. I urge the White House to reconsider this ill-conceived decision and call on my colleagues to pass H.R. 4253, the American Promise Act, and provide those in the United States under TPS to remain in the country and be given an opportunity to pursue a path to citizenship. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.12.2017	Press Statement FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell October 12, 2017 202-225-3816 Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces Critical Disaster Food Stamp Program Soon to Reopen Jackson Lee: “While we continue to fight for more funding in Washington, it is imperative that all branches of government speak with one voice so that those still suffering from Hurricane Harvey can get the help they need.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement about significant progress towards reopening the D-SNAP program: “Earlier this month just after the D-SNAP program in Houston ended, I immediately sent a letter urging the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to work with me to give struggling Hurricane Harvey survivors more time to obtain the food assistance they so desperately need. I knew that with all the long lines at Disaster Recovery Centers throughout my district and elsewhere, people were suffering. “Fortunately, the USDA was very accommodating and agreed to resume operations of the program for an additional three days. However, the Harris County took longer than I feel is reasonable in a disaster to identify the requisite sites. “That is why I am pleased to announce that authorities are now setting up a site at Alexander Deussen Park, located at 12303 Sonia Road. We expect the location to be up and running as soon as possible. In the meantime, I will continue my work to secure more sites because people are hurting. “Houston is still confronting disaster with businesses closed and people out of work. While we fight for funding in Washington, it is imperative that all branches of government collaborate to get people the help they need. That is what is happening now, but it should have been sooner.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.11.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 11, 2017 Contact: Rucks Russell 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Leads New Push For Bail Reform Jackson Lee: “It is time for bail reform, and time for us to allow individuals to continue to contribute to society and not punish them for their lack of income, by costing them their jobs, housing and family.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement about the Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act of 2017: “In America, justice is supposed to be blind, impartial and objective. But unfortunately, over 450,000 Americans sit in jail not because they have been found guilty, but rather because they are unable to post bail. Although our justice system is designed to treat all people equally, far too often this is not the case. “That is why I am pleased to be an original co-sponsor of the “Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act of 2017, which encourages states to replace the use of cash bonds as a means of securing pretrial release. It is time for bail reform, and time for us to allow individuals to continue to contribute to society and not punish them for their lack of income, by costing them their jobs, housing and family. “Low-income communities are disproportionally affected by the cost of high bail bonds. The Supreme Court ruled in Bearden v. Georgia in 1983 that the Constitution prohibits “punishing a person for his poverty.” For example, Kalief Browder, a 16-year-old young man, was arrested on charges of stealing a backpack. The judge then set bail at $3,000, which his family unfortunately, could not afford. “Mr. Browder was sent to jail on Rikers Island for three years while awaiting trial. The charges were dismissed, but the trauma experienced during solitary confinement caused Mr. Bowder to hang himself in 2015. Clearly, something is very wrong. That is why in addition to sponsoring the PISA, I introduced “Kalief’s Law” earlier this year to ensure we never forget what can happen when we leave poor people in solitary confinement. “We can do better, and we must do better to prevent tragedies such as this and others that shame our criminal justice system. It is time for bail reform, and the Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act is a crucial step in that direction.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations and a Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security.
10.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell October 2, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Deplores Horrific Las Vegas Shooting Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “This is a tragic and horrific attack on innocent people. My condolences and prayers go out to the victims and all those affected by this appalling act of violence. I am afraid this another dastardly act of domestic terrorism.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement on the mass shooting in Nevada that claimed the lives of over fifty and injured more than four hundred at a country music concert. “Today, we wake up to the news that what is being called the worst mass shooting in our nations’ recent history, has claimed more than 50 lives and injured hundreds more. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, the first responders and the people of Nevada. May God bless them all. “As we pray for the injured, those who lost their lives, and their families, it is imperative that we begin to investigate and recognize the existence of domestic terrorism and address it in order to save lives. Finally, I would like to thank the first responders for their heroic work, and the good Samaritans who helped in any way they could. Together, they helped saved lives.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
10.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell October 1, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces Opening of Disaster Recovery Center in Southeast Houston Jackson Lee: “This Disaster Recover Center will serve the critical needs of residents impacted by Hurricane Harvey, seeking to recover from the catastrophe and get their lives back on track.” HOUSTON, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement announcing the opening of a Disaster Recovery Center in southeast Houston: “Ever since the devastation of Hurricane Harvey, I have been fighting to bring additional resources to neighborhoods impacted by the storm through the establishment of Disaster Recovery Centers. DRCs serve as a conduit linking victims of the storm with the crucial services they need. “That is why I am pleased to announce the establishment of a Disaster Recovery Center at Good Hope Missionary Baptist Church, located at 3015 North MacGregor Way in Southeast Houston. This DRC, which will open its doors on Monday, October 2nd, 2017, will support an area of Houston that was hit particularly hard by the hurricane. “These centers are needed to meet the ongoing demands of residents seeking to recover and make their lives whole again. In addition to bringing more DRCs to neighborhoods, I am working with local, state and federal officials to extend benefits under the Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or D-SNAP which help feed families in need.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell September 14, 2017 202-225-3816 Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Offers Motion to Recommit to Protect Dreamers and Stop Funding For the Border Wall Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “Instead of the closed and angry fist of walls, roundups, and detention, we should choose instead to extend an open and loving hand to help the hopeless, homeless, and helpless.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement about her passionate effort on the floor of the House to protect Dreamers and prevent funding for the border wall: “For more than two centuries, America has stood as a beacon of hope and freedom to people around the world. Immigrants have flocked to her shores seeking opportunity and a better life. That is why I was proud to lead the fight to amend H.R. 3354, the “Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of FY2018.”’ “H.R. 3354 provides billions of dollars to expand ICE detention facilities and begin work on the border wall. I believe both efforts and are wrong-sighted and ultimately against our values as a people. “My Motion to Recommit sought to transfer $2.4 billion to the FEMA Pre-Disaster Mitigation account, offset by eliminating the $1.6 billion funding for the President’s border wall and $840 million in new funds for ICE to be used for an additional 10,000 detention beds and facilities. When we listen to the better angels of our nature, we know in our hearts this is the right and just -- and the American -- thing to do. “I was an eyewitness to the devastation inflicted on Southeast Texas and Louisiana which struck on August 25, 2017 by Hurricane Harvey. My colleagues from the great State of Florida and the U.S. Virgin Islands are bearing similar witness to the terrible destruction caused earlier this week by Hurricane Irma. “More than 13,000 people were rescued in the Houston area by the U.S. Coast Guard, state and local first responders, and civilian volunteers risking danger to help their friends, neighbors, and persons they did not even know. One of those heroes was a Dreamer, Alonso Guillen, a man who came to Texas from Mexico as a teenager, and who died when his boat capsized while he was rescuing survivors of the flooding. “I believe we do not need to waste money building a wall to prevent river crossings on the southern border. We do need more pre-disaster funding to help people get across the rivers running through the streets of our cities and towns when hurricanes strike unleashing floods. We do not need another 10,000 beds in ICE detention centers; but we do need more than 10,000 beds in evacuation shelters. “Unfortunately, my efforts and those of my House Democratic colleagues fell short. Despite the amendment’s defeat, we will continue to advocate for the rights of Dreamers while working to strengthen this nation’s immigrant-welcoming tradition. Instead of the closed and angry fist of walls, roundups, and detention, we should choose instead to extend an open and loving hand to help the hopeless, homeless, and helpless. ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell September 14, 2017 202-225-3816 House Passes Jackson Lee Amendment That Helps the Parents of Deceased Children Whose Identities Have Been Stolen Jackson Lee: “Identity thieves have sunk to disturbing levels of cruelty and heartlessness by praying on deceased children and compounding the anguish of their grieving parents.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement about the passage of the Jackson Lee Amendment, which helps the parents of deceased children whose identities have been stolen: “Nearly all of us understand the importance of safeguarding our Social Security numbers, but after someone dies Social Security numbers are published on a national online registry called the Master Death List. As a result, experts say the identities of close to 500 thousand deceased persons are stolen in America every year. “Alarmingly, many of the victims are deceased children, worsening the pain of parents who are already confronting an unbearable loss. That is why I offered an amendment to H.R. 3354, the “Make America Secure and Prosperous Act FY2018. “My amendment increases identify theft casework funding allocated to the Taxpayer Advocate Service Program by $500,000. This will help to ensure the IRS has adequate resources to assist parents of a deceased child whose Social Security Number was stolen by tax cheats and used on a federal tax return to receive an Earned Income Tax Credit. “The need for the Jackson Lee Amendment is illustrated by the story of Alexis Agin who was just 4 years old when she died of a brain tumor in 2011. As her parents grieved, someone stole Alexis’ identity to commit tax fraud. Alexis’ parents did not discover the crime until they filed their taxes. “The sad fact is Alexis’ parents are not alone—they were one of at least 14 other parents whose children died of cancer and learned that their child’s Social Security number had been stolen by tax thieves. The perpetrators typically claim that a dead person is their dependent when they file tax returns. “I am pleased the Jackson Lee Amendment won overwhelming bipartisan support in the House, passing by a vote of 265 to 143. I applaud my colleagues for adopting this vital piece of legislation, which will help to alleviate the pain and suffering of parents forced to cope with the unimaginable loss of a child.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell September 12, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces Help For Senior Citizens In Debris Cleanup CALL 211! Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “I continue to walk my district in areas devastated by Hurricane Harvey. Many of the damaged properties belong to seniors who are in desperate need of help to remove sheetrock and other debris in order to ready their homes for repair. Without help, the mold will take over and their homes will be destroyed for good.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement about critical help being offered to seniors who are struggling to recover from Hurricane Harvey: “In the aftermath of the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey, I have remained very concerned about our seniors. That is why I have called for the creation of a special senior citizen liaison to interface with FEMA, and insure seniors get the resources they need. “I have seen firsthand the impact this catastrophic storm has had on seniors’ lives. But now, by dialing 211, seniors will have access to officials who will be able to respond and get them the help they need immediately.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell September 11, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on the Anniversary of 9/11 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the 16th anniversary of 9/11: “Sixteen years ago, the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, changed our world. Today, we reflect on the ways that we have changed in the wake of that dark day; we reflect on both heroism and mistakes, on brave sacrifices and on the deaths of so many we loved. “But some things, those deepest and closest to what we are as a nation, have not changed. We still stand united in memory of the dead. We still stand in awe of the heroic sacrifices that graced that day, and so many since. We still stand in resolve to defend our nation and its most sacred ideals: ideals like freedom of conscience, the rule of law, and religious tolerance. “There are many who have been born into a world in which 9/11 has to be told to them as opposed to them having experienced it. But we mark this memorial in order to reclaim some of the unity that was ours on that day—so that, whether or not we were there, whether or not we lost those we love, we can take time from our lives to comfort one another, to reflect with one another, and to teach one another. “I was in the Capitol when the plane hit the Pentagon. It is a day etched in my memory and ingrained in my conscience. Like so many others who recall the horror and the heroes of that day, I will never forget. “As long as we live, we will tell the stories of the persons who died and were injured and of their families who suffered on that fatal day and also of the first responders, including firefighters and police officers, who sacrificed on that day. We will tell the story of the heroism of the passengers of United Flight 93. “We will tell the story of the troops who have served and are serving under our flag, far from home, and of the thousands who have lost their lives in our nation’s service. And we will renew our resolve: our resolve to defend America from those who mean it harm with all of the tools at our disposal; our resolve to the principles that give our nation its meaning and mission; and our resolve to remain, in the face of all threats, a fearless, strong, and united people.” “As Sandy Dahl, the wife of United 93 pilot Jason Dahl said after losing her husband, “if we learn nothing else from this tragedy, we learn that life is short and there is no time for hate.” May Sandy’s words forever resonate in our collective hearts and bind us together as Americans.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
09.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell September 5, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls For Emergency Protection Provision In The Continuing Resolution To Protect DACA Status Individuals Jackson Lee: “I have heard firsthand of the enormous fear from DACA status individuals, the institutions they work for and their schools. Dreamers have had their American dreams yanked out from under them by this President, marking a sad and shameful point in our nation’s history.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations issued the following statement condemning the President’s decision to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, and calling on Congress to enact an emergency protection provision for DACA status individuals: “President Trump’s decision to rescind the DACA program is yet another cruel and heartless act by an Administration that has openly declared war on immigrants. As a result, more than 800 thousand of our nation’s dreamers hang in limbo, unable to realize the American dream of a safer home and a more prosperous future. “With this announcement, it now falls upon Congress to take swift and immediate corrective action to protect these young men and women who are openly contributing to the fabric of this great nation. Dreamers need to know they are safe, and I call on Congress to enact an emergency DACA protection provision in the continuing resolution. “To date, DACA has not been ruled unconstitutional and Trump’s order has not been judged by the courts. During this deliberative period, Dreamers should not be subjected to ICE raids and confrontations and the President should make it clear that the current DACA policy remains in effect. “Mr. Trump’s decision cruel, mean-spirited and heartless. We are just beginning to recover from Hurricane Harvey and people who are suffering cannot take this added stress. I have heard firsthand of the enormous fear from DACA status individuals, the institutions they work for and their schools. Dreamers have had their American dreams yanked out from under them by this President, marking a sad and shameful point in our nation’s history.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
08.16.2017	August 15, 2017 202-225-3816 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee “Party of Lincoln Has Crashed" “The remarks of the President today will live in infamy and will shame for all eternity his tenure in office, however long or short that may be. Never before in history has a President of the United States, the nation that led the alliance that defeated Nazism and fascism in the greatest conflict in world history, ever publicly defended or tried to normalize neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, or White Supremacists. That long and unbroken precedent ended today with the President’s obscene and shameful attempt to draw a moral equivalence between the neo-Nazis and bigots who descended upon the quiet, peaceful town of Charlottesville with their hateful ideology on the one hand, and anti-racist protestors on the other. “One group advocated hate, division, and racial superiority; the other affirmed racial unity and the equality of all persons ordained by the Creator. One group idolizes the most evil war criminal in human history; the other shares and is committed to making real the dream of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. One group was animated by the forces of darkness and hate; the other inspired by the light of reason and love. The difference between these two opposing ideas and ideals is so clear, so stark and vivid, that it could only go unrecognized by the morally blind, which Donald Trump has revealed himself to be. “At Gettysburg, President Lincoln said ‘the world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it will never forget what they did here.’ Nor will we ever forget what happened in Charlottesville, the home of my law school alma mater, on Saturday, August 12, 2017. And we will always remember Heather Heyer, a true patriot who was murdered standing up for what is right by a domestic terrorist who rejects the American way of life. My thoughts and prayers are also with the families and loved ones of all of those injured by that act of domestic terrorism and those of Lt. H. Jay Cullen and Trooper-Pilot Berke M.M. Bates of the Virginia State Police who were assisting public safety efforts when their helicopter crashed, killing them both. I especially wish a full and speedy recovery to Natalie Romero who was seriously injured in the crash that took Ms. Heyer’s life. Ms. Romero is an undergraduate student at the University of Virginia and a graduate of Bellaire High School (the same high school attended by son and daughter). “Our magnificent Constitution guarantees and protects the right of neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, white nationalists, and other like-minded groups to peaceably assemble and advocate their white supremacy and separatist beliefs. But that same Constitution provides an equal right to those who wish to protest their hateful ideology. That the Constitution protects the right to demonstrate in both cases does not mean that the causes espoused by both groups are equally meritorious. As every president from Franklin Roosevelt through Barack Obama clearly understood and affirmed, they are not. Civil action in support of equality and justice is worthy of commendation. Civil action in support of a white supremacist ideology is worthy only of condemnation. If the President cannot recognize this difference, it is time for a different president.”
07.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell July 10, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement The House Judiciary Committee Must Do Its Job Jackson Lee: “In the wake of the shocking admission by Donald Trump Jr., the House Judiciary Committee must assume its Constitutional charge.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement calling for the House Judiciary Committee to launch hearings into the activities of President Trump, whose Presidential campaign remains the focus of investigations surrounding Russia’s collusion and interference into the United States’ 2016 presidential election: “According to published reports, Donald Trump Jr. admits meeting with a Russian lawyer with ties to the Kremlin during the 2016 election campaign, with the promise of obtaining potentially damaging information on his father’s opponent, Hillary Clinton. This shocking admission cuts to the heart of the matter surrounding the Trump campaign’s alleged collusion with Russian officials to win the election. “Whether or not any compromising information on Mrs. Clinton was actually revealed at the meeting is beside the point: the fact that there was even a willingness in the Trump campaign to accept help from the Russians is damning on its own. Trump Jr’s admission that he met with Russians to aid the Trump campaign is the latest in a long list of disturbing revelations regarding the extent of Russian interference in our election process. “History will not look kindly on the House Judiciary Committee’s continued abdication of its oversight responsibility. It is unclear how many more disturbing but inevitable revelations of potentially illegal activities will be made before the House Judiciary Committee acts.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
07.12.2017	For Immediate Release Contact: Rucks Russell July 11, 2017 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces $241,990 United States Department of Health and Human Services Grant Awarded to Un­iversity of Houston To Support Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolic Research Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the University of Houston has been awarded a $241,990 grant from the United States Department of Health and Human Services: “I am pleased to announce that the United States Department of Health and Human Services has awarded a grant in the amount of $241,990 to the University of Houston to conduct Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolic Research. This grant will enable the University of Houston to continue to provide cutting edge research to understand and help mediate "painful bladder syndrome,” otherwise known as Interstitial Cystitis. The research that will be conducted will enhance our understanding of women’s health issues and create new interventions to help women who suffer from this chronic condition. “I am a strong supporter of the grants awarded by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, including its Division of The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases which provides services to institutions that seek to make discoveries to change the course of medicine. “I congratulate The University of Houston for winning this grant and thank the United States Department of Health and Human Services for recognizing the University’s excellence and continued to strive for innovation. I am proud to have advocated and supported the legislation that authorized the funding that made this grant possible. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
07.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell July 11, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Newly Released Emails Prove There Is Nowhere Left To Hide: Trump Campaign Colluded With Russians Jackson Lee: “The emails reveal the willingness in the Trump campaign to accept help from the Russians to subvert our electoral process and cheat the American people.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement about newly-released emails that show Donald Trump Jr. met with a Russian attorney during the 2016 presidential election hoping to obtain damaging information on Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton: “After months of denials, deflections, and obfuscation, there now exists what amounts to a smoking gun tying the Trump campaign to Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Newly-released emails prove Donald Trump Jr. met with a Russian attorney hoping to obtain damaging information on Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. “Whether or not any compromising information on Secretary Clinton was actually revealed at the meeting is immaterial. The emails reveal the eagerness of Trump campaign senior officials to accept help from the Russians to subvert our electoral process and cheat the American people; disgraceful behavior bordering on treason. “The continued inaction by the House Judiciary Committee to investigate leaves a huge missing component to restoring our constitutional order. How many more disturbing but inevitable revelations of potentially illegal activities will be made before the House Judiciary Committee acts?” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
05.26.2017	For Immediate Release Contact: Rucks Russell May 25, 2015 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces $275,500 grant awarded to Lone Star College – North Harris under the UPWARD BOUND PROGRAM Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement announcing today that Lone Star College – North Harris has been awarded a $257,500 grant to implement the Upward Bound Program: “The Upward Bound Program provides first-generation, disadvantaged, low-income students with the skills and motivation necessary to complete a rigorous program of secondary education and to enter into and successfully complete a degree in postsecondary education. I am pleased to announce today that Lone Star College – North Harris has been awarded a $257,500 grant to implement this outstanding program. “The grant to the Upward Bound Program will greatly impact individuals in this community from disadvantaged backgrounds. UBP will help students overcome obstacles through the use of college resources leading to an increase in academic performance and providing a smooth transition to college. “Creating opportunities for disadvantaged students and providing them with the knowledge and tools to excel in academics has always been one of my major priorities. I am thrilled that through the awarding of this grant, Lone Star College – North Harris will be better able to assist students in our community to excel in their academic endeavors.” “I thank the Upward Bound Program for awarding this grant to Lone Star College – North Harris and I am proud to have supported the legislation that authorized the program that made this grant possible.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
05.26.2017	For Immediate Release Contact: Rucks Russell May 25, 2017 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces $426,966.00 Grant to Texas Southern University For the Upward Bound Program Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that Texas Southern University has been selected to receive funding under the Upward Bound Program. The grant will be in the amount of $426,966.00 for the first budget period, and it is anticipated that the grant will be for a total of 5 years. “I am delighted to announce that Texas Southern University is being awarded a grant for the Upward Bound Program. The grant will help the Federal TRIO Programs (TRIO) and student services programs, which are designed to identify and provide services for individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds.” “I would like to thank the U.S. Department of Education for recognizing the value in supporting a program such as the Upward Bound Program. The eight programs that it supports are targeted to serve and assist low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities to progress through the academic pipeline from middle school to post-baccalaureate programs. It will drastically and positively change the lives of many young people, and I look forward to seeing it move forward.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
05.26.2017	For Immediate Release Contact: Rucks Russell May 25, 2017 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces $497,413 grant awarded to the University of Houston-Downtown under the Upward Bound Program Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement announcing today that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded the University of Houston-Downtown a $497,413 grant to implement its Upward Bound Program to provide students with the skills and motivation necessary to enter and succeed in a program of postsecondary education: “I am pleased to announce this considerable grant awarded to the University of Houston-Downtown, which will greatly impact individuals in this community from disadvantaged backgrounds. This program will help students overcome obstacles through the use of college resources leading to an increase in academic performance and providing a smooth transition to college. “Creating opportunities for disadvantaged students and providing them with the knowledge and tools to excel in academics has always been one of my major priorities. I am pleased that the University of Houston-Downtown has been awarded a $497,413 grant to assist students in our community in their academic endeavors. “I thank the Department of Education for awarding this grant to the University of Houston-Downtown and I am proud to have supported the legislation that authorized the program that made this grant possible.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
03.07.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Rucks Russell March 7, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls GOP’s “MakeAmericaSickAgain” Plan a Disaster for Families Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “Not only does this plan not provide insurance to all Americans as the President promised, but it would actually knock millions of people off their health insurance plans and bring misery to hard working families struggling to make ends meet.” Washington, DC- Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, ripped into the Republican’s health care plan for coming up woefully short on providing the kind of coverage the President promised. “With America finally on the mend thanks to the expansion of coverage through the Affordable Care Act, the Republican plan to repeal and replace the ACA threatens to turn the clock back by making America sick again. “For seven years, GOP lawmakers said they had a better idea. The President even promised to a plan to provide insurance for everybody. But the dangerous details of this legislation were hidden from the public. “The Republican plan will kick millions of Americans off their health insurance plans and force others to pay more for less. This plan is a prescription for misery and spells disaster for hard-working families struggling to make ends meet in the face of spiraling health care costs.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is a Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. The House Committee on Homeland Security serves the cybersecurity needs of critical infrastructure owners and operators. Congresswoman Jackson Lee serves on the Subcommittees on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection, and Counterterrorism and Intelligence. She is the current Ranking Member on the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, which gives her a portfolio that covers the breath of issues including national and criminal justice issues that touch upon cybersecurity.
01.30.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing January 30, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Introduces USA Values Act to Protect Religious Liberty and Stop Trump Administration From Denying Humanitarian Relief To Refugees Lawfully Entitled to Enter The United States Jackson Lee: “I have introduced the USA Values Act (H.R. 735) which will invalidate the President’s discriminatory Executive Order which has the effect and intent of excluding persons whose religious faith is Muslim from entering the United States. My USA Values Act affirms our nation’s core beliefs regarding religious freedom and equal protection and treatment under law.” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees today released the following statement after introducing H.R. 735, the Universal Security of American Values Act of 2017 (USA Values Act), which will invalidate the discriminatory Executive Order issued by the President banning visitors and refugees from certain countries from entering the United States simply because they exercise their right to religious liberty by adherence to the Muslim faith: “The United States of America is a country founded by persons escaping religious persecution and freedom of worship has been a bedrock national value since the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock in 1620. It is no coincidence that the first of the amendments comprising the Bill of Rights protects inviolate the free exercise of religion. “Neither the Constitution nor the First Amendment recognizes an exception to the free exercise of religion in the case of persons of the Muslim faith. The executive order issued by the President last Friday is discriminatory Executive Order because it has the effect and intent of excluding from the United States those persons from predominately Muslim countries whose religious faith is Muslim. This is the type of invidious discrimination that our Constitution, laws, customs, and traditions do not countenance. “That is why I have introduced H.R. 735, the Universal Security of American Values Act of 2017 (USA Values Act of 2017), which declares the Executive Order issued by the President on January 27, 2017 to be null and void and of no force and legal effect. In addition, USA Values Act prohibits the issuance or implementation of any Executive Order that has the effect of abridging religious liberty or any of the privileges and immunities guaranteed under the Constitution or laws of the United States. “As Americans we are best when we are true to the values we hold dear, beginning with fidelity to the Constitution and the laws of the United States. The executive order, which represents the President’s attempt to make good on his pledge to impose a ban on Muslims from entering our country, is a radical departure from the values, principles, and practices that heretofore have made America the envy of the world. “Former president Barack Obama ‘fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith and religion.’ The former president is right, the current president is wrong and I call upon the President to rescind this discriminatory order immediately.” “Arbitrarily excluding Muslim visitors to our country will not make us safer and makes a mockery of our reputation as the world’s most welcoming nation. The USA Values Act, which affirms the nation’s core values, complements the ‘Statute of Liberty Values Act’ (SOLVE Act), which bars ethnic and religious discrimination against refugees that was also introduced today by my colleague, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren of California, and sponsored by me and more than 125 Members of the House.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
01.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing January 25, 2017 202-225-3816 PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE STATEMENT REGARDING PRESIDENT’S EXECUTIVE ORDER REGARDING ADMISSION OF REFUGEES AND HIS RECKLESS HOMELAND SECURITY POLICIES Jackson Lee: “The proposed wall does not provide a barrier that will provide total prevention of illegal entries into the United States” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees today released the following statement in response to the executive order issued today by the President regarding admission of refugees to the United States: “I call upon the President to heed the counsel of Texas Impact, urging him to reaffirm our nation’s commitment to welcome those displaced by oppression and injustice. The President should set an example for states to follow by refraining from statements and actions designed to frighten and divide our people. Texas became the second most populous state, and Houston the nation’s fourth largest and most diverse city, by welcoming persons of all backgrounds and cultures, races and creeds, religions and ethnicities, particularly those fleeing religious persecution and political oppression. “As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Ranking Member on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, my priorities have focused on protecting our homeland and national security in a manner that keeps our nation safe but affirms our national values and principles. “The shameful rhetoric and conduct of certain Texas public officials undermines America's moral leadership in the world, embarrasses our state, and does nothing to make our country safer. The United States already has in place the world's most rigorous screening process for refugees seeking asylum. The critical features of this 21-step process require that every applicant for asylum must: 1. register with, and be pre-screened by, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; 2. provide background information, including what caused him or her to flee their home country (a ready means of comparing information provided by more than one million refugees to further verify the validity of the information provided); 3. meet one of five legal qualifications: threat of violence based on race, religion or faith or national origin; political beliefs; or membership in a targeted social group; 4. undergo a rigorous background check during which investigators fact-check the refugee's biography to ensure consistency with published or documented reports of events such as bombings or other violence; 5. be subjected to biometric tests conducted by the Defense Department, in conjunction with other federal agencies (the U.S. military has an extensive biometric data base on Iraqis from its time in Iraq); and 6. Sit for intensive in-person interviews, which may takes a minimum of 18-24 to conduct and complete. “In addition, intelligence and law enforcement agencies have over the past several years established and perfected an intensive form of screening for Syrians called the "Syrian Enhanced Review," which involves a vetting even more intensive and intrusive that applied for other asylum seekers. “Before coming to Congress, I served on the Board of Interfaith Ministries for Greater Houston, which provides refugee services and, in conjunction with the U.S. State Department, Episcopal Migration Ministries and Church World Service, resettles legal refugees fleeing their homeland in fear of political, social or religious persecution. Interfaith Ministries for Greater - 3 - Houston helps refugees from around the world make new lives in Texas and enhances America’s reputation as a haven for the oppressed. I applaud the work of organizations like Interfaith Ministries and Texas Impact and call upon my fellow Texans to join me in renouncing all attempts to demonize refugees who may happen to be Muslim. The world's mightiest nation must not be afraid to show compassion and provide sanctuary to some of the world's most vulnerable persons, including Syrian mothers, children, and seniors.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations
01.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing January 25, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Joined By House Democrats, Calls Upon Justice Department to Conduct Thorough Investigation of Credible Allegations of Voter Fraud in All 50 States to Determine Whether Reported Outcomes Reflected Preferences of the American People For President of the United States Jackson Lee: “Voter fraud is a threat to democratic governance because it threatens the ability of election results to reflect the preference of the people. Coming from the current President of the United States, these allegations of “widespread voter fraud” are serious and the Department of Justice should conduct a thorough and comprehensive investigation of voting irregularities and anomalies, which should include a full examination of voting machines and other voting devices, in all 50 states.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today regarding the letter sent by her and Democratic colleagues Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (GA-04), Rep. Karen Bass (CA-37), and Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) to Acting U.S. Attorney General Sally Yates requesting the Department of Justice to conduct a thorough and comprehensive investigation of voting irregularities and anomalies, which should include a full examination of voting machines and other voting devices, in all 50 states: “In recent days, President Trump, personally or through his spokespersons, has repeatedly, consistently, and confidently asserted that the 2016 presidential election was marked by “voter fraud.” The president has not identified or produced any credible evidence to support the claim that he is the rightful winner of the popular vote which he lost to Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton by more than 2.8 million votes, the largest vote deficit in history. “Coming from the current President of the United States, these allegations of ‘widespread voter fraud’ are serious and should be taken seriously because, at bottom, what is now at stake is public confidence and certainty as to who really won the 2016 presidential election. For this reason, it is imperative that the Department of Justice conduct a thorough and comprehensive investigation of voting irregularities and anomalies, which should include a full examination of voting machines and other voting devices, in all 50 states. “Voter fraud is a threat to democratic governance because it threatens the ability of the election results to reflect the preference of the people. This type of fraud, however, can manifest itself in two distinct ways: first, by counting votes cast by persons not eligible to cast them; and second, by actions designed to prevent, deter, and exclude eligible persons from casting their votes. To ensure public confidence, both of these types of ‘voter fraud’ allegations must be investigated by the Department of Justice. The November 8, 2016 election was the first presidential election held since the Supreme Court decided Shelby County v. Holder, which neutered the preclearance provisions of the Voting Rights Act, adversely affecting the ability of hundreds of thousands of persons to cast a ballot and have their vote counted because of numerous hindrances, including the curtailment of early voting, photo identification requirements, serendipitous changes to voting places, purging of voting rolls, and the use of outdated, obsolete, unreliable, and insecure voting machines disproportionately placed in underrepresented communities. Every American has a vested interest in an electoral system that is fair, transparent, and reliable. That is why I believe that where the results in the Electoral College and of the popular vote diverge, as is the case this year, by the largest and most astounding margin in American history, it is particularly fitting, appropriate, and necessary for the Department of Justice to conduct a thorough investigation of all credible allegations of voter fraud in all 50 states to determine whether the reported outcomes reflected the preferences of the American people. The fate of our democracy is at stake.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing January 23, 2017 202-225-3816 PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE STATEMENT OF GRATITUDE TO PETA Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “I am honored to receive the PETA Congressional Leadership Award and will continue working for the fair treatment of animals.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement after receiving the Congressional Leadership Award from the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): “I am honored to receive the PETA Congressional Leadership Award and will continue working for the fair treatment of animals. “In response to the brutal killing of Cecil the Lion, I introduced the Cecil the Lion Endangered and Threatened Species Act. This legislation would amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to prohibit the taking and transportation of any endangered or threatened species as a trophy into the United States. Currently, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) does not protect the vast majority of wild animals killed and imported. As a result of this loophole, tens of thousands of wild animals are killed every year by trophy hunters and transported into the United States. “The conservation of endangered and threatened species is critically important to the sustainability of our biodiversity, and ecosystems. Injustice is universal, rather it be directed towards animals or humans and I thank PETA for their gallant efforts and will continue to support them in the fight for animal rights.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing January 18, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Applauds President Obama and Secret Service Director Clancy on $24 Million Settlement of decades-old Racial-Bias Claims Brought by African American Secret Service Agents Jackson Lee: “I am pleased this two-decade-old racial discrimination case has been resolved. I am glad to see the Secret Service renew its commitment to fairness in promoting its most talented officers and agents. As Director Clancy moves the agency forward under the new administration, I hope and expect the Secret Service to embrace transparency. Secret Service agents who put their lives on the line to keep us safe deserve to have their efforts rewarded by a fair promotion process.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today regarding the $24 million settlement reached between the Secret Service and plaintiffs compensating more than 100 dedicated African American agents for legal injury they suffered as a result of unfairness in the agency’s promotion practices: “I applaud President Obama and Secret Service Director Clancy for their great work in reaching the agreement that settles the two-decade-old case involving more than 100 black agents alleged to have been denied promotion because of racially discriminatory promotion practices that routinely promoted white agents over more qualified African American candidates. “I thank Mr. Moore and all the plaintiffs for bringing this issue to light and for persevering in their search for justice. This case was tied up in litigation for entirely too long and through too many administrations. I am glad to see the plaintiffs obtain compensate and closure, remedying the sting of the discrimination the agents suffered and the career opportunities they lost and believe and hope this long fought for result will prevent future discrimination in the agency. “As a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security Committee Homeland Security, which has jurisdictional oversight over the Secret Service, I have worked closely among my colleagues in Congress, as well as with agency leaders, to ensure that they have the resources needed to properly do their jobs, and a work environment marked by a fair and transparent promotion process. within the federal government and hope that today’s announcement will ensure that the agency’s continued commitment to do so in the future. “The Secret Service has long tradition of doing great work as the elite law enforcement agency responsible for ensuring the president’s safety. I am glad to see them acknowledge the unfairness endured by Mr. Moore and the other eight plaintiffs which amount to a glass ceiling which denied advancement to so many qualified African American agents for so long. I applaud the Secret Service for changing its long-standing promotion process by considering multiple candidates for each position and keeping records of factors for making promotions, as well as agreeing to create a hotline for agents to report bias, and to keep track of racial-bias complaints made against supervisors when considering them for promotion. This settlement agreement brings needed changes to make the Secret Service a model for other law enforcement agencies to emulate.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations
01.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing January 17, 2017 202-225-3816 Press Statement CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE GIVES HER SUPPORT TO DIRECTOR JOHN BRENNAN, DIRECTOR JIM CLAPPER, AND THE ENTIRE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY FOR THEIR TREMENDOUS SERVICE TO OUR NATION Jackson Lee: “I have worked closely with the Intelligence community for most of my years in Congress. These are some of the most honest and bravest men and women serving in our government” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement regarding her support of Director John Brennan, Director Jim Clapper, and the entire Intelligence community: “I have worked closely with the Intelligence community for most of my years in Congress. These are some of the most honest and bravest men and women serving in our government. I stand firmly by Director John Brennan, Director Jim Clapper, and the families whose loved ones sacrificed and lost their lives in the line of duty. Their families would not consider them Nazi’s. I look forward to working with, and continuing my support of our Intelligence community wherever they may be throughout the world.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing December 14, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Calls Upon House Committee Leaders to Aggressively Investigate Russian Tampering in U.S. Presidential Election Following The Trail Wherever It Leads And Taking Appropriate Punitive Actions Where Required Jackson Lee: “The subject of Russian interference in U.S. elections represents such an existential threat to national security that it is essential that all of the relevant House congressional committees – Intelligence, Judiciary, Homeland Security, Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, and Oversight and Government Reform – must launch investigatory hearings as soon as the 115th Congress begins, following the trail wherever it leads, and taking appropriate punitive actions to deter any repetition of such conduct.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today in response to published reports that the Central Intelligence Agency has concluded, in a secret assessment, that Russia intervened in the 2016 election to help Donald Trump win the presidency, rather than just to undermine confidence in the U.S. electoral system: “With each passing day, it becomes increasingly clear that a foreign power, the Government of Russia, actively worked to subvert the 2016 presidential campaign of the Democratic candidate for the express purpose of electing the preferred choice of the Russian Government for U.S. President, Donald J. Trump. “The subject of Russian interference in U.S. elections represents such an existential threat to national security that it is essential that all of the relevant committees of Congress – Intelligence, Judiciary, Homeland Security, Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, Oversight and Government Reform – must launch investigatory hearings as soon as the 115th Congress begins, following the trail wherever it leads, and taking appropriate punitive actions to deter any repetition of such conduct. “The linchpin of representative democracies such as the United States is public confidence in the political system, regime, and community. That confidence in turn rests upon the extent to which the public has faith that the system employed to select its leaders accurately reflects its preferences. At bottom, this means that the American people must be able to freely elect their leaders without interference, covert or overt, from foreign governments or entities allied with foreign powers. “The Central Intelligence Agency has concluded, in a secret assessment, that Russia intervened in the 2016 election to help Donald Trump win the presidency, rather than just to undermine confidence in the U.S. electoral system. This is the gravest attack on American independence and sovereignty as great as Pearl Harbor and 9/11. It cannot be allowed to stand with impunity. The facts and actors involved in this plot must be uncovered and laid bare for the American people to see and understand. And that requires at a minimum that that all of the relevant committees of Congress – Intelligence, Judiciary, Homeland Security, Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, and Oversight and Government Reform - should launch investigatory hearings immediately upon the commencement of the 115th Congress. “There can be no higher priority for the next Congress than ensuring that the election process, the hallmark of democratic governance, is invulnerable to foreign influence or manipulation.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
12.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 18, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Statement Opposing Nomination of Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama to be U.S. Attorney General Jackson Lee: “The duty of the U.S. Attorney General is to lead the Department of Justice in protecting and expanding the civil rights of all Americans and the pursuit of equal justice for all, not to turn back the clock on hard won rights and liberties.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today in response to the President-Elect’s announced intention to nominate U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to be the next Attorney General of the United States: “On Election Night the President-Elect pledged to the nation that he would be a president to all Americans. That pledge will ring hollow to tens of millions of Americans in light of his announced intention to nominate one of the U.S. Senate’s most far-right members, Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to be the next Attorney General of the United States. “Perhaps nothing would do more to reassure the American people that the President-Elect is committed to unifying the nation than the nomination and appointment of a person to be Attorney General who has a record of championing and protecting, rather than opposing and undermining, the precious right to vote; the constitutionally guaranteed right of privacy, criminal justice reform, and support for reform of the nation’s immigration system so that it is fair and humane. “The nomination of Senator Sessions as Attorney General does not inspire the necessary confidence. As Senator from Alabama, the state from which the infamous Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder originated, Senator Sessions has failed to play a constructive role in repairing the damage to voting rights caused by that decision. He was one of the leading opponents of the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. He is one of the Senate’s most hostile opponents of comprehensive immigration reform and was a principal architect of the draconian and incendiary immigration policy advocated by the President-Elect during the campaign. And his record in support of efforts to bring needed reform to the nation’s criminal justice system is virtually non-existent. “In 1986, ten years before Senator Sessions was elected to the Senate, he was rejected for a U.S. District Court judgeship in view of documented incidents that revealed his lack of commitment to civil and voting rights, and to equal justice. And his Senate voting record and rhetoric has endeared him to white nationalist websites and organizations like Breitbart and Stormfront. “Should the President-Elect proceed with the nomination of Senator Sessions to be Attorney General, I call upon the Senate Judiciary Committee to subject the nomination to the most comprehensive, searching, and withering examination. “The United States has been blessed to have been served as Attorney General by such illustrious figures as Robert Jackson, Robert Kennedy, Herbert Brownell, Ramsey Clark, Nicholas Katzenbach, Eric Holder, and Edward H. Levi. “No senator should vote to confirm the nomination of Jeff Sessions as U.S. Attorney General if there is the slightest doubt that he possesses the character, qualities, integrity, and commitment to justice and equality needed to lead a department, the headquarters building of which is named for Robert F. Kennedy, one of the nation’s greatest and most indefatigable champions of civil rights and equal justice for all.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
12.01.2016	For Immediate Release Contact: Glenn Rushing December 1, 2016 (202) 225-3816 Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement on World AIDS Day Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Committee on Judiciary and House Committee on Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today commemorating “World AIDS Day”: “We have come a long way since the first World AIDS Day in 1988. We have dramatically expanded investments in HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment, and research. Strong advocacy has paved the way for the Ryan White Act, the Housing Opportunities for People with AIDS Initiative, growing investments in NIH research, and an end to the ban on federal funds for syringe exchange. Beyond our borders, our efforts have extended care to millions in the developing world, through increased resources for PEPFAR and the Global Fund. “Our investments have saved lives – preventing millions of new HIV cases, expanding access to improved treatments, and enabling medical advances that help HIV/AIDS patients live longer and healthier. Here and across the globe, AIDS-related deaths are on the decline – with UNAIDS estimating that 700,000 deaths were averted last year. Studies are pointing the way to new ways to limit the spread of the disease, with treatment as prevention. Yet, while our efforts have grown, we still only reach half of all people eligible for HIV treatment; and more must be done. “Working together, we must continue to strengthen – not weaken – our national and international efforts to combat AIDS and other infectious diseases. We must work to achieve the Obama Administration’s goal of an AIDS-free generation. We must honor the memory of those we have lost and act on our hope, optimism, and determination to end the HIV/AIDS pandemic. “We must continue to work with programs and clinics, like Legacy Community Health, Avenue 360 Health and Wellness, Change Happens, and the Harris County Hospital District (HCHD) who are treating and caring for patients with HIV/AIDS. In 1989, HCHD opened Thomas Street Health Center, the first free-standing facility dedicated to outpatient HIV/AIDS care in the nation. The center has become the cornerstone of all HIV/AIDS care available to Harris County residents. “The Thomas Street Health Center has dedicated their services to about 25 percent of Harris County’s HIV/AIDS. Annually, the health center, along with HCHD, serves 4,463 unique patients for about 37,000 patients’ visits. “We will continue to fight a tough fight against HIV and AIDS. We will continue to strengthen and support centers like Thomas Street Health Center, Legacy Community Health, Avenue 360 Health and Wellness, and Change Happens who work diligently with HIV/AIDS patients. Our focus on HIV/AIDS prevention and awareness will be to ensure all of our friends, relatives and children live healthy and full lives.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 30, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Announces $378,333 Vision Research Grant Awarded to University of Houston by National Eye Institute WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today announcing that the National Eye Institute of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded a grant in the amount of $378,333 to the University of Houston to fund ongoing vision research in the field of Optically Induced Anisometropia: “I am pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded the University Houston a grant in the amount of $378,333 to further its important vision research in the field of optically induced anisometropia. In addition, the grant will enable the University of Houston to fund professional development activities intended to improve research for students studying at the National Eye Institute and to assist them in meeting high professional standards. “I commend the University of Houston for the work it does to provide quality educational opportunities to its students and congratulate it for winning such a prestigious grant. I am proud to have supported the authorizing and appropriations legislation that made this grant possible.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 29, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Expresses Condolences to Families and Loved Ones of Victims of Plane Crash in Columbia WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Committee on Judiciary and House Committee on Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today expressing her condolences to the victims and the families of those who lost loved ones on the flight from Bolivia to Columbia: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the plane crash that tragically took the lives of 75 passengers, including members of the Chapeconese de Brazil soccer club. At this difficult time, the American people mourn with the people of Brazil, and we offer our thoughts and prayers to the friends and family members of those who were killed or injured. “The conditions surrounding this plane crash that claimed so many lives is heartbreaking. The families deserve justice and answers and in doing so, I applaud the in-depth investigation being conducted by the authorities to find out what actually happened to the plane and the victims.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
12.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 30, 2015 202-225-3816 PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE APPLAUDS HOUSE PASSAGE OF “21ST CENTURY CURES ACT” Jackson Lee: “As a Member of Congress and a cancer survivor, I am proud to have co-sponsored and supported the 21st Century Cures Act, which represents a new national effort to find treatment and cures for thousands of unknown and rare diseases.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and Judiciary, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today following passage by the House of Representatives of the “21st Century Cures Act,” which provides $4.8 billion over 10 years for an NIH Innovation Account to fund critical basic research need to find cures for diseases: “As a Member of Congress and a cancer survivor, I am proud to have co-sponsored and supported the 21st Century Cures Act, which represents a new national effort to find treatment and cures for thousands of unknown and rare diseases. “This thoughtful legislation is the culmination of the hard work of my dedicated colleagues and involved numerous conversations with patients, innovators, providers, regulators, researchers, and more than 370 patient and physician groups, state and local organizations, cancer centers, about how to move advances in science and medicine into new therapies. “The 21st Century Cures Act provides $6.3 billion in funding to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) over the next ten years to fund the following activities: 1. Precision Medicine Initiative ($1.455 billion over 10 years), an innovative approach that takes into account individual differences in people’s genes, environments, and lifestyles and will help researchers develop medicines tailored to individuals, rather than one-size-fits-all treatments. 2. BRAIN Initiative ($1.511 billion over 10 years), a bold new research effort to revolutionize our understanding of the human brain and uncover new ways to treat, prevent, and cure brain disorders like Alzheimer’s, schizophrenia, autism, epilepsy, and traumatic brain injury. 3. Cancer Moonshot ($1.8 billion over 5 years), launched this year by Vice President Joe Biden to fund the development of cancer vaccines, develop more sensitive diagnostic tests for cancer, immunotherapy and develop combination therapies, and research that has the potential to transform the scientific field and address major challenges related to cancer. “I am also pleased that the 21st Century Cures Act also include a student loan repayment program for clinical scientists who do research in health disparities and for clinical scientists from disadvantaged backgrounds, from $35,000 per year to $50,000 per year plus a yearly inflation for adjustment. This loan forgiveness program will enable members of underrepresented communities and those from disadvantaged backgrounds the opportunity to become future researchers and workers of the biomedical workforce. “Under the ‘21st Century Cures Act,’ the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities will necessarily include strategies for increasing representation of minority communities in its strategic plan. “I am proud that the 21st Century Cures Act incorporates the Jackson Lee Amendment which I offered during the initial consideration of the 21st Century Cures Act by the House which will help ensure that the national goals of finding and bringing more cures and treatments to patients and strengthening the biomedical innovation ecosystem in the United States is aided by an expanding pool of diverse and talented medical researchers. “Increasing diversity of those conducting research will have positive effects on the types of conditions that are researched and the variation in participants in clinical trials that are seeking cures for illnesses like lupus, triple negative breast cancer, and sickle cell disease that can be difficult to detect, treat and cure. “Triple negative breast cancer, for example, disproportionately impacts younger women, African American women, Hispanic/Latina women, and women with a “BRCA1” genetic mutation, which is also prevalent in Jewish women. More than 30% of all breast cancer diagnoses in African American women are of the triple negative variety. “Increased diversity in research trials could help researchers find better, more precise ways to fight diseases that disproportionately impact certain populations, and may be important for the safe and effective use of new therapies. “Another important provision of the 21st Century Cures Act is that it requires the National Institutes of Health to report the number of children by race and gender who participate in NIH funded clinical trials, which will help ensure that children of all races are adequately represented in clinical trials and that we can determine the safety and effectiveness of drugs on children of all demographic backgrounds. “With 10,000 known diseases, 7,000 of which are rare, and treatments for only 500 of them-clear there is much work to do. And much of that work will be done in Houston, which is home to the largest medical complex in the world, ¬the Texas Medical Center, which provides clinical health care, research and education at its 54 institutions. “The 21st Century Cures Act represents a major step forward toward the discovery, development, and delivery of promising new treatments and cures for all patients while investing in our nation's ability to maintain the best and most diverse biomedical workforce in the world.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 28, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Statement Regarding Presidential Vote Recounts in the Several States Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee; Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, and the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus released the following statement today regarding efforts currently being undertaken in certain states to obtain an accurate and complete count of the votes cast for candidates for President in the 2016 election: “The linchpin of representative democracies such as the United States is public confidence in the political system, regime, and community. That confidence in turn rests upon the extent to which the public has faith that the system employed to select its leaders accurately reflects its preferences. At bottom, this means that all citizens casting a vote have a fundamental right and reasonable expectation that the votes cast count and are counted. “We know from experience that it not uncommon that occasionally vote counts reported in an initial canvass may later prove to be inaccurate because sometimes votes are overlooked or inaccurately credited to the wrong candidate. Vote recounts have long been recognized as an essential safeguard to correct errors of this type. Recounts have occurred at the local, state, and presidential level, as we saw in 2000. “It should be noted also that the November 8 election is the first presidential election held since the Supreme Court issued the notorious decision in Shelby County v. Holder, which neutered the preclearance provisions of the Voting Rights Act and adversely affected the ability of hundreds of thousands of persons to cast a ballot and have their vote counted. “Also, as is the case this year, where the results in the Electoral College and of the popular diverge by the largest and most astounding margin in American history, it is particularly fitting and appropriate to ensure that any uncertainty over the accuracy of the vote determining any state’s electoral votes be resolved as fairly and expeditiously as possible.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Glenn Rushing November 28, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Regarding Stabbing Incident At The Ohio State University Campus Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement in response to the senseless stabbing at The Ohio State University in which ten students were injured: “Today is yet another sad day in our country because a senseless act of violence has injured ten innocent students at The Ohio State University. I am deeply saddened to learn about that violence has again been visited upon a place of learning. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of the victims and everyone affected by this horrible act of violence. I know that everyone in The Ohio State University community and all persons across our great county stand ready to assist the victims in any way they can. “We must also commit ourselves to the important and necessary work of ensuring that all educational institutions in this country, from pre-K to our great research universities, are places where all members of the educational communication can study, learn, teach, and live in safety and without fear of senseless act of violence or terror. “I commend all of the first responders involved in this incident for their swift, effective, and professional work. Americans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This is one of those times.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and
11.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 22, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Statement Regarding Tragic School Bus Accident in Chattanooga, Tennessee Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement in response to the Chattanooga school bus crash: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the horrific accident yesterday afternoon, which claimed the lives of young elementary students in Chattanooga, Tennessee. A school bus carrying students from Woodmore Elementary School crashed, killing five students and hospitalizing twelve more. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of the Woodmore Elementary School community and everyone else impacted by this tragedy. “I applaud first responders for their swift and professional response to this incident, and support authorities in their continued efforts to investigate the circumstances surrounding the crash. The 24-year old bus driver, who was allegedly speeding when he lost control of the bus, has been charged with vehicular homicide. “I also commend the many citizens of Chattanooga, Tennessee who are coming together during this difficult time and donating blood to help treat the crash victims. Our communities have a remarkable ability to come together in times of crisis, and this is one of those times. “As many families across the nation come together to celebrate the holidays, the community of Chattanooga, Tennessee will gather together to mourn the tragic loss of five of its young citizens. My prayers and condolences are with the family and loved ones of the five young children who lost their lives in this terrible accident, and I share the grief of everyone affected by this tragedy.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 18, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Statement Opposing Nomination of Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama to be U.S. Attorney General Jackson Lee: “The duty of the U.S. Attorney General is to lead the Department of Justice in protecting and expanding the civil rights of all Americans and the pursuit of equal justice for all, not to turn back the clock on hard won rights and liberties.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today in response to the President-Elect’s announced intention to nominate U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to be the next Attorney General of the United States: “On Election Night the President-Elect pledged to the nation that he would be a president to all Americans. That pledge will ring hollow to tens of millions of Americans in light of his announced intention to nominate one of the U.S. Senate’s most far-right members, Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to be the next Attorney General of the United States. “Perhaps nothing would do more to reassure the American people that the President-Elect is committed to unifying the nation than the nomination and appointment of a person to be Attorney General who has a record of championing and protecting, rather than opposing and undermining, the precious right to vote; the constitutionally guaranteed right of privacy, criminal justice reform, and support for reform of the nation’s immigration system so that it is fair and humane. “The nomination of Senator Sessions as Attorney General does not inspire the necessary confidence. As Senator from Alabama, the state from which the infamous Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder originated, Senator Sessions has failed to play a constructive role in repairing the damage to voting rights caused by that decision. He was one of the leading opponents of the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. He is one of the Senate’s most hostile opponents of comprehensive immigration reform and was a principal architect of the draconian and incendiary immigration policy advocated by the President-Elect during the campaign. And his record in support of efforts to bring needed reform to the nation’s criminal justice system is virtually non-existent. “In 1986, ten years before Senator Sessions was elected to the Senate, he was rejected for a U.S. District Court judgeship in view of documented incidents that revealed his lack of commitment to civil and voting rights, and to equal justice. And his Senate voting record and rhetoric has endeared him to white nationalist websites and organizations like Breitbart and Stormfront. “Should the President-Elect proceed with the nomination of Senator Sessions to be Attorney General, I call upon the Senate Judiciary Committee to subject the nomination to the most comprehensive, searching, and withering examination. “The United States has been blessed to have been served as Attorney General by such illustrious figures as Robert Jackson, Robert Kennedy, Herbert Brownell, Ramsey Clark, Nicholas Katzenbach, Eric Holder, and Edward H. Levi. “No senator should vote to confirm the nomination of Jeff Sessions as U.S. Attorney General if there is the slightest doubt that he possesses the character, qualities, integrity, and commitment to justice and equality needed to lead a department, the headquarters building of which is named for Robert F. Kennedy, one of the nation’s greatest and most indefatigable champions of civil rights and equal justice for all.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Glenn Rushing November 18, 2016 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Mourns the Death of Deputy Commander Patrick Carothers of the U.S. Marshal Service Who Was Killed in the Line of Duty Apprehending a Fugitive From Justice Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement in response to the tragic death of U.S. Marshal Deputy Commander Patrick Carothers: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family and loved ones of Deputy Commander Patrick Carothers, and the members of the U.S. Marshal Service and Southeast Regional Fugitive Task Force. The death of a U.S. Marshal is a tragedy and another reminder of the dangers faced by law enforcement officers who risk their lives to keep our communities safe. “Under the leadership of Deputy Commander Carothers, the Southeast Regional Taskforce attempted to apprehend a wanted fugitive when there was an exchange of fire, resulting in the death of Deputy Commander Carothers and the fugitive. “Deputy Commander Carothers served the citizens of this nation honorably during his brilliant 26-year long career, which was tragically cut short. I join the nation in mourning his loss, cherishing his memory, and working to reduce gun violence in America.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.17.2016	For Immediate Release Contact: Glenn Rushing November 16, 2016 (202) 225–3816 PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE STATEMENT REGARDING DECISION BY COUNTY ATTORNEY TO BRING MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES AGAINST OFFICER INVOLVED IN FATAL SHOOTING OF PHILANDO CASTILE Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement today: “The County Attorney for Ramsey County, Minnesota Attorney Office has brought manslaughter charges against the police officer involved in the tragic and fatal shooting of Philando Castile, a 32-year old African American man on July 6, 2016. “The shocking video of that incident was viewed by millions of persons across the country and considered by many to be a textbook example of unjustified use of lethal force and an urgent reminder of the pressing need for reform of the nation’s law enforcement and criminal justice system. Police departments need to receive better training in the use of de-escalation and non-lethal tactics and to make the transition from ‘warrior’ to ‘guardian’ cultural mindset. “That is why I joined with House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers to introduce the Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity act (H.R. 2875). This legislation will help build trust and respect between law enforcement officers and the communities they serve by providing for continual development and improvement of law enforcement agencies in establishing standards of excellence and accountability. “I commend the Ramsey County Attorney on the decision to seek justice for Philando Castile but urge everyone to remember that under our constitutional form of government every person charged with a criminal offense is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing November 16, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Urges President-Elect to Rescind Appointment of Steven Bannon to Senior White House Position Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today calling upon the President-Elect to rescind his controversial appointment of Steven Bannon as White House Senior Counselor and Strategist: “If the President-Elect is takes seriously the pledge his Election Night pledge to be a president to “all Americans,” he must immediately renounce his intention to appoint Steven Bannon as White House Senior Counselor and Strategist. “Steven Bannon has a long history promoting racial and ethnic bigotry, sexism, religious intolerance, and misogyny. He has insinuated that African-Americans are ‘naturally aggressive and violent,’ and under his leadership, Breitbart’s publishing strategy turned to one that has made it the media arm of the racist ‘Alt-Right’ movement, publishing articles promoting popular white nationalist tropes such as “black on white crime” and that "rape culture" is inherent in Islam. “In selecting Steven Bannon as one of his two most trusted White House advisors, the President-Elect is signaling to the American people that the inflammatory, reckless, and insensitive rhetoric and tactics employed by his campaign can be expected to become part of his Administration’s standard operating procedure. This is not the way to begin healing the wounds opened by the recently concluded presidential campaign and or to bring the American people together. “I strongly urge the President-Elect to reconsider his decision and rescind his controversial appointment of Steven Bannon as White House Senior Counselor and Strategist. ###
11.15.2016	For Immediate Release Contact: Glenn Rushing November 14, 2016 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas Statement Denouncing Planned Ku Klux Klan Victory Parade in North Carolina Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement condemning the planned Trump “Victory Parade” in North Carolina by the Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan: “The Ku Klux Klan has a long and richly deserved reputation as the leading hate group in America. Its legacy is one of racism, anti-Semitism and religious bigotry, violence, and domestic terror. The Klan is motivated by a hateful ideology that is rejected by the vast majority of the American people." “I join with the Chairman of the North Carolina Republican Party and people of goodwill everywhere in condemning the hateful and bigoted extremists who comprise the Ku Klux Klan and call upon its leaders to renounce any plans to hold “victory parade” celebrating the election of the President-Elect. That is not the way to bring about the healing and reconciliation needed to unify our country after such a divisive and racially charged election campaign.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Glenn Rushing November 14, 2016 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Jackson Lee Mourns the Passing of Award-Winning Journalist Gwen Ifill Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement after learning of the death of Gwen Ifill, the award-winning journalist and longtime host of PBS’ NewsHour: “I am saddened to learn of the death of Gwen Ifill, one of the most thoughtful and highly respected journalists of her generation. “I celebrate the many milestones that Gwen achieved in her storied career, including being the first African-American female to moderate a vice- presidential debate in 2004. Reprising her role four years later, Gwen brilliantly moderated the 2008 vice-presidential debate between Vice-President Joe Biden and Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. “A reassuring presence as the co-host of PBS NewsHour and the host of “This Week in Washington,” Gwen Ifill career was marked and measured by her professionalism, grace, integrity, and journalistic excellence which is memorialized in the many awards and honors she received. “Today, I not only mourn her passing, but celebrate her life, a shining example for the journalistic community and women everywhere. I hope it is a comfort to her family and loved ones at this difficult time that so many people in the United States and around the world are today mourning the loss of the beloved Gwen Ifill.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
11.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing October 31, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement POLL 576 REOPENS IN ACRES HOMES “It is important that all our citizens have easy accessibility to Election Day polls, and that is why I secured the reopening of Precinct 576” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary released the following statement regarding the reopening of precinct 576: “The Acres Home community, which is one of Houston’s older neighborhoods, called me out of concern about the relocation of their precinct for the upcoming election. I contacted the Harris County Clerk’s Office to advocate that it would be too disruptive for such a move this close to Election Day,” stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. The Harris County Clerk has agreed to reopen the polling place for precinct 576. She further stated, “I will be discussing other polling places and Election Day concerns in order to ensure a fair and unfettered election process. Citizens should verify their voting location before going to vote on November 8, 2016 and should not confuse their Election Day voting location with previous early vote sites. To report any irregularities at polling places, citizens should call the Texas Election Protection Coalition at 866-687-8683.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee worked along with community leaders Charles Ingram and Edna Griggs to advocate for the reopening of this Acres Home polling location. ###
10.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Glenn Rushing October 12, 2016 202-225-3816 Press Statement CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE CALLS ON COMMUNITY TO HELP DEVASTATED HAITIANS THAT NEED HELP NOW “Hurricane Matthew toll in Haiti rises to 1,000, dead buried in mass graves” – Rueters Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement regarding the impact of Hurricane Matthew and the need for assistance to the Haitian people: “Six years after a devastating 7.0-magnitude earthquake killed more than 200,000 people, Haiti was been hit by another deadly natural disaster after landfall of Hurricane Matthew. It was the first major hurricane (Category 3, 4, or 5) to hit Haiti in 50 years. Many parts of Haiti devastated by Hurricane Matthew are still without aid, people have not eaten, and their crops are gone. This is a devastating humanitarian crisis and as American’s we must step up to the plate once again to aid the good people of Haiti,” stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Congresswoman Jackson Lee further stated that, “I am glad to be partnering today with New Missions, the Houston Food Bank, Interfaith Ministries, The “Luke” (Saint Luke Missionary Baptist Church), Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church, The Community of Faith Church, Fountain of Praise Church, People Outreach Ministries and the Houston Haitian Community to help collect and donate non-perishable foods, clothing, pillows, blankets, sheets, and any other items to help the Haitian people as they recover from this unbelievable second major disaster within 7 years. I am asking the people of Houston who have experienced the devastation and trauma of hurricanes to pour out blessings to the people of Haiti by giving donations over the next seven days until October 20.” "We will have to deal with that situation, address it, be sympathetic to the plight of the people of Haiti as a result of the hurricane," stated Secretary Jeh Johnson, Secretary of Homeland Security. Donations are being collected at these locations: THE LUKE 2380 South Houston Avenue Humble, TX 77396 INTERFAITH MINISTRIES 3202 San Jacinto Houston, TX 77004 HOUSTON FOOD BANK 535 Courtwall Street Houston, TX 77029 WHEELER AVENUE BAPTIST CHURCH 3826 Wheeler Avenue Houston , TX 77004 THE COMMUNITY OF FAITH CHURCH World Headquarters 1024 Pinemont Drive Houston, TX 77091 “I want to thank the people of Houston and the Houston Metro area for giving over the next seven days for this humanitarian cause.” ###
09.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 29, 2016 202-225-7080 Press Statement CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE INTRODUCES H.R.6230 – THE SOCIAL SECURITY SAFETY DIVIDEND ACT WHICH SEEKS RELIEF FOR SENIORS, VETERANS, AND PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES WHO RECEIVE SOCIAL SECURITY TO RECEIVE A $250 PAYMENT IN THE EVENT THAT NO COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT IS PAYABLE IN A CALENDAR YEAR “Seniors with few additional resources and the oldest seniors with the highest medical expenses are likely to suffer the most from flat or even diminishing income. This $250 will be a great help to them,” stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement after introducing HR 6230 – the Social Security Safety Dividend Act of 2016: “Today I introduced legislation that calls for an increase in the cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) for senior citizens. This legislation ask that the cost-of-living-adjustment be made part of the FY2017 budget. Seniors have been denied a COLA increase three times since 2010. If it fails to increase in FY 2017, it will be the fourth time and the second year in row for senior citizens. “It is anticipated that in October of this year the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) will report an increase of 0.2 percent in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) for the 12-month period ending September 30, 2016. An increase of this means that the typical Social Security beneficiary, who receives $1,234.98 monthly, will receive a cost of living adjustment (COLA) of approximately $2.47 per month, or about $40.00 per year. Seniors received no COLA for 2016 and the last COLA received in 2015, amounted to only a 1.7 percent, or about $20.00 per month. The median annual income for senior households is a mere $24,000, reflecting just how much Social Security means to most elderly Americans. According to the BLS, about 60 percent, or six in ten, seniors rely on Social Security for more than half of their income. Approximately one-third of retirees subsist exclusively on their Social Security benefits. Additionally, the 65,682 persons living off SSI benefits desperately need financial relief since SSI benefit levels are quite modest, averaging approximately $14,800 per year. “Although the proposed one-time payment of $250.00 to seniors in Fiscal Year 2017 represents less than two percent of the average annual Social Security retirement benefit, this modest sum will go a long way in helping the nation’s hard-pressed seniors pay for prescription drugs, gas for their cars, utility bills, and other necessary expenses that too many are struggling to afford. This Bill will request that Social Security beneficiaries automatically receive a $250 check in any calendar year that a COLA is not payable. This additional income will help ease the burden of unexpected expenses and the continual increase in the real cost of living. For instance, $250 can help seniors pay for prescription drugs, gas for their cars, utility bills, and other important expenses that too many seniors struggle to afford.” This legislation is supported by the following: Richard Fiesta, executive director of the Alliance for Retired Americans says: "Seniors are struggling to get by. $250 may not seem like much on Wall Street, but to retirees on Main Street it could be what allows them to pay their electric bill or buy groceries. We must make sure Social Security meets today's basic needs." National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare "For the millions of seniors who rely upon Social Security as their only source of income, and millions more who rely upon it for at least half of their income, a one-time payment to make up for the lack of a COLA is not a luxury, it's a necessity," said Max Richtman, President and CEO of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. "I applaud the Members of the Congress who understand that helping seniors maintain their purchasing power for necessities like health care, fuel and food, not only improves their quality of life but also helps the local economy." ###
09.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 28, 2016 202-225-7080 Press Statement CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE RESPONDS TO SHOOTING INCIDENT AT TOWNVILLE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement in response to the shooting at Townville Elementary School: “Today is yet another sad day in our country because of a senseless shooting at Townville Elementary School in Townville, South Carolina. I am deeply saddened to learn about those who have been wounded because of this incident. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of the Townville Elementary School community and those who have been injured and anyone else personally impacted by this senseless act of violence. I am sure that everyone in the community of Townville Elementary School campus will do whatever they can in the coming days to ease the pain, tensions and concerns of all affected. “I have introduced common sense legislation that would focus on protecting our nation from gun violence and accidents. H.R. 65 will raise the handgun eligibility age from 18 to 21, and will prohibit persons under the age of 21 from possessing semiautomatic assault weapons or large capacity magazines. Moreover, H.R. 65 increases penalties on individuals who knowingly transfer a handgun, ammunition, semiautomatic assault weapon, or large capacity ammunition feeding device to a person under age 21. We must also work to ensure that Gun Free Zones are enforced. “My prayers and condolences go first to the families of those wounded and I share the grief of everyone affected by this event. I applaud the swift work by the First Responders. Americans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This is one of those times.” ###
09.26.2016	For Immediate Release Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 26, 2016 (202) 225-7080 PRESS STATEMENT FOUR DAYS UNTIL NEXT REPUBLICAN GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement regarding the pending Continuing Resolution before Congress: “With only 4 days remaining before the next Republican Government Shutdown, the Republican Congress is wasting time on a dead-end Continuing Resolution more concerned with protecting the flow of secret money into our elections than helping the lead-poisoned children of Flint. “Republicans have decided the thousands of innocent, lead-poisoned children in Flint are not worthy of help from the Congress. The 9,000 children under the age of six in Flint who were exposed to lead, through no fault of their own, get nothing in the CR. House Republicans will not even allow Democrats to include resources for Flint in the WRDA water infrastructure bill on the floor this week. “The CR contains unacceptable pay-fors including a Republican plan to raid vital funding for the Affordable Care Act. It also includes special interest poison pills such as an outrageous Republican rider that would continue the flow of special interest money into our elections, by preventing the SEC from requiring big corporations to disclose their political spending. “Republicans have decided to put their callous special interest agenda ahead of the needs of sick, desperate children. One year after the horror of the Flint Water Crisis was revealed, Republicans insist on abandoning the thousands of lead-poisoned children still waiting for help. “With this toxic CR draft, Republicans are choosing a path that will only further delay the resources needed to fight Zika. President Obama submitted his urgent request for emergency resources to fight Zika seven months ago. While Republicans dawdled and obstructed, more than 23,000 Americans –including almost 2,100 pregnant women – have been infected with the Zika virus.” ###
09.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 23, 2016 202-225-7080 PRESS STATEMENT Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Calls for the Immediate Release of Videos of the Killing of Keith Lamont Scott in Charlotte, North Carolina Jackson Lee: “Charlotte Police should immediately release the video showing the killing of Keith Lamont Scott. The public is entitled to know the facts and the truth.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today regarding the shooting death of Keith Lamont Scott: "My thoughts and prayers are with the Scott family and for calm in Charlotte. “I call upon the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department to release immediately all videos showing the killing of Keith Lamont Scott. The public is entitled to know the facts and the truth surrounding this tragic incident. “Like far too many other mothers and grandmothers of black children can tell you—this problem did not start in Charlotte. I share their pain, anger, frustration, and pain. What is needed is healing, and that can only begin with transparency and accountability by those entrusted with the responsibility for administering, enforcing, and upholding the law.” ###
09.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 21, 2016 202-225-7080 Press Statement As Public Health Crises Mount House Republicans Have Abandoned The American People “Do Your Job, House Republicans,” Stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and House Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement regarding House Republicans not doing their job: “After shutting down Congress for the longest summer recess in modern history, House Republicans continue to ignore their responsibilities to the American people – wasting time on a radical, special interest agenda, as Americans face critical public health emergencies. While the American people wait for critically urgent action from Congress, Speaker Ryan went to New York City this week to give a big speech on his plan to hand massive tax giveaways to millionaires and billionaires on the backs of hard-working American families. “According to an analysis by the non-partisan Tax Policy Center, 99.6% of Speaker Ryan’s tax cuts would go to the richest 1% of Americans by the year 2025. Meanwhile, instead of legislating, Tea Party Republicans appear to be continuing to threaten an unprecedented political stunt of trying to impeach the Commissioner of the IRS; a frivolous and corrosive effort that would set a dangerous new precedent for Republicans’ anti-government onslaught. “In the history of our democracy, Congress has impeached only one Cabinet level official (in 1876), and has never impeached an executive branch official below the Cabinet rank, such as the IRS Commissioner. House Republicans are doubling down on their months of callous obstruction and inaction in the face of a staggering to-do list of unfinished business to keep the American people safe. In each of the public health crises before America, House Republicans have chosen to obstruct the meaningful action and resources needed to save lives. “This month, the Centers for Disease Control will run out of resources to fight Zika. As CDC Director Tom Frieden warned, ‘The cupboard is bare… Basically, we are out of money and we need Congress to act.’ Yet even with almost 21,000 Americans – including nearly 1,900 pregnant women – with confirmed cases of Zika, the Republican Congress has chosen to put their radical agenda ahead of enacting the emergency funding needed to protect American families from this threat. “The President submitted an emergency request for supplemental resources to fight Zika more than six months ago – but the Republican Congress has refused to act. House Republicans have chosen to prioritize their assault on women’s access to comprehensive health care over fighting the Zika virus. “Republicans must immediately act to pass emergency resources to fight the Zika virus and contains no poison pills. At every turn, House Republicans have abandoned Americans who are counting on strong action from Congress to protect their families: • Opioids – Republicans have obstructed vital new resources to address the opioid epidemic that kills 78 Americans every day. • Flint – One year after the nation first learned of the gravity of this horrible crisis, Republicans are still blocking any action to help the thousands of children facing lifelong damage from drinking poisoned water. • Gun Violence Prevention – Republicans have refused to act on bipartisan, life-saving, commonsense legislation to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists and criminals – legislation supported by the overwhelming majority of Americans. “Democrats will continue to demand action on these crises to secure the health and safety of America’s families.” ###
09.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 7, 2016 202-225-7080 PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION INTO THE POSSIBLE DESTRUCTION OF EVIDENCE BY THE HARRIS COUNTY PRECINCT 4 CONSTABLE’S OFFICE Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after requesting an immediate investigation to the possible unlawful destruction of over 20,000 pieces of evidence by the Harris County Precinct 4 Constable’s Office: “Recently it was reported that the Harris County Precinct 4 Constable’s Office may have possibly destroyed over 20,000 pieces of evidence. This egregious miscarriage of justice demands a thorough and vigilant review of policies and practices for at least the prior 10 years of cases handled and processed by the Harris County Precinct 4 Constable’s Office. It has been reported by the Houston Chronicle and other media outlets that the Harris County District Attorney recently dismissed 142 criminal cases and is currently reviewing more than 1,000 additional pending cases in response to mishandled evidence needed for trial by the Harris County Precinct 4 Constable’s Office. In particular, Corporal Chris Hess was found responsible and his employment terminated for throwing out at least 21,500 pieces of evidence held in a property room in January of this year. An internal investigation by the Harris County Precinct 4 revealed that Mr. Hess had been destroying evidence in direct violation of evidence control protocol since 2007. At this time no charges have been formally filed against Mr. Hess or any other individual responsible for the mass destruction of evidence. An internal audit and lack of complete accountability will not suffice when thousands of lives have been jeopardized and likely ruined by the failure to protect the integrity and basic legal rights demanded within our criminal justice system. “It is unfortunate that this is not the only grievous instance of misconduct and broken trust for residents of Harris County, Texas. From horrific jail conditions, use of excessive and fatal police force, a failed system of grand jury mishaps, and various other incidents and cases that have called upon the continued scrutiny and action of the Department of Justice, Harris County has long been plagued with the inability to resolve deeply imbedded policies and practices of misguided and tainted justice without federal intervention and oversight. “An administrative practice of catastrophic record-keeping by the Harris County Precinct 4 Constable’s Office provides no exception. The ability to receive unfettered justice in Harris County cannot be achieved until immediate action is taken to address and eliminate a deeply flawed and broken system of justice. Unacceptable and unlawful procedures and practices can no longer jeopardize the lives and liberty of countless individuals, or the future and integrity of the Harris County criminal justice system. “I am asking the Department of Justice to take immediate action and to conduct a thorough investigation into the disregard for the protection and preservation of the rights of victims and defendants within the justice system of Harris County Precinct 4.” ###
09.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 7, 2016 202-225-7080 PRESS STATEMENT !!!!! CDC Director Tom Frieden has warned that “the cupboard is bare and soon we will be out of money and we need Congress to act.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House Homeland Security Committee released the following statement regarding the House GOP not doing their job: “After shutting down Congress for the longest summer recess in the modern era, House Republicans are bringing their reckless inaction back to Washington – forcing desperate families facing dire public health emergencies to keep waiting for the help they need. House Republicans are doubling down on their months of callous obstruction and inaction in the face of a staggering to-do list of unfinished business to keep the American people safe. In each of the public health crises before America, House Republicans have chosen to obstruct the meaningful action and resources needed to save lives. “Yet even with almost 17,000 Americans – including nearly 1,600 pregnant women – with confirmed cases of Zika, the Republican Congress has chosen to put their radical agenda ahead of enacting the emergency funding needed to protect American families from this threat. The President submitted an emergency request for supplemental resources to fight Zika more than six months ago – but the Republican Congress has refused to act. House Republicans have chosen to prioritize their assault on women’s access to comprehensive health care over fighting the Zika virus. Republicans must immediately act to pass the Senate’s bipartisan Zika funding bill, which provides $1.1 billion in emergency resources to fight the Zika virus and contains no poison pills. “Democrats will continue to demand action on these crises to secure the health and safety of America’s families.” ###
09.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 6, 2016 202-225-7080 PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE SAYS HOUSE GOP SHOULD STOP THE OBSTRUCTION AND DO THEIR JOB Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House Homeland Security Committee released the following statement regarding the House GOP not doing their job: “After shutting down Congress for the longest summer recess in the modern era, House Republicans are bringing their reckless inaction back to Washington – forcing desperate families facing dire public health emergencies to keep waiting for the help they need. House Republicans are doubling down on their months of callous obstruction and inaction in the face of a staggering to-do list of unfinished business to keep the American people safe. In each of the public health crises before America, House Republicans have chosen to obstruct the meaningful action and resources needed to save lives. “This month, the Centers for Disease Control will run out of resources to fight Zika. Yet even with almost 17,000 Americans – including nearly 1,600 pregnant women – with confirmed cases of Zika, the Republican Congress has chosen to put their radical agenda ahead of enacting the emergency funding needed to protect American families from this threat. The President submitted an emergency request for supplemental resources to fight Zika more than six months ago – but the Republican Congress has refused to act. House Republicans have chosen to prioritize their assault on women’s access to comprehensive health care over fighting the Zika virus. Republicans must immediately act to pass the Senate’s bipartisan Zika funding bill, which provides $1.1 billion in emergency resources to fight the Zika virus and contains no poison pills. “At every turn, House Republicans have abandoned Americans who are counting on strong action from Congress to protect their families: • Opioids – Republicans have obstructed vital new resources to address the opioid epidemic that kills 78 Americans every day. • Flint – Republicans are blocking any action to help the thousands of children facing lifelong damage from drinking poisoned water. • Gun Violence Prevention – Republicans have refused to act on bipartisan, life-saving, commonsense legislation to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists and criminals – legislation supported by the overwhelming majority of Americans. “Democrats will continue to demand action on these crises to secure the health and safety of America’s families.” ###
09.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 6, 2016 202-225-7080 PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE ASKED THAT THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE INVESTIGATE SECURITY BREACHES AND VULNERABILITIES WHICH STAND TO COMPROMISE THE INTEGRITY OF OUR NATION’S ELECTORAL PROCESS “At the recently concluded G20 Conference, President Obama addressed this concern stating we have had problems with cyber intrusions from Russia in the past – I agree with the President on this issue,” stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement regarding her letter to the Department of Justice requesting that the Department of Justice investigate and take appropriate action in connection with the alarming threat of security breaches and vulnerabilities which stand to compromise the integrity of our nation’s electoral process: “Recently I wrote to the Department of Justice regarding the recent attempts to hack into voter machines and at least two successful breaches into election system databases in Illinois and Arizona. Reports of cyberattacks against various U.S. institutions and targets, including cyber theft of thousands of documents from several Democratic organizations, continues to threaten the security and confidence of our American democracy. Growing evidence that Russian government hackers are responsible for these breaches raises further concern that such attempts have been made to directly influence the outcome of the November general election. “This is concerning given the heightened barriers and challenges that already exist jeopardizing the validity of the American vote and the ability for Americans to exercise their vote. Over the years it has become increasingly harder for citizens to realize their voting rights – particularly for African Americans and other minorities, as well as for students, the elderly and individuals with disabilities. Voter suppression measures across the country, such as new voter ID laws, reductions and cuts to polling places and early voting, and purging of voter rolls, have created significant burdens for individuals seeking to exercise their most fundamental constitutional right. With varied systems of election administration and technology, polling place practices and experience of poll workers, there is a real and dangerous threat that hackers will compromise our nation’s entire electoral process. “During a time when the voting rights of minorities and all Americans are under the greatest attack since the passage of the Voting Rights Act, it is imperative that the federal government take all necessary steps to ensure that the right to vote and the entire electoral process is fully protected and upheld. That is why I am asking the Department of Justice, pursuant to its statutory authority and consistent with its historic role as a guardian of civil rights and liberties, to take immediate action and investigate the full scope of vulnerabilities, security threats and breaches to our electoral and voting process. I am also requesting that the Department provide assurance that it has the resources and capabilities needed to ensure that the right of all Americans to vote, and to have their votes counted, will be protected.” ###
09.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerry September 6, 2016 202-225-7080 Press Statement CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA ANNOUNCES THAT CHANGE HAPPENS! HAS RECEIVED A $1,330,000 GRANT TO SUPPORT AFFORDABLE CARE ACT NAVIGATOR PROGRAM WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services awarded Change Happens! a social service grant: “It brings me great pleasure to announce that the non-profit Change Happens! was awarded $1,330,000 to support the Affordable Care Act Marketplace Navigator Program. “This program ensures that Texans in the Gulf Coast Region have access to affordable, high quality health coverage in the market place. Through this program, Navigators provide information in a cultural and linguistic manner appropriate to the needs of the served population in an accurate, fair, and unbiased way. “In order for a community to thrive, the businesses and members amongst the community must come together to help the less fortunate, and Change Happens! is doing just that by helping the community through a variety of programs, including the ACA Navigator Program. The $1.3 million awarded to the organization will fund the Navigators and allow them to reach a broader range of people within the Federal marketplace. Additionally, the grant will help support the broad public education approach of the program that seeks to provide out-stationed assistance locations, a local Helpline Center, community presentations and forums, and special events and various outreach and education activities that result in successful enrollment opportunities. “The work done by the ACA Navigator Program through Change Happens! is truly commendable and deserving of recognition. In 2013-2014 alone, over 1.1 million individuals were reached through a combination outreach and education strategies. “I look forward to the continued enlightenment of our community that will benefit not only those who participate in the program but also the families and the community as a whole.” ###
06.17.2016	For Immediate Release Contact: Mike McQuerry June 14, 2016 (202) 225 – 3816 Press Statement Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Introduces “Stopping Mass Killings By Violent Terrorists Act” To Keep Most Dangerous Weapons Out Of Hands Of The Most Dangerous Persons" Jackson Lee: “We are living in challenging times and law enforcement faces difficult challenges in keeping our homeland secure and our people safe. The “Stopping Mass Killings By Violent Terrorists Act” gives our law enforcement agencies another tool to help keep the most dangerous weapons out of the hands of homegrown terrorists.” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today after introducing H.R. 5470 the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act”: “Our nation was horrified and heartbroken by the heinous act of terror and hatred that claimed the lives of 49 innocent persons and wounded many more in Orlando, Florida, the deadliest mass shooting in the history of our country. Our hearts grieve over the loss so overwhelming and senseless. “Mass shootings have become too common in our country and we owe to the victims of gun violence – from Orlando to Charleston to Aurora to Chattanooga to Fort Hood and more -- to keep weapons intended for military use out of the hands of persons who would use them to massacre civilians. “That is why today I have introduced H.R. 5470, the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act,” which will prohibit a firearms dealer from transferring a semiautomatic assault weapon or large capacity ammunition clips to a purchaser until the Attorney General has verified that the prospective transferee has truthfully answered new questions on the firearms background check questionnaire regarding contacts between the prospective purchaser or transferee and federal law enforcement authorities. “H.R. 5470 complements many of the gun violence prevention and anti-terrorism bills I have introduced in this and previous Congresses, including the “No Fly For Foreign Fighters Act” (H.R. 4240), which passed the House earlier this year and is pending in the Senate. “On average gun violence claims the lives of 90 persons each day. Since 1968, more than a million persons have died at the hand of a gun. The homicide rate in the United States is about 6.9 times higher than the combined rate in 22 other populous highly-developed countries, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. “I call upon Speaker Ryan and Senate Republican Leader McConnell to must rise above partisan politics and bring to the floor needed legislation to reduce gun violence and mass shootings in America. The safety of the American people should be paramount, not the interests of the National Rifle Association. “Mass shootings like the ones that occurred in San Bernardino, Newtown, and Orlando are made easier to carry out by the prevalence and ease in obtaining automatic assault weapons and high capacity ammunition magazines. We can make it more difficult for those who would do our people and communities harm by making those weapons more difficult to obtain, or better yet, by banning them altogether. And a good place to start is for Speaker Ryan to schedule debate and vote on H.R. 5470, the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act.” ###
06.16.2016	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee and a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security, released the following statement regarding the Republican response to the Orlando mass shooting by combining legislation and repackaging three homeland security bills that the House has already passed: “In response to the Orlando mass shooting, House Republicans are combining together and repassing three mostly noncontroversial homeland security bills that the House has already passed and sent to the Senate. Since these bills are already in the Senate, repassing these bills has no effect. House Republicans are desperately trying to convince the public that they are doing something to make Americans safer this week, when they are really doing nothing. “As Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee and as a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee, I have introduced H.R. 5470, the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act,” which will prohibit a firearms dealer from transferring a semiautomatic assault weapon or large capacity ammunition clips to a purchaser until the Attorney General has verified that the prospective transferee has truthfully answered new questions on the firearms background check questionnaire regarding contacts between the prospective purchaser or transferee and federal law enforcement authorities. “On Tuesday, House Republicans introduced a bill (H.R. 5471) that incorporates the three mostly noncontroversial homeland security bills. Today, the House will consider H.R. 5471 under suspension of the rules. Most of my colleagues are expected to vote YEA. However, Democrats argue that instead of Republicans doing the meaningless gesture of passing this bill, the House instead should be considering H.R. 1076, the bipartisan “No Fly, No Buy” and H.R. 5470, the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act immediately!!!!” ###
06.16.2016	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today after introducing H.R. 5470 the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act”: “Our nation was horrified and heartbroken by the heinous act of terror and hatred that claimed the lives of 49 innocent persons and wounded many more in Orlando, Florida, the deadliest mass shooting in the history of our country. Our hearts grieve over the loss so overwhelming and senseless. “Mass shootings have become too common in our country and we owe to the victims of gun violence – from Orlando to Charleston to Aurora to Chattanooga to Fort Hood and more -- to keep weapons intended for military use out of the hands of persons who would use them to massacre civilians. “That is why today I have introduced H.R. 5470, the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act,” which will prohibit a firearms dealer from transferring a semiautomatic assault weapon or large capacity ammunition clips to a purchaser until the Attorney General has verified that the prospective transferee has truthfully answered new questions on the firearms background check questionnaire regarding contacts between the prospective purchaser or transferee and federal law enforcement authorities. “H.R. 5470 complements many of the gun violence prevention and anti-terrorism bills I have introduced in this and previous Congresses, including the “No Fly For Foreign Fighters Act” (H.R. 4240), which passed the House earlier this year and is pending in the Senate. “On average gun violence claims the lives of 90 persons each day. Since 1968, more than a million persons have died at the hand of a gun. The homicide rate in the United States is about 6.9 times higher than the combined rate in 22 other populous highly-developed countries, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. “I call upon Speaker Ryan and Senate Republican Leader McConnell to must rise above partisan politics and bring to the floor needed legislation to reduce gun violence and mass shootings in America. The safety of the American people should be paramount, not the interests of the National Rifle Association. “Mass shootings like the ones that occurred in San Bernardino, Newtown, and Orlando are made easier to carry out by the prevalence and ease in obtaining automatic assault weapons and high capacity ammunition magazines. We can make it more difficult for those who would do our people and communities harm by making those weapons more difficult to obtain, or better yet, by banning them altogether. And a good place to start is for Speaker Ryan to schedule debate and vote on H.R. 5470, the “Stop Mass Killings by Violent Terrorists Act.” ###
05.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today after being named to serve on a conference committee working to complete legislation addressing the opioid addiction epidemic. “As a Senior Member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic I am pleased that Leader Pelosi has picked me as a Conferee to the legislation addressing the opioid addiction legislation. Opioid addiction is inflicting a savage daily toll on communities and families across America. The Democratic conferees will lead the way in pressing Congress to respond to this national emergency with the seriousness and urgency it requires. “Sadly, Republicans have obstructed the critical new resources that are desperately needed to make a meaningful difference in the communities facing this tragedy across the nation. With 78 Americans dying of opioid overdoses every day, House Democrats will not stop fighting to get America’s families the prevention, treatment and recovery resources they need to overcome the opioid addiction epidemic. “I am committed to continuing to work with my colleagues as part of our Conference with the Senate to ensure that we lift the arbitrary, and harmful physician treatment cap and to ensure that nurse practitioners and physicians assistants in every community can permanently use their skills and experience to serve those in need of opioid use disorder treatments in their community. “I want to be clear that we should not be under the illusion that we can adequately respond to this crisis without providing urgently needed resources. Waiting on the appropriations process is not suitable. Our states and communities urgently need money now. “Additionally we should not be forced to cut other discretionarily funded public health programs to provide resources for substance abuse programs. The discretionary funding caps have already left many of our vital public health programs underfunded; forcing additional cuts to those programs in order to provide funding to respond to the opioid epidemic will limit our ability to adequately respond to the opioid crisis as well as to meet the remaining public health needs of our communities. We do not have to guess how it turns out if we fail to provide the urgent, robust funding that is desperately needed. “As I stated earlier we are losing 78 Americans each day– we cannot afford anything less than a comprehensive, well-funded federal response.” ###
05.06.2016	What: HR 5130 - The “Stop Infant Mortality and Recidivism Reduction Act of 2016” or the “SIMARRA Act,” will permit the Bureau of Prisons to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Federal prison system for pregnant offenders by establishing a pilot program of critical-stage, developmental nurseries in Federal prisons for children born to inmates. The “SIMARRA Act” will decrease unprecedentedly high, current infant mortality rates and allow inmate mothers to provide healthy and safe gestation to protect their unborn, as well as bond with infants during their first 30 months of life, designated by the CDC as one of the most critical stages of development. Who: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, other Members of Congress, The Children’s Defense Fund, NAACP, National Organization of Women (NOW) and Hour Children Where: 234 Cannon House Office Building, Washington, DC Date: Thursday May 12, 2016 Time: 2:30pm ###
05.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement in honor of Cinco de Mayo today: “On Cinco de Mayo, we commemorate the incredible triumph of a poorly-armed Mexican militia fighting in defense of their rights, their country and their heritage against a better-equipped Imperial French army. As we reflect upon the valor and courage displayed at the Battle of Puebla, we celebrate the proud history of our Mexican neighbors and the rich contributions Mexican Americans and all Americans of Latino heritage have made to our country. “Today, we are reminded of the strength we draw from the generations of immigrants whose diverse stories are woven into the fabric of America. Immigrants make America more American – and we must honor that truth by standing up for hard-working immigrant families and passing comprehensive immigration reform. In the absence of House Republican action to reform our broken immigration system, we are confident that the Supreme Court will uphold President Obama’s executive actions to keep families united and honor our values as a nation. “Cinco de Mayo inspires us to bring renewed energy and determination to the great fight against xenophobia, racism and injustice. Today, we come together in the spirit of those who won such an improbable victory at the Battle of Puebla – propelled by the strength of our values and committed to securing a brighter future." # # #
04.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, after writing and talking with the IRS Commissioner, announces that Houston area tax payers qualify for relief from Penalties on late tax returns due to severe weather and flooding in the Houston area: “After writing and talking with the IRS Commissioner today, it has been decided that the Internal Revenue Service today will advise taxpayers who are affected by severe weather in the Houston area and other parts of Texas that they may qualify for relief from penalties if they are unable to meet today’s deadline for filing 2015 tax returns. “There is no penalty for filing a late return qualifying for a refund. Taxpayers who owe tax, however, should file when they are reasonably able, and expect a notice regarding late filing and late payment penalties. “The IRS reminds taxpayers they can also qualify for an automatic six-month extension to file their tax returns. The fastest and easiest way to get the extra time is through Free File. Anyone, regardless of income, can use this free service to electronically request an automatic tax-filing extension on Form 4868. “The IRS will continue to closely monitor the situation. Disaster declarations with individual assistance for areas are made by FEMA, which allows the IRS to provide additional relief for taxpayers. If taxpayers receive a notice regarding a penalty, they can request a penalty abatement based on reasonable cause criteria. The IRS will review requests on a case-by-case basis. “Affected taxpayers may request abatement of penalties assessed on their 2015 federal income tax return by: 1. Contacting the IRS campus that issued the penalty assessment notice. The telephone number is listed on the notice. 2. Identifying themselves as a taxpayer affected by the severe storms during the period around April 18, 2016. 3. Requesting penalty relief, based on reasonable cause criteria. 4. Taxpayers who need to speak with an IRS representative can call 800-829-1040.” ###
04.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, released the following statement today after the United States Supreme Court heard oral argument in United States, et al. v. Texas, et al., No. 15–674, a case brought by the State of Texas challenging the constitutional validity of President Obama executive actions on immigration: “I am hopeful and anticipate that the Supreme Court will reject the challenge to President Obama’s immigration executive actions because are reasonable, responsible, within his constitutional authority, and supported by long standing precedent. “The Supreme Court has consistently interpreted the “Take Care” Clause in Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution as ensuring presidential control over those who execute and enforce the law and the authority to decide how best to enforce the laws. These cases included Arizona v. United States; Bowsher v. Synar; Buckley v. Valeo; Printz v. United States; and Free Enterprise Fund v. PCAOB. “Indeed, the Court’s 2012 decision in the case of Arizona v. United States, strongly suggests that the executive branch’s discretion in matters of deportation may be exercised on an individual basis, or it may be used to protect entire classes of individuals. “In exercising this broad discretion, President Obama has not done anything that is novel or unprecedented. Rather, his executive actions are consistent with the following actions taken by presidents, both Republican and Democratic, on issues affecting immigrants over the past 35 years: 1. In 1987, President Ronald Reagan used executive action in 1987 to allow 200,000 Nicaraguans facing deportation to apply for relief from expulsion and work authorization. 2. In 1980, President Jimmy Carter exercised parole authority to allow Cubans to enter the U.S., and about 123,000 “Mariel Cubans” were paroled into the U.S. by 1981. 3. In 1990, President George H.W. Bush issued an executive order that granted Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) to certain nationals of the People’s Republic of China who were in the United States. 4. In 1992, the Bush administration granted DED to certain nationals of El Salvador. 5. In 1997, President Bill Clinton issued an executive order granting DED to certain Haitians who had arrived in the United States before Dec. 31, 1995. 6. In 2010, the Obama Administration began a policy of granting parole to the spouses, parents, and children of military members. “We cannot perpetuate an obviously broken immigration system that tears families apart, dishonors our values as Americans, and fails to meet the needs of our country. I look forward to the Supreme Court upholding the constitutionality of the President’s immigration executive actions, and call upon the Republican congressional leadership to bring to the floor for a vote legislation that will comprehensive reform our broken immigration system. # # # Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing Houston in the U.S. House of Representatives, is a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary. She is the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations and a senior member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security.
04.15.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Investigations released the following statement regarding the recent shooting of Harris County Deputy Constable Alden Clopton: “Recently Harris County Deputy Constable Alden Clopton was shot while on duty in Houston, Texas. The residents of Houston, along with the surrounding communities, will continue to pray for him and hope he has a speedy recovery. Gun violence is an epidemic in America. We have a moral responsibility to address the daily tragedy of shootings and gun deaths in our communities and the vast majority of Americans support commonsense action to reduce gun violence. I want to thank Deputy Constable Clopton, for his 11 service as a field training officer for Precinct 7. It is truly a sad day when an Officer is shot while protecting the community of Houston. The perpetrator that shot him is a coward. “We cannot fail to act while so many Americans are being shot and are dying. Congress should support increased resources needed for law enforcement and mental health care. I have introduced two bills that will increase those resources. H.R. 4315 - Mental Health Access and Gun Violence Prevention Act of 2016 - authorizes $500 million for mental health treatment access and to assist in the reporting of relevant disqualifying mental health information to the FBI's background check system NICS. H.R. 4316 - Gun Violence Reduction Resources Act - authorizes the hiring of 200 additional ATF agents and investigators for enforcement of existing gun laws. The President, in his Executive Orders, included these specific requests in those Orders and these bills respond to those requests. “We need Congressional action on gun violence now!!!!!!!! Congress must come together to build on the President’s steps to curb gun violence and pass my legislation and the bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to strengthen background checks and keep guns out of the wrong hands.” ###
04.04.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, issued the following statement on the shooting of Virginia State Trooper Chad Dermyer at a Richmond, Virginia Greyhound station yesterday: "I was saddened to learn of the senseless and tragic shooting of Virginia State Trooper Chad Dermyer at the Greyhound bus station in Richmond yesterday. This inexplicable act of violence is a painful reminder of the fact that our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line each and every day to protect our communities. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of the Trooper Chad Dermyer killed in the line of duty.” ###
04.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 215,000 jobs in March. With businesses adding 195,000 jobs last month, March represents the 73rd consecutive month of private sector job growth. "This month's jobs report shows our economy continuing to make progress. As we extend the longest uninterrupted stretch of private sector job creation in American history, we must not take our foot off the gas. Congress must do more to create good-paying jobs and grow the paychecks of hard-working American families. "However, this Republican Congress has wasted week after week on their dead-end special interest agenda, while the priorities of hard-working Americans receive nothing but indifference and inaction. Now, House Republicans have recessed for two weeks without passing a budget and without addressing critical public health emergencies in our country. "While the Do-Nothing Republican Congress continues to tear itself apart over whether its 'Road to Ruin' budget plan is brutal enough to seniors, students and hard working families, Democrats are standing for a better vision: help families facing public health crises, grow the paychecks of hard-working Americans, and invest in the future of our country." # # #
04.04.2016	Washington, DC – Today, House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) released the following joint statement after the White House announced President Obama granted commutations to 61 individuals: “I am encouraged by President Obama’s commutation of sentences of 61 individuals today, including five from Texas. All of these men and women were the victims of unjust sentencing. Had they been convicted under today’s laws or reform proposals, they would have already been released and contributing back to society. “I welcome and applaud the commutations of the sentences of these individuals. Incarcerating people for unwarranted lengths of time serves no constructive purpose. The President has recognized this, as has Attorney General Loretta Lynch, and it is my hope that the Administration’s Clemency Project will continue to address the multitude of cases in which sentence reductions are appropriate. “Thousands of individuals are still awaiting review of their application for commutation or pardon. With the President’s commitment and the continued efforts to ensure just review of all those deserving of a second chance, I remain optimistic that the Administration will make every effort to meet the challenge and goal of giving a voice to all those in need of justice. The task may be daunting but American lives depend upon this critical mission. “Of course, the need to engage in such a broad review of sentences exists largely because our sentencing laws and policies, particularly for drug offenses, urgently need to be changed. We need to eliminate mandatory minimum sentencing and let judges impose appropriate sentences based on the facts and circumstances of each case, and we should eliminate the higher penalties for crack cocaine relative to powder cocaine offenses. I am inspired by growing, bipartisan recognition of the problem of over incarceration and I determined to see sentencing reform legislation advance this Congress. “The United States incarcerates nearly 25 percent of the world’s inmates, even though it only has 5 percent of the world’s population. Thirty years ago, there were less than 30,000 inmates in the federal system; today, there are nearly 216,000, an increase of 800 percent! African Americans and Hispanics comprise more than 6 in 10 federal inmates incarcerated for drug offenses. And African American offenders receive sentences that are 10 percent longer than white offenders for the same crimes and are 21 percent more likely to receive mandatory-minimum sentences than white defendants according to the U.S. Sentencing Commission. “There is no shortage of stories about the damage done to the lives of thousands of individuals and their families, such as Sharanda Jones, by the draconian sentencing laws passed by Congress and state legislatures beginning in the late 1980s in the ‘War on Drugs.’ Increased use of executive clemency power by the President highlights the need to reform federal sentencing policy for all Americans and reduce spending taxpayer dollars on our overcrowded prison system. It is essential that the Administration’s Clemency Project continue to push forward and address the multitude of cases for which sentence reductions are appropriate. “It is past time for us to get our fiscal and penal houses in order. Along with my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee I have introduced and cosponsored H.R. 3713, the “Sentencing Reform Act”, and H.R. 759, the “Corrections and Recidivism Reduction Act,” two critical pieces of legislation that aim to reform our sentencing laws, our prison system, and reentry services. The devastating and costly effects of mass incarceration can no longer be ignored. Working together to overhaul our criminal justice system is the only way to truly address our nation’s shameful sentencing practices and culture of incarceration. I am proud of the work we have accomplished but we still have much work to do.” ###
03.29.2016	March 28, 2016 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Judiciary Committee, and the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement today regarding the incident at the Capitol Visitor Center: “I commend the members of the U.S. Capitol Police for their rapid and effective response to the incident at the Capitol Visitor Center. Thanks to their professionalism and skill the gunman was apprehended with no loss of innocent life. I extend my best wishes for a speedy recovery to the wounded bystander. “The American people can be proud of the work done every day by the selfless men and women of the U.S. Capitol Police who safeguard the nation’s Capitol and ensure the safety of the public when they visit the citadel of the world’s greatest democracy.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
03.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, Co-Chair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus, and Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus released the following statement today regarding the horrific attack in the eastern Pakistan city of Lahore, which killed at least 72 persons and injured more than 340 others: “The people of Houston and the 18th Congressional District stand in solidarity with the people and Government of Pakistan at this difficult hour. Our prayers and sympathies are with the families and loved ones of those killed and injured. We stand in solidarity with the people of Pakistan as they respond to and recover from the terrible tragedy in Lahore. “Attacks like these only deepen the shared resolve of the civilized world to defeat terrorism in Pakistan and around the world. Pakistanis want peace and safety, and demand justice for those victims who were targeted for attack on Easter Sunday simply because they were believing Christians. “I urge the leaders of America’s Pakistani communities to gather in Washington, D.C. at the earliest feasible time to discuss ideas and collectives measures to be taken in support the people of Pakistan in the effort to defeat the Taliban and end the violence in their land.” ### Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement after terror attacks in Brussels, Belgium: "All Americans share in horror at the unspeakable terror attacks in Brussels today. Today's attacks are a reminder of the common danger the free, democratic nations of the world face from an evil ideology that celebrates indiscriminate murder and places scant value on life or liberty. They are also a reminder that violence and instability in the Middle East resonate far beyond the region, and the international community must not retreat from addressing it. "My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their loved ones - as well as with the people of Belgium and all of Europe. Brussels has come to represent everything these terrorists despise: the cosmopolitan capital of a Europe uniting through democratic institutions behind principles of peace, pluralism, and a common purpose. That purpose has been one familiar to Americans - the pursuit of security and opportunity for all people to reach for a better life. Surely Brussels and Europe will emerge from today's attacks with an even stronger resolve to keep fulfilling that vision, and the American people will continue standing in solidarity with the Belgian people as they do so "The United States will offer our full assistance to the Belgian people as they work to bring the perpetrators and the planners of this attack to justice. We will be relentless in our fight against terror. We will not allow terrorists to succeed in blinding us with fear. To confront this threat abroad and protect the American people at home, we must be both strong and smart. No terrorist can overcome the strength of our values.” # # #
03.21.2016	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee joined President Obama on his historic trip to Cuba, the first trip by a sitting President in nearly 90 years. She released this statement: “I am so honored to be joining the President for this historic visit to Cuba. Through his bold leadership, President Obama is helping chart a new course forward between our two nations and it is past time for Congress to join him. “This visit is the next important step in ending more than 50 years of failed U.S. policy toward Cuba. It is clear that renewed relations between the U.S. and Cuba will greatly benefit both the American and Cuban people. Ending the embargo will help create U.S. jobs by creating new markets for U.S. exports, especially from the agricultural and tech sectors. “This historic delegation should challenge Members of Congress to greater action to end the outdated and unpopular embargo and travel ban. It is past time for Congressional hardliners to listen to the American people; the vast majority support ending the counterproductive embargo and travel ban. After more than five decades of failed policy, it’s time to abandon isolationism in favor of engagement.” ###
03.10.2016	Washington, DC – Many people do not realize that in the service of this nation there are many people – some of them known and some unknown. The United States House of Representatives, the nation and the world see most often the Members of Congress in the House and the Senate. Those are the many voices that people with take note of. It is important however to realize that there is a magnificent team almost like family members that help us serve the American people. Those individuals who mostly go unnamed and maybe by the public unnoticed are our staff. Today I want to pay tribute to a young brilliant woman who was a valiant servant of the people. I had the privilege of having her work for me as the Deputy Chief Counsel for the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Homeland Security, Terrorism, and Investigations. From the moment we engaged, I knew that I had in my midst a dedicated and loving public servant. She cared about the voiceless, the vulnerable, and those who have been wronged. Tiffany May Joslyn cannot be replaced due to the level of passion and compassion she showed to get our criminal justice system moving in the right direction. I loved her humor and her joy, her love for her family and friends, and her can do attitude that together working with the House Judiciary Committee and all the staff we could do very very good things for all of the people. So thank you Tiffany for being a servant of the people, exemplifying the great team of staff members that are serving America every day. You were not distracted by obstacles, but you were only guided by the desire to make things better. Farewell my young dear friend; you have left a legacy of brilliance and commitment to changing our criminal justice laws for the better. We must do so in your honor. My prayers go out to your family and friends for the loss of you and your brother. Both died in a tragic auto accident last weekend. Finally, these are not hallow words; you will never ever be forgotten. ###
02.17.2016	February 12, 2016 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement today in response to news story in the Washington Post that officials involved in the water crisis in Flint, Michigan could face charges as serious as manslaughter if their conduct is found to be grossly negligent: “The more we learn about the conduct of those principally involved in the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, the more likely it appears that that criminal acts may have been committed for which those responsible must be held to account before the bar of justice. For this reason, I am heartened by the announcement as reported today in the Washington Post that criminal charges may be brought against those persons whose malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance was a proximate cause of the serious injuries inflicted upon Flint residents. (“Manslaughter charges possible in Flint water crisis, says top investigator,” Feb. 10, 2016). The substantial and lasting damage inflicted upon Flint residents, and especially their children, cannot be overstated or excused. Officials must be held responsible for the lethal poisoning of vulnerable individuals. “As a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, I will remain focused on holding officials accountable to the people of Flint and to the American public. I will not rest until justice is done. “That is why as soon as details became public regarding the nature and scope of the Flint water crisis, and the abdication of responsibility by state officials, I wrote to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting the U.S. Department of Justice to launch a criminal investigation. In addition, I have joined with several of my colleagues in requesting President Obama calling to take further and appropriate executive action to help ameliorate the crisis. I also participated in the first of many investigative hearings to be held by House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Committee. And today, I joined Ranking Member John Conyers of Michigan and my Democratic colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee in urging the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee to convene hearings without delay. “I commend my Michigan colleagues, Ranking Member Conyers, Congressman Dale Kildee (MI-05), and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) for their leadership and steadfast commitment to their fellow Michiganders. As I have indicated to them, and to the residents of Flint when during my visit last week, they can count on me to stand in solidarity with them and residents of Flint to right the grievous wrong done to them no matter how long it takes.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
02.12.2016	February 11, 2016 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and a Board Member of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Inc. released the following statement regarding her election as Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Board. “I am very proud to have the confidence of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Board and to have this opportunity to build upon the mission and vision of its founders”, stated Congresswoman Jackson Lee The mission of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Inc. (CBCF) is to advance the global black community by developing leaders, informing policy, and educating the public. Its vision is for all communities to have an equal voice in public policy through leadership cultivation, economic empowerment, and civic engagement. Congresswoman Jackson Lee further stated, “I look forward to working with the Chairman of the Board, board members, and my congressional colleagues to advance the CBCF’s mission to positively impact our future by investing in our children.” ###
02.11.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary and the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee passed HR 759 the Corrections and Recidivism Reduction Act of 2016 today: “Today in the House Judiciary Committee we took a great step towards achieving our next step in Criminal Justice Reform. One of the most important aspects of reform is the treatment of prisoners while they are incarcerated is to make them better citizens when they are released from jail. “A recidivist is a person who is released from prison and who later commits another crime, or reoffends, such as a parole violation or the commission of a new crime. It is estimated that 73% of the recidivists released from prison and jails today committed a new crime or violated parole within the first year of their release. This current rate of recidivism reflects a complete failure of the prison system to achieve intended goals of deterrence and rehabilitation. “Included in this bipartisan legislation are the following provisions that I personally made sure were included in this important Bill: Expansion of definition of “prisoners” to include all DC inmates, juveniles (and juvenile delinquents), and anyone in contract facilities. Expansion of “recidivism reduction program” to allow for pilot and innovative programs, in addition to a broadening of the programming list (see above). Requirement that risk assessment include an evaluation of housing assignment to ensure people with similar risks are housed together and to decrease crowding at high security facilities. Inclusion of video conference as an incentive for completing programming. Granting prisoners earned time credits for pre-sentencing programming. Limiting the recidivist drug trafficking exclusion to those individuals who have had a meaningful opportunity to participate in the programs under this Act, i.e. even if you are a third time drug trafficker, if you haven’t had a chance to participate then you are not excluded from earning time credits. Requirement that the Attorney General review the administrative processes related to “recidivism reduction partners,” i.e. reviewing the process for these groups to get into the prisons or for prisoners to participate with the groups. Right to seek reconsideration of a determination that one is “more likely than not to recidivate” and thus ineligible to redeem credits. “Recidivism is a multi-tiered problem with no easy answer. The bipartisan legislation passed in the House Judiciary Committee today is an excellent first step in the direction to helping former inmates. The bill not only rehabilitates and enhances the safety of communities but it also reflects many of the provisions that I fought for including parenting skills and re-entry plans to name a few. Numerous studies have shown prison program systems providing institutional programming have lower recidivism rates among those who are released. Prison programs such as anger management, vocational skills training, educational opportunities, and even trauma support groups are vital to ensuring inmates who are reintroduced to the general population have the life skills necessary to stay on the right path. “Reducing the rate of recidivism of inmates returning to our communities is in the best interest of society because we will be making sure those returning home no longer pose a threat or a public safety risk.” ###
02.10.2016	February 9, 2016 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and House Judiciary Committees, released the following statement after the President released is final budget today: “Today, the White House unveiled President Obama’s FY2017 budget request – setting forward a strong, fiscally responsible plan to strengthen our national security, invest in the future, and expand the opportunities of hard-working American families. The President’s budget will once again draw a stark contrast with the radical special interest agenda that has consistently defined House Republicans’ budget plans. “Under the President’s plan, America makes bold, forward-looking investments in education, infrastructure and innovation, creating good-paying jobs and growing the paychecks of hard-working families. We create a strong future of security, prosperity and optimism for all Americans. Under previous Ryan Budgets, Republicans abandon seniors, undermine working families, and ransack our investments in education, infrastructure and innovation – all while protecting special interest loopholes and handing massive giveaways to the wealthy and well-connected. “Unfortunately, Republicans are sinking to a new low in proving their contempt for President Obama and a budget that meets the needs of America’s hard-working families. In an insult without precedent in modern Congressional history, the Republican Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees have refused to allow the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to present the President’s budget request. The Republican Chairmen’s condescending tone calls into question Republicans' seriousness about fulfilling their promise to complete a budget process that we know will require compromise and consultation with this same Administration. “Clearly, Republicans are not interested in hearing about a budget that invests in the future and grows the wages of hard-working Americans. House Democrats will continue to fight for a fiscally-responsible budget that strengthens the security of our country and expands the opportunities of American families.” ###
02.09.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and House Judiciary Committees, released the following statement after the President released is final budget today: “Today, the White House unveiled President Obama’s FY2017 budget request – setting forward a strong, fiscally responsible plan to strengthen our national security, invest in the future, and expand the opportunities of hard-working American families. The President’s budget will once again draw a stark contrast with the radical special interest agenda that has consistently defined House Republicans’ budget plans. “Under the President’s plan, America makes bold, forward-looking investments in education, infrastructure and innovation, creating good-paying jobs and growing the paychecks of hard-working families. We create a strong future of security, prosperity and optimism for all Americans. Under previous Ryan Budgets, Republicans abandon seniors, undermine working families, and ransack our investments in education, infrastructure and innovation – all while protecting special interest loopholes and handing massive giveaways to the wealthy and well-connected. “Unfortunately, Republicans are sinking to a new low in proving their contempt for President Obama and a budget that meets the needs of America’s hard-working families. In an insult without precedent in modern Congressional history, the Republican Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees have refused to allow the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to present the President’s budget request. The Republican Chairmen’s condescending tone calls into question Republicans' seriousness about fulfilling their promise to complete a budget process that we know will require compromise and consultation with this same Administration. “Clearly, Republicans are not interested in hearing about a budget that invests in the future and grows the wages of hard-working Americans. House Democrats will continue to fight for a fiscally-responsible budget that strengthens the security of our country and expands the opportunities of American families.” ###
02.03.2016	February 2, 2016 Washington, DC – Today, on Groundhog Day, House Republicans voted for the 63rd time to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, and for the 12th time to attack women’s health care in the 114th Congress alone. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement: “Today I voted against this latest Republican effort to dismantle the Affordable Care Act and defund Planned Parenthood, and called on Republicans to drop their repeated attempts to take away health care from women and hard-working Americans. For too long, the American people have been caught under the shadow of House Republicans’ radical agenda. And on this Groundhog Day, Republicans are celebrating by crawling back to the same old toxic attacks on women’s access to health care and on working families with health insurance. “Today, House Republicans failed in their Groundhog Day attempt to override the President’s veto of their radical reconciliation bill, which: Defunds Planned Parenthood, leaving millions of American women without key preventive health services – including life-saving cancer screenings, well-woman exams, birth control and advice on family planning; and Destroys the Affordable Care Act, dismantling the newfound health and economic security of millions of working families. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the Republican Reconciliation bill would have taken away health insurance from 22 million Americans after 2017. “The Republican House is stuck on an endless cycle of repeat, voting over and over on a radical agenda that will never become law. The American people cannot afford to relive another Republican Groundhog Day. Rather than wasting time on dead-end votes to attack women’s health and the health care of hard-working families, it is time Congress got to work on creating jobs and growing opportunity for working people.” # # #
02.03.2016	February 2, 2016 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security and House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after her amendment to HR 3700, the Housing Opportunity through Modernization Act was accepted by the full House of Representatives: “I was pleased to offer an amendment to HR 3700 - the Housing Opportunity through Modernization Act which includes many provisions that would increase the efficiency and effectiveness of critical rental assistance programs that serve extremely low-income households. H.R. 3700 contains provisions that would modify several programs administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), including core rental assistance programs (Housing Choice Vouchers, Public Housing, and Project-Based Rental Assistance), homelessness prevention and assistance programs, and Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance for condominiums. “My amendment that was accepted today recognizes that in addition to housing, connecting low-income families to job training and supportive services are key to helping families’ access employment and economic opportunity and achieve stability. My amendment recognizes that helping families achieve economic empowerment requires interagency collaboration. It is a known fact the public systems are better at solving big problems when they work together to share capacity, knowledge and resources. My amendment will encourage systems collaboration to help ensure that low-income families succeed in housing and employment. “Aspiring home owners like Fini receive support and resources towards employment success and homeownership. I am proud to report that Fini began the process, stayed the course and completed the criteria needed to qualify for homeownership: earned wages of at least $20,000 per year, a credit score of 640 or higher, the establishment of an Individualized Development (savings) Account with a minimum balance of $1,000, and completion of the FSS program’s Financial Literacy and First Time Home Ownership classes. Fini is now a proud homeowner and can now pass on the legacy of the importance of a work ethic, grit and homeownership to her children. “H.R. 3700 includes provisions that would help streamline the administration of HUD programs, particularly with respect to income determination for tenants and housing quality inspections for assisted rental housing. The bill also would expand flexibility between public housing operating and capital funds, and would provide additional flexibility to public housing agencies to conditionally approve housing voucher units with non-life threatening deficiencies in order to allow families immediate access. H.R. 3700 would ease restrictions on the purchase of condominiums with FHA insurance. “Interagency collaborations between agencies such as the Department of Labor, Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture can offer families critical support such as child care and nutrition assistance that are necessary for family stability and employment success. Livelihood and self-dignity are tied to employment and employment is critical to achieving financial independence and stability and stimulation of the economy. My amendment seeks to bridge the opportunities that abound when there is interagency/intersystem collaboration and the success that can come about.” ###
01.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the 71st anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz: “Today I would like to commemorate International Holocaust Remembrance Day and the 71st anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp. It is fitting today to remember to those who experienced the depth of human cruelty in that camp and all other Nazi concentration camps. It is estimated that over one million prisoners perished at the Auschwitz concentration camp over the five years that it was operational. “I grieve for those lost souls, but I give thanks for the 7500 prisoners who were liberated 70 years ago today. The stories of those survivors ensure that we remain vigilant and dedicated to combating hatred and oppression in all its forms. For that reason, I would also like to bring attention to the ongoing massacres and human rights violations being carried out by the militant terrorist organization Boko Haram in Nigeria. “Just like the actions of the Nazis during World War II, the actions of Boko Haram today are an affront to human life and dignity. From their first violent uprising in 2009, to the massacre in Baga less than one month ago, Boko Haram has been waging a war that has cost an estimated 10,000 lives, and displaced more than one million people. “I thank Secretary Kerry for his active role in supporting the Nigerians in their efforts to combat Boko Haram. I also thank the United States military, for providing the Nigerian military with trainers and specialists to aid them. But there needs to be more. These atrocities must not be permitted to continue, and we must do everything within our power to stop the kidnapping and killing of innocent men, women, and children across Nigeria.” ###
01.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today to mark the sixth anniversary of enactment of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act: “In 2009, on this day, President Obama made the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act the first bill he signed into law, restoring the right of women and other workers to challenge pay discrimination in court. It was a landmark law – ensuring that the courthouse door was open for women seeking to fight discrimination. “While enactment of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was a critical victory for equal pay, there is much more that must be done. We will also continue to fight for the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would provide a much-needed update to the 52-year-old Equal Pay Act, by providing more effective legal remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. “Fighting for equal pay for equal work, paid sick leave for America’s workers, expanding access to affordable, high-quality child care, and raising the minimum wage are all cornerstones of House Democrats’ efforts to empower working families through our ‘When Women Succeed, America Succeeds’ economic agenda. “The American people demand and deserve an economy that works for everyone – not just the privileged few. By ensuring equal pay for equal work and our other steps to strengthen working families, we can help secure opportunity for women, fairness for families, and equality for all Americans.” # # #
01.29.2016	January 28, 2016 Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today announcing a $12.5 million grant from the United States Department of Health and Human Services to the Harris County Health Department to provide emergency assistance to current HIV Relief Projects underway. “I am pleased to announce that the Harris County Health Department will receive a $12,498,599.00 grant to help fund the HIV Emergency Relief Projects in our communities. The rates of HIV/AIDS in Harris County are alarming and this grant will improve and assist in the prevention programs and treatment strategies currently in place in Harris County. “According to the Harris County Health Department there are at least 27,650 known individuals currently living with HIV/AIDS in Harris County and that, on average, every 7 hours another person is infected with HIV. Even more alarming is that African Americans account for 54% of those infected by the HIV virus and that HIV/AIDS is the leading cause of death among African Americans between the ages of 25 and 44, which is more than heart disease, accidents, cancer, and homicide. “The $12.5 million HIV Emergency Relief grant awarded to the Harris County Health Department will provide funding for many local community organizations fighting on the front lines of the HIV epidemic and to promote new and innovative approaches to HIV testing, prevention, and education. Funding will also be available to 5th generation testing equipment, which can detect HIV antibodies and antigens as early as two weeks from the transmission date and can do it in as little as 60 seconds. “I am very pleased this grant also covers funding to link people living with AIDS to care strategies and funding to increase awareness and implementation of Pre-exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP), a preventative medication that if taken properly will reduce the likelihood of person who is HIV negative from becoming HIV positive. “Finally, this funding will help to eliminate stigma surrounded by HIV testing in various disenfranchised communities, one of those communities being the African American community. “Twenty-five years from now, I hope that we will not be discussing data on prevalence and mortality, but rather how our sustained efforts to prevent the spread of the HIV/AIDs virus has been as successful as the effort to eradicate polio. But if we are to reach that point, we must continue research on treatments and antiretroviral therapies, and ensure that everyone who needs treatment receives it. In order to do this, we have to increase awareness of testing, access to testing, and the accuracy of testing. “The substantial grant awarded to the Harris County Health Department will save lives and bring desperately needed relief to persons living with HIV/AIDS. I am proud to have have sponsored and supported the legislation that provided the funding that made this grant possible.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing Houston in the U.S. House of Representatives, is a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary. She is the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
01.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding reports that North Korea is planning another rocket launch: "Apparently North Korea is planning another rocket launch. This apparent test by North Korea reminds the world precisely why the United States and its international partners must take a firm line against any attempts by radical regimes to pursue nuclear weapons. While the enslaved people of North Korea starve behind a wall of fear and oppression, Kim Jong Un and his inner circle continue to use the pursuit of even more dangerous nuclear weapons technology to threaten our allies in South Korea and Japan in the hopes of legitimizing their brutal rule and blackmailing the United States and our partners into easing sanctions. They will not succeed. "I agree with those who are calling for more pressure on Pyongyang, and I would strongly encourage the U.N. Security Council to impose additional sanctions against North Korea and those with whom it does business. I also stand strongly with our treaty allies, the Republic of Korea and Japan, in the face of this provocation. In the wake of this apparent test, the international community, led by the United States and joined by China, ought to exert additional pressure on North Korea's leaders to demonstrate the united determination of the rest of the world not to allow such nuclear threats to continue. I will be monitoring this situation very closely as developments occur. “I am pleased that the Senate is one step closer to helping put bipartisan legislation strengthening North Korea sanctions on President Obama’s desk. Kim Jong Un is relentlessly pursuing a nuclear arsenal at the expense of his own people, who are starved, tortured and abused, and at the expense of peace and security in Northeast Asia. Now is not the time to stand by while this regime works to build an arsenal capable of hitting the United States. We must cut off Kim Jong Un’s access to the money he needs to fund his nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.” ###
01.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today in response to the announcement by the U.S. Supreme Court that it will review a challenge to the Obama Administration’s executive actions on immigration: “I am confident the Suprme Court will uphold the Administration’s executive actions on immigration because they are consistent with precedents going back to President Eisenhower by focusing on commonsense priorities in immigration enforcement that strengthen our economy, secure our borders, and ensure that national resources are not squandered. “The exercise of these authorities by President Obama is neither novel nor unprecedented. Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the President, as Chief Executive, not only with the duty to enforce laws, but also the authority to decide how to do so. As the Supreme Court held in Arizona v. United States, 132 S. Ct. 2492, 2499 (2012), this executive discretion is broad enough to encompass within its scope the consideration of ‘immediate human concerns.’ “The Immigration Accountability Executive actions announced by the President will help secure the border, hold nearly 5 million undocumented immigrants accountable and ensure that everyone plays by the same rules. These actions will help minimize the harm caused by congressional Republicans obstruction of efforts to reform the nation’s outdated immigration system by cracking down on illegal immigration at the border, prioritizing the deportation of felons not families, and requiring certain undocumented immigrants to pass a criminal background check and pay their fair share of taxes as they register to temporarily stay in the United States without fear of deportation. “In addition to his constitutional authority to enforce the law, the president has broad legal authority under the immigration law, regulations, and court rulings to grant several different types of administrative relief, including (1) deferred action; (2) deferred enforced departure; and (3) parole in place. “Deferred action” is an administrative determination to defer the removal of individuals as an act of prosecutorial discretion. The legal authority for deferred action derives from Congress’s grant of authority to DHS to administer and enforce the immigration laws and the federal judiciary has acknowledged the validity of executive power to grant deferred action since the 1970s. “Deferred enforced departure” (DED) is an administrative determination to defer the enforced departure of immigrants into dangerous situations such as where a natural disaster or domestic conflict has occurred that makes it dangerous for people from those countries to return. The President’s authority to defer enforced departures president derives from his constitutional authority to conduct foreign relations. “Parole in place” is the authority granted the president by Congress to grant what is known as “parole in place,” pursuant to which the attorney general “may . . . in his discretion parole into the United States temporarily under such conditions as he may prescribe only on a case-by-case basis for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit any alien applying for admission to the United States.” “Presidents of both parties have exercised these authorities several times over the past 35 years. For example, in 1980, President Carter exercised parole authority to allow Cubans to enter the U.S., and about 123,000 “Mariel Cubans” were paroled into the U.S. by 1981. In 1987, President Reagan used executive action to allow 200,000 Nicaraguans facing deportation to apply for relief from expulsion and work authorization. “Similarly in the aftermath of Tiananmen Square massacre President George H.W. Bush issued an executive order that granted deferred enforced departure to certain nationals of the People’s Republic of China who were in the United States and President Clinton issued an executive order in 1997 granting DED to certain Haitians who had arrived in the U.S. before Dec. 31, 1995. “As a nation of immigrants, the United States has set the example for the world as to what can be achieved when people of diverse backgrounds, cultures, and experiences come together. President Obama has acted boldly, responsibly, and compassionately in exercising his constitutional authority to enforce the immigration laws in a manner that is effective, humane, within his constitutional and statutory authority, and consistent with our national values and character. “The U.S. Supreme Court should act similarly and reject this misguided challenge to the President’s lawful executive actions on immigration.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.15.2016	For Immediate Release Contact: Mike McQuerry January 15, 2016 (202) 225-3816 Press Statement CBC Members Seek Justice for Sandra Bland HOUSTON, TEXAS – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, together with CBC Chairman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Congresswoman Robin Kelly (IL-02) issued the following statement in response to a letter signed by Congressional Black Caucus Members urging the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate the death of Sandra Bland and the conduct of the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) and Waller County Jail, where she died: “In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, 40 Members of the Congressional Black Caucus seek justice for Sandra Bland, the young woman from Chicago, IL who traveled to Texas to start a new job at her alma mater, Prairie View A&M University, but was stopped by a Texas State Trooper for allegedly failing to signal a lane change, violently arrested for allegedly being uncooperative, and was then found hanging in a Waller County jail cell three days following her arrest. The CBC Members call upon the Department of Justice to conduct investigations into the disturbing circumstances of her death, the pattern or practice of unconstitutional policing by the DPS, and the unconstitutional jail conditions and practices of the Waller County Jail. The tragic and shocking death of Sandra Bland, and failed responses of local officials to provide answers or take appropriate corrective action, demand the attention of the Justice Department,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “I am grateful to be joined by my colleagues and fellow members of the Congressional Black Caucus as we ask the Department of Justice to take a closer look into a case that shaken the nation and continues to dismantle public trust in our criminal justice system. We have an obligation to the American people to maintain transparency in our federal system and to respond appropriately when citizens raise questions. With this request, I remain hopeful that the principles we rely upon and live by will prevail in exposing and uprooting any and all bad actors, policies, practices, or cases that have resulted in unlawful and unjust loss of liberty and life. We must continue to say her name and fight for justice.” “The gross misconduct by law enforcement officials relative to the arrest of Sandra Bland is troubling to many of us,” said CBC Chairman G. K. Butterfield. “There is no doubt that law enforcement’s deplorable treatment of Ms. Bland during her arrest and confinement directly contributed to her untimely death. That’s why members of the Congressional Black Caucus are calling for a full investigation into the circumstances surrounding her death. Our country’s criminal justice system faces a number of challenges and without significant reforms, including better training for law enforcement officials in identifying mental illness, we are concerned that victims like Ms. Bland will continue to fall through the cracks.” “The murky circumstances surrounding Sandra Bland’s arrest and subsequent death present many troubling questions that the Bland family and the broader community deserve answers to,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly. “A pattern and practice investigation is needed in order to ensure that those answers are true, acc urate and unbiased and that appropriate steps are taken to prevent an incident like this from recurring in the future.” Click here to view text of letter. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent deadly blasts and shootout in Indonesia capital of Jakarta today: “The United States condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attack today in Jakarta, Indonesia that killed and wounded several--including law enforcement officers. My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victims of this heinous attack. “The United States is strongly committed to our strategic partnership with Indonesia and will stand by the Government of Indonesia as it works to bring those responsible for this barbaric terrorist attack to justice and build a more secure future.” ###
01.08.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 292,000 jobs in December. With businesses adding 275,000 jobs last month, December represents the 70th consecutive month of private sector job growth: “December's robust jobs numbers represent strong progress for the economy. Overall for 2015, 2.65 million jobs have been created – the second best year of job gains since 1999. We have reached yet another milestone for our economy: 70 months of uninterrupted private sector job creation totaling 14.1 million jobs. Yet the American people need and deserve more action to raise wages. "Congress must spend 2016 working to create more good-paying jobs and raise the paychecks of hard-working American families. However, Republicans' first act of the New Year was to renew their tired, dead-end obsession with attacking women’s health. “Republicans’ radical priorities are all too clear. While Republicans try to take family planning and life-saving preventive care away from America’s women, Democrats will be working to create jobs, grow our economy and increase the paychecks of America's working families.” # # #
12.22.2015	HOUSTON, TEXAS – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement after a Texas grand jury returned no indictments in the jailhouse death of Sandra Bland: “I was deeply saddened by the death of Sandra Bland, a 28 year old woman who died in Waller County Jail in Hempstead, Texas. The facts and circumstances of Ms. Bland’s death shocked the nation, warranting independent investigations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Department of Justice. Too many questions remain surrounding the death of this young, vital and dynamic woman, who was stopped for allegedly failing to signal a lane change, arrested for allegedly being uncooperative, and is then found hanging in her jail cell three days later. “It is disappointing that the local officials have not produced answers that Ms. Bland’ family and the rest of this country expect and deserve. The Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation must take a closer look. At a minimum, the practices and policies that have led to the deaths of multiple persons in custody at Waller County Jail call for immediate and thorough corrective action. “Additionally, we cannot forget the deep racial divides that exist in Hempstead, Texas and the continued concern over racially discriminatory practices that may exist in the Waller County Sherriff’s Office. In particular, I am urging the Department of Justice to conduct a thorough and vigilant investigation into the operations of the Waller County Sherriff’s Office. Racism has no place in law enforcement and should not be tolerated at any level or under any circumstances. “We have an obligation to the American people to maintain transparency in our federal system and to respond appropriately when citizens raise questions. I remain hopeful that justice will prevail in exposing and uprooting any and all bad actors, policies, practices, or cases that have resulted in unlawful and unjust loss of liberty and life. I continue to express my condolences to the family and will continue to keep them in my thoughts during this very difficult time.” ###
12.21.2015	HOUSTON, TX – Congresswoman Jackson Lee today will present the Purple Heart to Vietnam Veteran and Constituent Earl J. Barnes. The Purple Heart is awarded to members of the armed forces of the U.S. who are wounded by an instrument of war in the hands of the enemy and posthumously to the next of kin in the name of those who are killed in action or die of wounds received in action. It is a combat decoration. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “The award known as the Purple Heart has a history that reaches back to the waning days of the American Revolution. It is one of the most recognized and respected medals awarded to members of the U.S. armed forces. Introduced as the ‘Badge of Military Merit’ by General George Washington in 1782, the Purple Heart is also the nation’s oldest military award. In military terms, the award had “broken service,” as it was ignored for nearly 150 years until it was re-introduced on February 22, 1932, on the 200th anniversary of George Washington’s birth. The Continental Congress had forbidden General George Washington from granting commissions and promotions in rank to recognize merit. Yet Washington wanted to honor merit, particularly among the enlisted soldiers. “On August 7, 1782, from his headquarters in Newburgh, New York, General George Washington wrote: ‘... The General ever desirous to cherish virtuous ambition in his soldiers, as well as to foster and encourage every species of Military merit directs whenever any singularly meritorious action is performed, the author of it shall be permitted to wear on his facings, over his left breast, the figure of a heart in purple cloth or silk edged with narrow lace or binding.’ “This award was open only to enlisted men and granted them the distinction of being permitted to pass all guards and sentinels as could commissioned-officers. The names of the recipients were to have been kept in a "Book of Merit" (which has never been recovered). At the present time there are three known recipients of the Badge of Military Merit: Sergeant Elijah Churchill, 2nd Continental Dragoons; Sergeant William Brown, 5th and Sergeant Daniel Bissel, 2nd Connecticut Continental Line Infantry. “Washington stated that the award was to be a permanent one, but once the Revolution ended, the Badge of Merit was all but forgotten until the 20th century. General John J. "Blackjack" Pershing suggested a need for an award for merit in 1918, but it was not until 1932 that the Purple Heart was created in recognition of Washington's ideals and for the bicentennial of his birth. General Order No.3 announced the establishment of the award: “On May 28, 1932, 137 World War I veterans were conferred their Purple Hearts at Temple Hill, in New Windsor, NY. Temple Hill was the site of the New Windsor Cantonment, which was the final encampment of the Continental Army in the winter of 1782-1783. Today, the National Purple Heart continues the tradition begun here in 1932, of honoring those who have earned the Purple Heart. “Today we honor Sergeant Earl J. Barnes in the same vain and purpose as General Washington did 1782. Sgt. Barnes’ service to this nation and his valor on the battlefield is most deserving of this prestigious honor. He sacrificed his body so that the body of our Constitution could live on. It took four years for him to recover from his combat wounds and our nation will forever be grateful for his service. As General Washington did in 1782, I am most pleased to confer the Purple Heart to Sergeant Earl J. Barnes on this the 21st day of December 2015 in the year of our Lord. Again thank you for your service to the greatest nation on earth and we wish you well as you fight yet another battle. May God Bless You! May God Bless America.” ###
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today, House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) released the following statement after the White House announced President Obama granted commutations to 95 individuals, including 11 from Texas: “I am encouraged by President Obama’s commutation of sentences of 95 individuals today – who were all victims of unjust sentencing. Many of these men and women would have been released and contributing back to society already had they been convicted under today’s laws or reform proposals. “I welcome and applaud the commutations of the sentences of these individuals. Incarcerating people for unwarranted lengths of time serves no constructive purpose. The President has recognized this, as has Attorney General Loretta Lynch, and I urge the Administration to take additional action to provide much needed relief to the multitude of deserving individuals locked away for inappropriate, and often inhumane, periods of time. “Of course, the need to engage in such a broad review of sentences exists largely because our sentencing laws and policies, particularly for drug offenses, urgently need to be changed. In November, the House Committee on the Judiciary took a step in this direction when we voted to send the Sentencing Reform Act of 2015 to the full House for consideration. I am heartened by the bipartisan collaboration between myself, Chairman Goodlatte, and Ranking Member Conyers on this reform measure, and optimistic that this effort will bear meaningful fruit. “But make no mistake, there is still much more to be done. In the New Year, we will introduce and hope to move bipartisan legislation reforming our federal prisons, youth justice, policing methods, civil asset forfeiture laws, and criminal procedures. But even after we get these measures to the President’s desk, much more work will remain. “The United States incarcerates nearly 25 percent of the world’s inmates, even though it only has 5 percent of the world’s population. Thirty years ago, there were less than 30,000 inmates in the federal system; today, there are nearly 216,000, an increase of 800 percent! African Americans and Hispanics comprise more than 6 in 10 federal inmates incarcerated for drug offenses. And African American offenders receive sentences that are 10 percent longer than white offenders for the same crimes and are 21 percent more likely to receive mandatory-minimum sentences than white defendants according to the U.S. Sentencing Commission. “There is no shortage of stories about the damage done to the lives of thousands of individuals and their families, such as Sharanda Jones, by our nation’s draconian sentencing laws and ‘War on Drugs.’ Increased use of executive clemency power by the President plays an essential role in reforming our criminal justice system and reducing taxpayer expense on an inefficient system. As we take bipartisan steps to reform the system, it is my sincere hope that the President continues to give the deserving individuals within that system both a second look and a second chance. ###
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee a Senior Member of House Judiciary Committee and House Homeland Security Committee, voted to adopt, by a vote of 316 to 113, the FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. This measure funds the government for FY 2016. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “Today I voted to avert a disastrous Republican government shutdown and to make vital investments in the future of America’s working families. The bill implements the Bipartisan Budget Agreement that was adopted by Congress in October. The bill is not perfect; it is a bipartisan compromise. It is not the bill I would have written, but it is huge victory for working families over the Republican Congress’s special interest priorities. “In this Omnibus package, Democrats won enormous improvements over the destructive FY 2016 appropriations bills Republicans wrote earlier this year. For most of this year, Republicans have been trying to make devastating cuts to our investments in the future of our hard-working American families – cuts that would kill jobs and weaken our economic growth. For example, the House GOP bill would have slashed education initiatives by $2.5 billion below 2015 and also cut HHS funding below the 2015 level. In stark contrast, this final bill makes strong investments in areas that will create jobs and grow the economy, such as renewable energy, education, research, and infrastructure. “I was happy that this bill included language I authored that directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide Congress with a report on the feasibility of producing a risk-informed plan to address critical infrastructure failures that may have cascading effects on a range of critical infrastructures. The section is intended to inform Congress on the real-world implications of multiple failures of critical infrastructures because of their interdependence such as electric power and its relationship to clean drinking water, port operations and refinery production. “The Omnibus also contains measures and initiatives which I championed which will provide the following: $8.9 billion in international security as we continue to fight the war on terror and secure our world as recommended in my bill H.R. 528-The Victims of Terror Support Fund; $5.6 billion in the protection of victims of terror at our country’s embassies across the globe; $408 in funding for the Terrorist Victims Compensation Fund to recover and reintegrate victims of terror as recommended in my bill H.R 528; $20 million providing religious freedom, championed in my religious freedom bill, H.R. 290- Calling for the Global Repeal of Blasphemy Laws; $8.5 billion in global health programs, measures which I championed in the house; and $16.3 billion for the promotion of Democracy and the Rule of Law as encapsulated in my 2015 briefing series, “Women Peace and Security.” “The bill’s investments in priorities include the following: Law Enforcement: The bill provides $187 million for COPS hiring grants, $7 million above the 2015 level and $187 million above the House GOP bill, which had eliminated the hiring grants. The bill also provides $80 million for the Community Policing Initiative, including $22.5 million for body-worn cameras and $15 million for Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants, an increase over the House bill. Infrastructure: Through my leadership TIGER grants have benefited Houston, Texas. The popular TIGER grants are being used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth. The House GOP bill had slashed TIGER grants by 80 percent, killing jobs, but this bill restores the funding to the 2015 level of $500 million. Renewable Energy: Provides a major boost to renewable energy by extending the wind Production Tax Credit for five years (through 2019), and extending the solar Investment Tax Credit for five years (through 2021), while phasing both credits down somewhat over time. Extending the solar tax credit is estimated to create 61,000 jobs in 2017 alone. It is also estimated that the wind industry will grow to over 100,000 jobs over four years with the renewed wind tax credit. Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy R&D: Provides an 8 percent increase over 2015 for R&D activities in the pursuit of new clean energy and energy efficiency technologies. Overall Education: The bill restores the $2.5 billion cut in education that the GOP had proposed and also makes critical additional investments of $1.4 billion above 2015, in such areas as Title I that serves 24 million at-risk students. Early Learning: Investing in Head Start produces results – and this bill invests nearly $400 million more than the House GOP bill and nearly $600 million more than 2015 in this vital initiative. The bill also provides $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, assisting 18 states across the country. Medical Research: Medical research at NIH has been underfunded for the last several years. This bill provides $900 million more than the House GOP bill and $2 billion more than 2015 for this life-saving research. “The measure also does not include numerous GOP ideological riders that would have had damaging impacts on America’s women, consumers, workers, and children. The damaging GOP “poison pill” riders that were removed from the final bill include: GOP riders that would have limited women’s access to the full range of comprehensive health care services, including by defunding Planned Parenthood. GOP riders that would have gutted the Dodd-Frank provisions that hold big Wall Street banks accountable. GOP riders that would have undermined the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act, jeopardizing the health of our children and working families. GOP riders that would have blocked moving forward on addressing climate change and reducing damaging carbon emissions. GOP riders that would have blocked protections that allow workers to form unions and help them save for retirement. “Finally, the Omnibus includes several other important provisions: Reauthorizes the key James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, making the Health Program permanent and reauthorizing the Victims Compensation Fund for five years; Delays the so-called “Cadillac” tax, a tax on employer-provided health plans worth over a certain threshold, for two years – from 2018 to 2020; Includes the provisions of the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which addresses issues raised by the terrorist attacks in Paris with reforms to the program; and Reauthorizes the Land and Conservation Fund, which is one of our country’s most successful outdoor recreation and conservation programs and which Republicans allowed to expire on September 30. “By passing this bill, Congress has ended the specter of a possible Republican government shutdown that the country has been facing all fall. I hope that the Republicans will now abandon their practice of creating one manufactured crisis after another and join Democrats in developing bipartisan legislation that creates jobs, strengthens the middle class, and enhances our national security. The enactment of this bill today can be one step in moving the country forward.” ###
12.17.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee released the following statement regarding the Taiwanese governments newly constructed Lighthouse and renovated wharf on the Taiping Island: “On December 12, 2015, the government of the ROC (Taiwan) inaugurated the opening of a renovated wharf and newly constructed lighthouse on Taiping Island, demonstrating Taiwan’s commitment to making Taiping Island a hub of humanitarian assistance, disaster relief and emergency rescue to passing vessels in the South China Sea. “Earlier in May this year, Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou proposed the South China Sea Initiative, calling on countries in the region to shelve disputes, promote joint resource development, and respect the principles and spirit of all relevant international law. I welcome Taiwan’s peaceful implementation and commitment and look forward to working together to transform the South China Sea into a Sea of Peace and Cooperation.” ###
12.16.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the House Judiciary Committee where she is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, today joined U.S. Rep David N. Cicilline (D-RI) and other gun violence prevention advocates to introduce the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 and prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of new military-style weapons and high-capacity magazines. The Congresswoman issued the following statement: “Assault weapons and high-capacity magazines are the weapon of choice for mass shooters in the United States. We cannot continue to stand by as these weapons of war are bought and sold freely. I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015. This bill will save lives and reduce the toll of gun violence in our country. The Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 will prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: • Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; • Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; • Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; • Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; • And 157 specifically-named and listed firearms. “The bill also sets new standards to prevent ‘default proceeds’ – the standard that allows firearms dealers to complete a sale if a buyer’s background check is not completed within three days. Under the proposed law, the background check period will be extended to 14 days for the sale or transfer of an existing assault weapon. If it is determined that a gun was sold to a prohibited individual, the FBI will be required to notify federal, state, and local law enforcement so the weapon can be retrieved as quickly as possible and the buyer can be held accountable for violating federal law. “For over 10 years in many sessions of Congress I have introduced many bills dealing with gun violence and how we can prevent acts such as this. I have been an advocate for more gun safety laws in America since I have arrived here in Congress. In one year on average, almost 100,000 people in America are shot or killed with a gun. Over a million people have been killed with guns in the United States since 1968. U.S. homicide rates are 6.9 times higher than rates in 22 other populous high-income countries combined, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. In order to promote safety for our children it is imperative that this Congress brings to the House floor NOW the following gun safety laws: “This Congress must rise above partisan politics and now come together to pass important gun safety laws. The safety of America should be at the forefront when it comes to making these gun safety laws. The politics of outside groups like the NRA should not play a factor when we consider the safety of our citizens. We must also look at gun violence in other cities too such as Chicago where over the last few years a number of school age kids have been killed with guns. “Assault weapons were used in attacks last month in San Bernardino and Colorado Springs. Shooters also used them to commit mass murder at Sandy Hook Elementary School, a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado, and a community college in Roseburg, Oregon. When an assault weapon or a high-capacity magazine is used in a shooting, the number of victims who are killed increases by 63%.” ###
11.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee released the following statement regarding the Sentencing Reform Act (H.R. 3713), which passed out of the House Judiciary Committee today by voice vote: “Today we make a significant statement and take action towards reducing and eliminating mass incarceration in this nation. We take leaps of faith to recognize the importance of restoration and rehabilitation. This is not a compromise or best effort. It is actually a reality of laws and provisions that will in fact be placed in the criminal justice system giving added tools to defense counsel and prosecutors to have a fair and even playing field for those nonviolent offenders who have come in the cross hairs of the criminal justice system and need another opportunity. It will be a lifeline for families who have waited for years for their loved ones to be released. “When we began this historic process a few months ago, there were many who doubted our ability to reach an agreement. Consensus is not something we see often in the Halls of Congress. We began our task with the knowledge that truly meaningful sentencing reform requires us to look at every piece of the system—from policing, to charging and convicting, and from sentencing, to the collateral consequences awaiting incarcerated individuals. “As such, we set our sights on comprehensive reform that tackles sentencing, prisons, overcriminalization, youth justice, civil asset forfeiture, reentry, policing, criminal procedures, and, the most recent addition, mental illness. Each piece is critically necessary, but we knew that sentencing reform would truly test the seriousness of our commitment to collaboration. That is why we tackled it head on. “With HR 3713 - the Sentencing Reform Act of 2015, we unify to reject a system that is often more effective at creating criminals and collateral damage than actual justice. This legislation is strong and thoughtful and, as shown by the data, it will reduce mass incarceration. Over 11,500 individuals, who are currently incarcerated, will be eligible for retroactive relief. Over 4,000 more will benefit each years. Combined, this is over 50,000 in ten years. These estimates are conservative, as not all the positive reforms can be quantified. “There is something about our legislation that is different, something that gives me hope for our entire reform effort: our bipartisan legislation can get to the President. Our current path is unsustainable. We know the numbers: less than 5% of the world’s population, but 25% of the world’s prisoners; ranked 1st in incarceration with over 2.2 million incarcerated adults, another 4.75 million under supervision, and over 54,000 juveniles in detention; and our federal government is our largest jailer. “The cost of this system is incredibly high, not just in dollars spent, but also in dollars lost. Every person put in a prison, is a person who cannot contribute to a family, community, or society. Worse, this system takes an incredible human toll, with the cycle of incarceration in a constant state of destruction. These costs—including the cost to our greater sense of humanity—bring us to this moment. Enactment of this legislation will not fix the entire criminal justice system, but it will be a first step in the process of unburdening ourselves and our nation of these unbearable costs, repairing the damage we have inflicted, and replacing injustice with justice. I was pleased that an amendment in which I co-sponsored was accepted that would take into effect the mental condition of an offender who would be sentenced. “We stand at a unique moment, where a bipartisan consensus in Congress has emerged around the critical need to improve our criminal justice system, and the White House supports these efforts. We are closer than ever to achieving meaningful criminal justice reform, a legislative priority for President Obama, who has urged Congress to pass this bill. In remarks on criminal justice reform delivered earlier this month, discussing the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act of 2015 and the Sentencing Reform Act of 2015, the President said: ‘I urgently encourage both the Senate and the House to pass these bills. It will not completely change the system overnight, but it will lock in some basic principles that we understand are going to make us a fairer and safer society over the long term.’ We should follow the President’s lead. I look forward to this Bill being signed into law.” ###
11.13.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court announcing today that it will hear a challenge to key parts of Texas' 2013 abortion law that pro-abortion rights groups say is one of the strictest in the nation: “For more than forty years, the Supreme Court has said the constitution protects a woman’s right to make her own decisions about her health and family. Now the Court must reject political schemes to prevent women from acting on these personal decisions. “These laws have been developed by politicians who are sneaking around the constitution to end abortion by preventing women from accessing legal health services. Playing politics with women's health is not just wrong, it is dangerous. Closing clinics in our communities, especially in Texas, will not end the need for abortion—it forces women to take matters into their own hands. “We cannot leave our daughters with fewer rights than their mothers and grandmothers—it is time the Supreme Court reaffirm our nation’s commitment to women’s basic dignity. When women make their own reproductive choices, they lead healthier lives and are able plan for their career and their livelihoods. Laws, like the one in Texas, that attempt to deprive women of these choices endanger us. For years, anti-choice activists have tried to overturn Roe vs. Wade and strip women of their fundamental rights. Those efforts have failed, because most Americans trust women to make our own decisions about when and with whom we have families. These deceptive laws, designed to close clinics, exist in forty-four states and the District of Columbia, so make no mistake – this is not just about Texas. It is about undermining the fundamental human rights of women all over this country. “Texas is the second largest state in the U.S. in land mass and population, and this law threatens to take the number of clinics down from 19 to just 10 clinics for 5.4 million women of reproductive age. If the Supreme Court fails to act, a woman in El Paso would have to drive more than 500 miles—or 7.5 hours— roundtrip to San Antonio to get abortion care in her home state. “This case should not exist. The Texas law on which is it based is an outright attack on women and a shameless effort to ban nearly all abortions in Texas. That being said, the Court now has the opportunity to decide whether we will continue to allow elected officials to play politics with women’s health. This case represents the greatest threat to women’s reproductive freedom since the Supreme Court decided Roe vs. Wade over 40 years ago. Laws like the ones being challenged in Texas are designed to subvert the Constitution and end the right to a safe and legal abortion.” ###
11.09.2015	November 5, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, and Ranking Member on the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Investigations released the following statement regarding the loss of the Russian commercial airliner that crashed in Egypt: “What caused of the crash of the Russian passenger in Egypt remains to be determined conclusively. But we do know that this tragedy illustrates the need for the United States to be more vigilant in securing commercial air travel. The Transportation Security Administration and its thousands of professionals are dedicated to making commercial air travel safe and secure from terrorist threats. Their professionalism, courage, and dedication have taken the nation from a time when people were fearful of flight to millions of people boarding flights every day. “Sequestration, however, is adversely affecting our ability to ensure that TSA personnel have the funding, technological resources, and continuous training needed to anticipate and counter new and emerging threats to safe air travel. “I believe that we must reevaluate how checked baggage is processed at airports and must also take stronger measures to identify and eliminate any vulnerabilities that may exist in cargo areas of commercial airliners. Most importantly we must ensure that TSA has the resources, funding, and support from policy makers needed to get the job done.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
11.04.2015	November 3, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Committee on Judiciary and House Committee on Homeland Security and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today regarding the Jackson Lee/Sewell amendments that were accepted to H.R. 22 the Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy Act (DRIVE Act): “Democrats are championing strong, smart investments in the infrastructure of America – infrastructure that creates jobs, improves quality of life and drives commerce. That is why throughout this year Democrats have been fighting for a robust, long-term highway bill to create good-paying jobs rebuilding America. Republicans, however, have consistently short-changed job-creating investments in the roads, bridges and transit systems our nation needs. “This week, the House will consider a modest bipartisan Highway bill package – a six-year transportation authorization at current funding levels plus inflation, with only three years’ worth paid-for. Today, I along with Congresswoman Terri Sewell from Alabama offered two amendments added to this Bill today. The first Jackson Lee/Sewell Amendment makes a good bill even better by ensuring that the national goals of strengthening our nation’s transportation and infrastructure is aided by innovation. “The Jackson Lee/Sewell amendment improves this good bill by ensuring that the goals of improving transportation efficiency and safety take into consideration the topic of rest stop, and other parking and the topic of public safety. This Amendment seeks a public safety report to be provided to the House and Senate Transportation Committees on the security of locations that are intended to encourage public use of alternative transportation, as well as personal transportation parking areas. An essential part of the success of public transportation usage is the ability of automobile drivers to park their vehicles in safety. More than 1 in 10 property crimes occur in parking lots or garages. The report will provide an opportunity for Congress to do more to enhance the safety of parking areas that are used by students, women, seniors, disabled, and other vulnerable members of the public. “The second Jackson Lee/Sewell amendment will allow Congress to take into consideration how IoT technologies can be used to make public transportation, safer, more convenient to the elderly and disabled, and how it may improve mass and personal transportation efficiency. As this bill goes to conference, Democrats will continue to fight for bigger investments in the transportation infrastructure American communities need to thrive in the 21st century. “However, with such modest funding levels, and only three years paid-for, this Highway bill is only a small first step in addressing the vast and urgent infrastructure needs of communities across America. Democrats will continue to fight to do more to repair and modernize our infrastructure to create good-paying jobs and grow the wages of hard-working American families.” ###
10.29.2015	Washington, DC - The Houston Housing Authority Chairman Lance Gilliam informed leaders of the Latter Day Deliverance Revival Church that the Authority has ended its efforts to acquire three vacant tracts owned by the church in Houston's Fifth Ward. “I applaud the Houston Housing Authority for maintaining their commitment to rebuilding affordable housing in the historic Fifth Ward and for making every effort to work with the church leaders, pastor, and congregants to rebuild all 63 homes. The decision to move forward with the first phase is a down payment toward rebuilding this community and to rebuild the lives of those families who lost their homes,” stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. The Houston Housing Authority provides affordable homes and services to more than 58,000 low-income Houstonians, including over 17,000 families housed through the Housing Choice Voucher Program and another 5,700 living in 25 public housing and tax credit developments around the city. HHA also administers one of the nation’s largest voucher program exclusively serving homeless veterans. Congresswoman Jackson Lee further stated, "This process is indicative of our American democracy and the rights we have as public, private, and religious entities. I look forward to the completion of this entire development to enhance this vital area in the Fifth Ward." ###
10.29.2015	October 28, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today regarding today by the House of Representatives of the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Agreement which prevents a shutdown of the federal government and a default on the national debt while protecting Medicare recipients from unaffordable premium increases and Social Security recipients from benefit cuts: “I carefully studied the Bipartisan Budget Agreement and concluded that on balance that it represented a better for choice for our nation than the alternative, which would have resulted in government shutdown, loss of the full faith and credit of the United States, and led to drastic increases in Medicare premiums for seniors and benefit cuts for many Social Security recipients. “The Bipartisan Budget Agreement I supported contains specific provisions that prevent an increase of nearly 50 percent in the Medicare Part B premium for 2016 and 2017 by spreading out the cost of replenishing the Medicare Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund over a number of years. “Specifically, without the Bipartisan Budget Agreement the monthly 2015 Part B premium of $104.90 would have increased by $54.40 in 2016 to $159.30. Because of the congressional action taken today, Medicare beneficiaries will not pay more than $120 for the Medicare Part B premiums. “Similarly, I am proud to have voted today for legislation that will ensure that the Social Security Disability Insurance program continues to provide the full benefits that workers have earned instead of the 20 percent cut in benefits that would occurred at the end of 2016. “The Bipartisan Budget Agreement maintains the hold harmless provision in current law and prevents a dramatic premium increase on beneficiaries not held harmless by setting a new 2016 basic Part B premium for the beneficiaries not held harmless at $120, which is the amount the Part B premium would otherwise be for all beneficiaries in 2016 if the hold harmless provision in current law did not apply. “Finally, weighing in favor of the Bipartisan Budget Agreement is the fact that it provides $80 billion in sequestration relief over two years, which holds the promise of increased investments in critical areas such as basic research in health and science, education, veterans’ medical care, and job training. That means we will be able invest an additional $1 billion in the National Institutes of Health to find treatments and cures for disease and provide funding for 17,000 more children to attend Head Start and more health care for our deserving veterans. “On balance, the Bipartisan Budget Agreement moves our nation forward. That is why it was so strongly supported by broad and diverse range of organizations representing seniors, consumers, small businesses, veterans, and working families. Among them are the AARP, the National Education Association, and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human, the AFL-CIO, and SEIU. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.27.2015	October 26, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today regarding her legislation to create a fund to protect victims terrorized by Boko Haram: “As a result of terrorism in the region and Boko Haram in particular in Nigeria, recent reports inform us that Nigeria has the highest number of displaced persons in Africa and the third largest in the world following Syria and Columbia, in part because of security issues and the continual threat of Boko Haram. “As founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Nigeria Caucus and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, the recovery and reintegration of the victims of Boko Haram, including the Chibok girls should be a top priority and an important part of the larger strategy to combat the scourge of Boko Haram. “I continue to have a deep appreciation of the patriotism, resilience, and commitment of the Nigerian people under the leadership of their newly democratically elected President Muhammadu Buhari. I also commend the Obama Administration’s recent commitment of troops in Africa to combat Boko Haram. The United States Department of Justice Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative seized $458 million from former Nigerian Dictator Sanni Abacha. To date, the forfeited fund is the largest kleptocracy forfeiture action ever brought in the United States. Upon recovery of the stolen or corruption-related assets, the Attorney General as the Chief Prosecutor of the United States has the discretion to dispose of the funds as she deems fit. “In May of this year (2015), I wrote a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch expressing to her the urgent need to establish a Victims of Terror Protection Fund for the victims of Boko Haram, the ISIS-affiliated terrorist group devastating Nigeria. Despite the written bipartisan support of over 25 Members of Congress, the Attorney General has not taken action. “Recovered victims displaced by terrorist activity will be in dire need of protection and support. A Victim of Terror Protection Fund can supply health aid, educational support, and overall improved social welfare of these victims of terror. The cases of Equatorial Guinea and Kazakhstan are examples of prior kleptocracy initiatives that have been created to benefit communities and victims in need of support and protection. “To succeed at all our objectives, Nigeria must have continued U.S. support in protecting victims of terror, technical training, logistical and infrastructural capabilities and professionalizing its military force to battle Boko Haram. “Our goal is that these forfeited assets are made available for the thousands of Boko Haram victims to be reintegrated back into a life of dignity which all human beings deserve. Support for reintegration of victims and survivors of violent extremism will facilitate healing for the next generation of youth who can be instrumental in combatting violent extremism-putting us on the path towards global security.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today regarding the White House announcement of $70 million grant program for girls education programs in Pakistan and First Lady Michelle Obama’s ‘Let Girls Learn’ initiative: “As founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, the education and empowerment of girls is an issue near and dear to me.” I have worked tirelessly to advance the rights of girls to educational opportunity from Pakistan to Nigeria and beyond. That is why I introduced H.R. 69, legislation awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai in recognition of her advocacy is support of access to education for young girls in Pakistan and around the world. H.R. 69 is enjoys the support of more than 50 of my colleagues in the House of Representatives. “The provision of $70 million to support programs benefitting more than 200,000 adolescent girls aged 10-19 is very critical since education is imperative for young girls and the trajectory of their destinies as women. I commend the partnership between First Lady Michelle Obama, Mrs. Kalsoom Nawaz Sharif, spouse of Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, and Mrs. Maryam Nawaz Sharif, the daughter of Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.” “The ‘Let Girls Learn’ (Pakistan) Initiative will facilitate public-private partnerships and collaborations to advance girls' education and empowerment. It is an amazing platform that will catalyze economic, political and social frameworks to strengthen adolescent girls' education and empowerment in Pakistan. As shown in the case of Malala Yousafzai who was shot in the head for seeking to be educated, young women in Pakistan face barriers to educational opportunities ranging from violence to poverty, to cultural norms, and geographic isolation. “However, Malala gives us hope and represents the future of Pakistan and inspires girls in Pakistan who will benefit from the Let Girls Learn Initiative. This Initiative invests in the future of Pakistan: young girls who will be filling important leadership roles in the Pakistani government and businesses in Pakistan and around the globe. “Malala’s actions demonstrate the local and global difference one person - and one initiative like ‘Let Girls Learn’ - can make. When girls thrive, women thrive. When women thrive, the nation thrives. If each of the 200,000 initial beneficiaries of the ‘Let Girls Learn’ initiative in Pakistan positively impacts five other lives, we will have changed the future for the better of a million girls. That is a goal worthy of our support.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
10.13.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, announces a grant of over $12 million in federal funds to improve an existing storm water detention basin and provide for the construction of a new storm water detention basin. The project when completed will lower flood water surface elevations and reduce structure flooding. This action also includes stream improvement and activities to accommodate flow into and out of the proposed storm water detention basins. The project will involve tracts of land located on the north side of Houston within the Greens Bayou Watershed. This grant will add approximately 3,219 acre-feet of storm water storage volume. The area of focus for the project is a portion of Greens Bayou approximately 2 miles along W. Greens Road from Ella Blvd. to Imperial Valley Drive that experiences significant flood damages. Funds for phase 1 were awarded on November 18, 2010, in the amount of $1,636,875. “I applaud FEMA’s for making additional funds available to address flood remediation in the Greens Bayou Watershed. But the work cannot stop with this grant—flooding in the Houston area in the spring was devastating and heart breaking for the thousands of residents and business owners who lost property, and especially for those who lost loved ones. I will continue to work in Washington to bring attention to the impacted flooding is having on Houston residents, while I work with Federal agencies on flood remediation and relief.” ###
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, held a press conference with Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Ranking Member John Conyers, and other members of the House Judiciary Committee to unveil the “Sentencing Reform Act of 2015.” This bipartisan sentencing reform legislation is the first of several bills that will be introduced as a result of the Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “Today is an important day in Washington, DC. I, along with Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member John Conyers and other Judiciary Members, unveiled the ‘Sentencing Reform Act of 2015.’ I want to extend my thanks to my Colleagues on the Judiciary Committee for their hard work and collaboration in introducing this meaningful bipartisan reform legislation. I look forward to continuing the work with my Colleagues on additional criminal justice reform legislation in other critical areas that we will be unveiling over the next few weeks. “We come together today armed not only with the knowledge that our criminal justice system is deeply flawed, but with the commitment to fix these flaws. The cost of this system is incredibly high, not just in dollars spent, but also in dollars lost. Every person taken out of a community and placed into a prison is a person who cannot contribute to a family, a community, and our society. Worse, this system takes an incredible human toll, with the cycle of incarceration in a constant state of destruction. “Today, with this legislation, we unify to reject a system that is often more effective at creating criminals and collateral damage than actual justice. We have come together for change. I am sure that my Chairman and Ranking Member would agree that, when we began this process a few months ago, we were not particularly optimistic about reaching an agreement on sentencing reform. In fact, the reason we dug into it first is because we knew how hard it would be. “Along the way, however, we were inspired by the ideas of many of our House colleagues during this and in past Congresses, and by our colleagues in the Senate who undertook a similar effort months before. In fact, our negotiations in the House largely mirrored those in the Senate – we wanted to decrease mandatory minimums, expand the safety valve, and apply the Fair Sentencing Act retroactively. “This is not surprising. The injustices of our system are very well known and the solutions are rather common sense and straight forward. Our legislation lowers the many mandatory minimum recidivist penalties, expands the safety valve, and adds a second safety valve to provide greater relief to the individuals most deserving. In doing this, we recognize that locking people up for decades and decades does not work. “This legislation also applies the Fair Sentencing Act retroactively and, in doing so, makes very clear that those who only received a partial benefit of the FSA under the Sentencing Guidelines changes can now come back and get the full benefit. On its own, this reform will help over 6,000 inmates – about 85% of whom are black – and bring us one step closer to rectifying the fundamental injustice of the crack-powder disparity. Notably, this bill does not contain the new mandatory minimums that are in the recently released Senate bill. “Such meaningful reforms would not be possible without the leadership of those who stood with me today and to those in the Senate—colleagues on the right and left—and the many individuals and advocates who laid the foundation for us. Let me conclude by saying, in my service as Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Crime Subcommittee, I have been truly humbled to take on this task, one of the most important tasks of my lifetime. This task—OUR TASK—is monumental, and it is certainly not easy, but with the introduction of this legislation today, we are stating not only that we are up for the challenge, but that we pledge to see it through. “In the coming days, as we continue building support for this legislation, I ask that we not lose sight of our ultimate goal: to get a sentencing reform bill to the President’s desk. I implore us not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. We cannot tell those languishing in prison that we failed to help them because we couldn’t get everything that we want or we had to make some tough compromises. The reality is that we must work together, all sides, in order to get something to the President. By working with my Colleagues on both sides of the aisle I feel that we are putting forth the effort that has the best possible chance of success. Because, at the end of the day, for the thousands of individuals in prison now or who may face a prison sentence later, getting a bill to the President’s desk is the only thing that matters. Today I truly optimistic that we can make that a reality.” ###
09.10.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement after the introduction of the Fair Chance Act: “As Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Crime Subcommittee, it is my honor to join colleagues from the right and left today as we introduce this critical piece of legislation. To all those who worked tirelessly to make this day possible—I thank you. “In particular, I am grateful to those in the business community who have led the way by removing the criminal history box from their applications. On its face, the Fair Chance Act of 2015 reforms the hiring practices of the federal government—practices that have long deserved a critical look. I commend my colleague and longtime friend Elijah Cummings for his leadership on this issue. “At its roots, this bill is a response to our broken criminal justice system and the epidemic of mass incarceration. This bill acknowledges that one of the most difficult parts of coming into the criminal justice system is the journey of coming out of it. For an individual who has served their time and paid their debt, the process of re-entering society is paved with tremendous, and often insurmountable, obstacles. “Roughly 70 million people in the United States have a criminal record—this is nearly one in every three adults. About 700,000 incarcerated individuals re-enter our communities each year. Research, experience, and common sense tell us that access to employment is to successful re-entry. Studies have shown that employment is the single most important influence on decreasing recidivism. “But for formerly incarcerated individuals, the risks associated with unemployment extend beyond recidivism. We know that there is a direct link between unemployment and depression. One survey revealed the rate of depression among unemployed individuals was double that of employed individuals. Upon release, the risk of depression is already higher for formerly incarcerated individuals than that of the general public. That risk is undoubtedly exacerbated when combined with the shame and burden of unemployment. “That is why it is especially meaningful that we are introducing this legislation today, on World Suicide Prevention Day. The prevalence of mental illness within our criminal justice system and the population of formerly incarcerated individuals is staggering. Opening up job will have a direct impact on the mental health and emotional well-being of these individuals. “The introduction of the Fair Chance Act could not come at a more appropriate time—we are in an unprecedented surge of support for criminal justice reform. In my service as Ranking Member of the Crime Subcommittee, I have been working directly with Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers on legislation to reform all stages of our criminal justice system that we hope to introduce in the coming weeks. The Fair Chance Act of 2015 is one more critical step in this long overdue and urgently needed effort to comprehensively reform our criminal justice system.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees and founder and Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement today announcing that the Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program has awarded $40,000 in scholarships to Texas Southern University to help its’ students diminish the cost of a college education. “The $40,000 scholarship will help students at Texas Southern University pay for their college education. It is vitally important that students are able to afford to continue their education. I am so proud of Texas Southern University and its’ talented students for earning these significant scholarships.” “An educated, open-minded, and worldly group of young people is incredibly important for the success of Houston, America, and our global society. It is imperative that students not end their college experience buried in a mound of debt. That is why I have championed and advocated for programs to help college students pay for their furthering education, as well as drawing attention to scholarships, such as the Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program.” “I congratulate the students of Texas Southern University on being selected to receive these momentous scholarships from the Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a member of the Congressional Wildlife Refuge Caucus and a recent recipient of the Friend of the National Parks Award from the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA), released the following statement today announcing that the Council on Environmental Quality has launched the Every Kid in a Park Pass: “The pass will allow fourth graders nationwide to obtain a pass from www.everykidinapark.gov that will allow them free access to any federally owned and managed lands. I am incredibly excited that fourth graders across the nation will be able to visit our striking and essential national parks, forests, marine sanctuaries, and wildlife refuges for free. ” “It is essential for students to experience our beautiful country and expand their physical and mental horizons. Not only is Every Kid in a Park an opportunity for family fun, it is also an opportunity to spark awareness of the many benefits of our nation’s parks and waters.” “Today over eighty percent of families live in urban areas and lack the ability to explore safely outdoors, I congratulate President Obama’s effort to bring our children back outside. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish our National Park Service a happy early one-hundredth birthday!” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, released the following statement today announcing that the Federal Aviation Administration has awarded a $13.8 million grant to the City of Houston to extend runways at George Bush Intercontinental Airport: “The $13.8 million grant will help reduce delays for our bustling airport. George Bush Intercontinental airport is on the rise and is currently the eleventh busiest airport in the United States. It is vitally important that our airport stays efficient. ” “An active, proficient, and safe George Bush Intercontinental Airport is critical to the economic growth and well-being of Houston, the surrounding metropolitan region, and our global society. That is why I have longed championed and advocated for programs that provide the necessary funding to keep our airports secure, protected, convenient, modern, and the best in the world.” “I congratulate the City of Houston on being selected to receive this significant grant from the Federal Aviation Administration and am proud to have strongly supported the legislation that made this grant possible.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.09.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement in reference to today’s hearing regarding Planned Parenthood: “Planned Parenthood has been a trusted provider of women’s health care for years. A hidden-camera video released a few weeks back purported to show that Planned Parenthood illegally sells tissue from aborted fetuses. It shows nothing of the sort. But it is the latest in a series of unrelenting attacks on Planned Parenthood, which offers health care services to millions of people every year. The politicians howling to defund Planned Parenthood care nothing about the truth here, being perfectly willing to undermine women’s reproductive rights any way they can. “The nine-minute video clip released by the Center for Medical Progress, an outfit apparently created in 2013, invites viewers to ‘Hold Planned Parenthood accountable for their illegal sale of baby parts.’ In it, Planned Parenthood’s senior director of medical services is seen discussing the collection of fetal tissue in a lunch meeting with two people posing as potential tissue buyers. A second video shows another Planned Parenthood staff member discussing fetal tissue. “Planned Parenthood serves 2.7 million women, men, and young people. 1.5 million of those patients received services through Title X — the nation’s family planning program. At least 78 percent of Planned Parenthood’s health care patients live with incomes of 150 percent of the federal poverty level or less (the equivalent of $36,375 a year for a family of four in 2015). At least 60 percent of the patients Planned Parenthood serves each year benefit from public health coverage programs such as the nation’s family planning program and Medicaid. Patients came into Planned Parenthood health centers 4.6 million times for services. 2.2 million, or nearly 52 percent of all patient visits, were with patients enrolled in Medicaid. Planned Parenthood provided 10.6 million services. They provide nearly 400,000 Pap tests, nearly 500,000 breast exams and nearly 4.5 million STI tests and treatments, including HIV tests. “This hearing is being used to attack legal abortion again. Fetal tissue research is a miracle scientific process used to save lives. Planned Parenthood is about women’s health for desperate women in need. They have also helped with fetal research. “Researchers use fetal tissue to study and develop treatments for diseases and conditions like H.I.V., hepatitis, congenital heart defects, retinal degeneration and Parkinson’s. Last year, the National Institutes of Health gave $76 million in grants for fetal tissue research. Planned Parenthood is certainly not the only collector of fetal tissue — clinics associated with universities also supply tissue for research. Again they help but only in a minuscule manner. “Again, this hearing today is just another witch hunt against Planned Parenthood. Anti-abortion groups and members of the Republican Party have long pushed to defund Planned Parenthood, even though no federal money is used to provide abortions, in compliance with the Hyde Amendment. But that has not stopped their efforts to shut down the clinics, which provide services like contraception, cancer screening and other tests. The Center for Medical Progress — which managed to get tax-exempt status in 2013 as a biomedicine charity, according to a report by The Huffington Post — appears to have done little beyond producing the undercover video. The Center for Medical Progress video campaign is a dishonest attempt to make legal, voluntary and potentially lifesaving tissue donations appear nefarious and illegal. Lawmakers responding by promoting their own anti-choice agenda are rewarding deception and putting women’s health and their constitutionally protected rights at risk. “Planned Parenthood health centers in Texas have been critical to the success of the Women’s Health Program. Planned Parenthood is the single largest provider of care within the Women’s Health Program and consistently delivers high-quality care to low-income women. In fact, over 40 percent of women who received services through the Women’s Health Program chose to rely on a Planned Parenthood health center for Women’s Health Program services, which include lifesaving cancer screenings, well-woman exams, contraception, screening for diabetes and high blood pressure, and testing for sexually transmitted infections. “In addition to providing health care services, Planned Parenthood staff also promote Women’s Health Program enrollment by assisting clients with eligibility determination and the enrollment process. By ensuring that eligible women are enrolled in the Women’s Health Program, Planned Parenthood’s nonprofit health centers have helped expand the program’s reach. We must put politics aside and focus on women’s health and the right of women to determine which qualified professionals who provide them care.” ###
08.17.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the passing of Julian Bond: “From his days as the co-founder and communications director of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee in the 1960s to his chairmanship of the NAACP in the 21st century, Julian was a visionary and tireless champion for civil and human rights. Julian was on the forefront of the 1960s civil rights movement and was among activists who demanded equal rights for African-Americans. Julian campaigned for equal rights for minorities beyond the United States. In 1985, police arrested him outside the South African Embassy in Washington, where he was protesting against apartheid. “Julian was also a great legislator. Julian was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives in 1965. In addition to the Georgia House, he served in the state Senate for years. Julian was also an educator. Julian taught at various universities, including Harvard and the University of Pennsylvania and he was also a faculty member in the History Department at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, my Alma Mater, where he taught history of the Civil Rights Movement until 2013. Julian was also the chairman of the NAACP for a decade. “With Julian's passing, the country has lost one of its most passionate voices for the cause of justice for all. He advocated not just for African Americans, but for every group, indeed every person subject to oppression and discrimination, because he recognized the common humanity in us all. “My condolences to his wife Pamela Horowitz and their five children. Not only has the country lost an icon when it comes to a fighter for justice but we have lost a hero and we have lost a great friend. Julian was a genuine human being who cared for all humanity.” ###
08.14.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, today marked the 80th anniversary of the enactment of the Social Security program, landmark legislation signed into law by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt on August 14, 1935. “Creating Social Security was and is one of the proudest achievements of the Democratic Party,” stated Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “Social Security has transformed what it means to grow old in this country.” “For 80 years, Social Security has represented a bedrock promise to the American people: that a lifetime of work will be rewarded with the peace of mind, certainty, and sense of security of a stable retirement,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee added. “As we celebrate Social Security’s 80th birthday, we need to remember the real-life impact that America’s most successful program continues to have on millions of Americans each year.” Social Security has been a stable and secure source of income for millions of seniors and families, many of whom desperately need it, over these last more than seven decades. In the 18th Congressional District of Texas, Social Security is the primary economic lifeline for 90,766 seniors and disabled persons. “Social Security’s economic impact also goes well beyond the seniors and families receiving benefits. It also benefits state economies and local businesses all across the country. Right here in the 18th Congressional District, Social Security recipients inject more than $97 million into the local economy annually; nationwide, this figures is $775 billion,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “When more than 58 million Americans use the purchasing power of those benefits, they are supporting businesses with dollars they would not have without Social Security.” Unfortunately, in recent years, there are Congressional Republicans who continue to promote various plans to privatize or partially privatize Social Security – plans that would rob seniors of the economic security they count on. “Over the last 80 years, Democrats have protected and strengthened Social Security; and now and in the future, Democrats will always act to preserve Social Security and safeguard the rights of our nation’s seniors,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
08.12.2015	Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement regarding International Youth Day: “In 1999, the United Nations General Assembly validated the recommendation made by the World Conference of Ministers Responsible for Youth that August 12th should be declared International Youth Day. Today’s youth have played an integral part in both national and international affairs. Whether it is through journalism, politics, entrepreneurship, or even culture, youth have gone a long way in shaping today’s society for the better. “International Youth Day serves as a reminder to all of us that young people around the globe have the potential to bring about meaningful change and their voices are pivotal when it comes to the decision making process. But on the other hand, it reminds us of the countless number of children who are oppressed within their nations as child soldiers, sex slaves or are forced into marriage without consent. It is through this day that we are made conscious of all the problems young people are facing and helps us go further to empower their potentials. “This year’s theme for International Youth Day is ‘Youth Civic Engagement.’ I strongly hold the belief that the engagement and participation of today’s youth is of paramount importance in order to achieve sustainable human development. Over the past year, young people around the world have voiced their opinions through various media outlets on issues that are close to their hearts. Their involvement in protests such as those in Ferguson, St Louis, Baltimore, and on a global level, in Armenia and England, have shown policy makers that their brilliant minds can have a pertinent influence on regional affairs. “My message to the youth around the world is to get involved. Civic engagement means working hard to make a difference, developing skills, gaining knowledge, and promoting peace. Get involved in political activism, get involved in environmentalism, show your #youthpower and get involved in creating a peaceful community. As legislators, it is our duty to support the efforts of these young people in civic involvement and help them bring positive changes to the world. We need to give them the space and skills they need to realize their potential. “To all the young people in the world, this is your day. Make the best of it, and bring about a change. I wish you all a wonderful International Youth Day.” ###
08.12.2015	August 11, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement today: “Chief Will Johnson of the Arlington, Texas Police Department did the right thing by firing the officer who shot and killed Christian Taylor, 19, on Friday, August 2015. The officer who killed this young man had not even completed field training. To say he exercised poor judgment is an understatement. To most viewers of the video, it appears that Mr. Taylor may have been in need of assistance but did not pose any threat to the officer’s safety warranting the exercise of lethal force. “The rate at which unarmed black men are shot and killed by police officers is beyond alarming. According to the Washington Post, 24 unarmed black men have been shot and killed by police this year alone – that’s one every nine days. The urgent need for police departments to seek accreditation and to receive better training in de-escalation and non-deadly police tactics cannot be understated. Law enforcement agencies should act swiftly and purposefully in transitioning to the role of ‘guardian’ from the current ‘warrior’ mindset. “Real criminal justice reform must include support for police departments to become the best police force they can be. The Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act (H.R. 2875), which I introduced with Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, does just that. This bill establishes guidelines for excellence in law enforcement and serves as a vital roadmap for improving police ethics and training and restoring trust and respect within the community. The Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act requires law enforcement agencies to take a cold, hard look in the mirror and identify flaws, acknowledge weaknesses, and take corrective action. “Reforming our criminal justice system and enhancing police training must also include taking a closer look at mental health and substance abuse needs of those coming into contact with the criminal and juvenile justice system. My Youth Bills (collectively, the RAISE Act-H.R. 3158, Fair Chance for Youth Act-H.R. 3156, and Effective and Human Treatment of Youth Act-H.R. 3155) provide critical intervention at several key points along a young person’s path into and out of the justice system – from the very first interaction with law enforcement to the point at which they reenter the community. These senseless tragedies demand the passing of comprehensive criminal and juvenile justice reform.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
08.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement today applauding Attorney General Loretta Lynch and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan for launching the Second Chance Pell Pilot Program: “I applaud Attorney General Loretta Lynch and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan for coming together and launching this important program to provide Pell Grants to incarcerated students. While most individuals wish to better themselves during their time in prison, opportunities to do so are severely lacking. Approximately 630,000 individuals are expected to be released from federal and state prison each year. It is time we acknowledge better ways to help facilitate their successful transition back into society by reducing and eliminating risk factors that typically lead to individuals returning to crime. “According to the Department of Education, providing higher educational opportunities to incarcerated persons is the single most successful method to reducing levels of incarceration and overall rates of recidivism. Individuals who participated in postsecondary education while in prison are found to be 40-50 percent less likely to recidivate that members of the general prison population – with some studies finding reductions by as much as 60 percent. Those enrolled in college educational programs are also significantly less likely to misbehave or receive infractions while in prison, thus resulting in a safer prison environment. “The Second Chance Pell Pilot program will increase public safety, strengthen communities, and save tax payers money. A study funded by the Department of Justice found that for every one dollar invested in correctional education programs, tax payers save four to five dollars on re-incarceration costs. This pilot program reflects and supports the evidenced-based conclusion that the cost for correctional education programs far outweigh the cost of crime and incarceration. Criminal justice reform is not complete without effective rehabilitative programs such as this critical component and commitment to improving our system of justice and public safety. I encourage all postsecondary institutions to participate in this essential cost-saving and crime preventative program. The deadline to apply is September 30, 2015 for the 2016-2017 academic year.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
07.30.2015	July 29, 2015 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, today introduced H.R. 3290, an Act Awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to President Lyndon Baines Johnson,” and released the following statement: “Today I introduced legislation awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to Lyndon Baines Johnson, the 36th President of the United States whose vision and leadership secured passage of the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965, the Social Security Amendments Act (Medicare) of 1965, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Higher Education Act of 1965, and the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965. “The award of the Congressional Gold Medal is long overdue recognition of the remarkable record of achievement in the field of domestic affairs of the person most responsible for several of the nation’s landmark laws that mark their 50th anniversary this year. “As a Member of Congress from the Tenth Congressional District of Texas, as Majority Leader of the U.S. Senate, Vice-President and President of the United States, Lyndon Baines Johnson’s domestic accomplishments in the fields of civil rights, education, and economic opportunity rank among the greatest achievements of the past half century. “As President, Lyndon Johnson proposed, championed, led to passage, and signed into law on August 6, 1965 the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which swept away barriers impeding millions of Americans from meaningful participation in American political life. “On July 30, 1965, President Johnson signed into law the Social Security Amendments Act of 1965, which we today know as Medicare, which has transformed the delivery of health care in the United States and which, along with Social Security, reduced the rate of poverty among the elderly from 28.5 percent in 1966 to 9.1 percent in 2012. “On July 2, 1964 President Johnson secured passage and signed into law the most sweeping civil rights legislation since Reconstruction, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination in employment, education, and public accommodations based on race, color, religion, or national origin. “On November 8, 1965, President Johnson signed into law the Higher Education Act, which provided need-based financial aid to students in the form of scholarships, work-study grants, and loans, and thus for the first time made higher education more accessible to populations of persons who were previously unable to attend college because of economic circumstances. “On October 3, 1965, President Johnson signed into law the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965, which transformed the nation’s immigration system by abolishing the racially based quota system that had defined American immigration policy for the previous four decades and replaced it with a policy whose central purpose was family reunification, with a preference for immigrants with specific skillsets. “According to Robert A. Caro, the preeminent biographer of Lyndon Baines Johnson, with the single exception of Abraham Lincoln, Lyndon Johnson was the greatest champion of the poor and underprivileged in the history of the Republic and was the President “who wrote mercy and justice into the statute books by which America was governed.” “I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Congressional leadership to move this legislation forward which awards the Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of the extraordinary domestic achievements of President Lyndon Baines Johnson, the 36th President of the United States.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
07.22.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today expressing support, gratitude, and appreciation for all who have worn the uniform in the Armed Services of the United States: “Two of my uncles served in the Armed Forces in World War II and a third help keep the peace during the immediate post-war period. They, like millions of others who have worn the uniform of the Armed Forces of the United States, risked their lives to defend our nation and protect the rights we cherish. As the Scriptures teach, ‘Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.’ John McCain and countless others like him willingly risked their lives to keep their fellow Americans safe. And that is what makes them heroes. Donald Trump is simply wrong. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
07.22.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations released the following statement today calling upon the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate the suspicious death in custody of 28-year old Sandra Bland in Waller, County, Texas: “The facts and circumstances surrounding the death of 28-year old Sandra Bland, is a matter of great concern to me, to her family and loved ones, and to the nation. A young woman who has her whole life ahead of her and is about to begin a new job is found hanging by a plastic bag in jail cell three days after being pulled over for a routine traffic stop is beyond shocking and heartbreaking. “I have called upon the Department of Justice to conduct a full investigation into the pattern and practice of unconstitutional policing in Waller County, Texas. Additionally, this weekend I visited the site of the traffic stop and reviewed the dash cam video documenting the fateful arrest of Ms. Bland. Too many questions remain unanswered which is why I also met with the Texas Department of Public Safety, the Texas State Rangers, District Attorney Elton Mathis, and Waller County Sherriff Royce Glenn Smith. “In a time where the nation is demanding heightened scrutiny of all too frequent deaths that occur while in police custody, it is important that those law enforcement officers who commit abuse their authority or commit criminal acts held accountable. The circumstances known to date surrounding the death in custody of Ms. Bland demands thorough review and investigation. All Americans are entitled to equal justice and have a right to expect that laws will be enforced fairly, impartially, and without regard to race, national origin, religion, gender, or economic status. “This tragedy is another example of why criminal justice reform is so urgently needed, especially legislation that will rebuild trust and maintain respect between law enforcement agencies and the communities they are to protect and serve. This week, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers and I will be unveiling two pieces of legislation that will bring reform to policing policies and practices, and more humane treatment of incarcerated youth. I call upon Speaker Boehner to set criminal justice reform as a legislative priority – the need is great, the time is now.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
07.22.2015	July 16, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement in response to the announcement that Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith, 26, succumbed to wounds suffered during shooting rampage in last week’s shooting rampage in Chattanooga, Tennessee, that claimed the lives of four United States Marines: “My thoughts and prayers go out to the family and loved ones of Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith, and the people of Chattanooga, Tennessee, and persons everywhere shocked and horrified by the senseless attack last Thursday morning. “There is no place in a civilized society for such senseless acts of violence. But there is every reason for us to redoubling our commitment to protect and fortify soft targets and to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security so that it has the resources and personnel to secure the homeland and protect the safety of our people.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
07.22.2015	July 21, 2015 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, today introduced H.R. 3125, the “Accidental Firearms Transfers Reporting Act of 2015,” and released the following statement: “Today I introduced the “Accidental Firearms Transfers Reporting Act of 2015,” which directs the FBI to report to Congress the number of firearm transfers resulting from the failure to complete a background check during an administrative delay. The FBI must further disclose the procedures it has in place and actions taken after discovering a firearm has been transferred to a person who should have been ineligible to receive a firearm. “With this critical data and compliance reporting we can learn more about the senseless loophole that led to Dylan Roof’s tragic possession of the firearm used to murder 9 innocent persons at Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, South Carolina, as well as the numerous other cases where a firearm was handed over to an unintended and potentially dangerous recipient. Requiring the FBI to report on such cases every 6 months, not only ensures their internal oversight but it allows for effective monitoring to expose any other patterns or practices in need of administrative or legislative action. “We cannot afford another accidental transfer of a firearm to an individual who should have been denied access upon a thorough and timely background check. Currently, the FBI is not responsible for reporting how often this happens and what procedures are in place to ensure immediate action should a firearm be accidentally transferred to an ineligible person. H.R. 3125 would protect the community through informed policies that resolve any lack of transparency or potential loopholes.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
07.20.2015	July 16, 2015 HOUSTON– Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today calling upon House Speaker Boehner to bring legislation intended to protect the right to vote of all Americans to the floor for debate and vote in advance of the 50th anniversary of the landmark Voting Rights Act signed by President Lyndon Johnson on August 6, 1965: “I am proud to stand with my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee and leaders of the House Democratic Caucus in calling upon House Speaker Boehner to bring legislation intended to protect the right to vote of all Americans to the floor for debate and vote in advance of the 50th anniversary of the landmark Voting Rights Act signed by President Lyndon Johnson on August 6, 1965. “This action is long overdue. It has been more than two years since the Supreme Court decided Shelby County v. Holder, 570 U.S. 193 (2013), which invalidated Section 4(b) of the Voting Rights Act, and paralyzed the application of the Act’s Section 5 preclearance requirements, which protect minority voting rights where voter discrimination has historically been the worst. “In the 49 years since its passage on this day in 1965, the Voting Rights Act has safeguarded the right of Americans to vote and stood as an obstacle to many of the more egregious attempts by certain states and local jurisdictions to game the system by passing discriminatory changes to their election laws and administrative policies. “In signing the Voting Rights Act on August 6, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson said: ‘The vote is the most powerful instrument ever devised by man for breaking down injustice and destroying the terrible walls which imprison men because they are different from other men.’ “Although much progress has been made there is still much work to be done in order to prevent systemic voter suppression and discrimination within our communities and we must remain ever vigilant and oppose schemes that will abridge or dilute the precious right to vote. Since 1982, Section 5 has stopped more than 1,000 discriminatory voting changes in their tracks, including 107 discriminatory changes in Texas. In the aftermath of the Shelby decision, I was a member of the working group led by Congressman Jim Clyburn of South Carolina that was tasked with sharing ideas, making recommendations, and crafting and drafting the legislation that would repair the damage done to the Voting Rights Act by the Supreme Court decision and capable of winning majorities in the House and Senate and the signature of the President. “That effort resulted in the ‘Voting Rights Amendments Act,’ (H.R. 3899 and H.R. 885) of which I am an original co-sponsor, which repairs the damage done to the Voting Rights Act by the Supreme Court decision and is capable of winning majorities in the House and Senate and the signature of the President. “This legislation replaces the old ‘static’ coverage formula with a new dynamic coverage formula, or ‘rolling trigger,’ which effectively gives the legislation nationwide reach because any state and any jurisdiction in any state potentially is subject to being covered if the requisite number of violations are found to have been committed. “I am also a sponsor of the H.R. 2867, the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015, a bill that restores and advances the Voting Rights Act of 1965 by providing a modern day coverage test that will extend federal oversight to jurisdictions which have a history of voter suppression and protects vulnerable communities from discriminatory voting practices. “I am also a sponsor of H.R. 12, the Voter Empower Act of 2015, which protects voters from suppression, deception and other forms of disenfranchisement by modernizing voter registration, promoting access to voting for individuals with disabilities, and protecting the ability of individuals to exercise the right to vote in elections for federal office. “For millions of Americans, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 is sacred treasure, earned by the sweat and toil and tears and blood of ordinary Americans who showed the world it was possible to accomplish extraordinary things. “The is needed as much today to prevent another epidemic of voting disenfranchisement as Dr. Salk’s vaccine is still needed to prevent another polio epidemic. I again call upon Speaker Boehner to bring H.R. 2867, the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015, and H.R. 12, Voter Empowerment Act of 2015 to the floor for a vote.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigation
07.20.2015	“Washington, DC – Last week, I received the Friend of the National Parks Award from the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). This award recognizes my votes during the 113th Congress which contributed to the protection and enhancement of America’s national parks. “NPCA’s Friend of the National Parks Award was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ votes on significant park issues. This year, NPCA tracked votes for three national park-related votes in the Senate and five in the House of Representatives. To receive the award, senators needed to vote in favor of national parks on at least two scored bills and representatives on at least three scored bills.” “It’s an honor to recognize Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee for supporting our national parks on the floor of the House during the 113th Congress,” said NPCA President and CEO Clark Bunting. “As the 114th Congress works on policies and funding levels impacting our national parks, I look forward to working with the congresswoman to ensure national parks have safe roadways, are well maintained, and have the resources they need to thrive for their upcoming centennial” ### About the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA): Since 1919, the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) has been the leading voice for our national parks. NPCA and its more than one million members and supporters work together to protect and preserve our nation’s natural, historical, and cultural heritage for future generations. For more information, visit www.npca.org. Photographs courtesy of NPCA. Pictured: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee with NPCA President and CEO, Clark Bunting, and Craig Obey, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs of NPCA.
07.15.2015	July 14, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement after President Obama announced that the negotiators of the P5+1 nations have reached a nuclear agreement with Iran: “Although I will be probing this agreement and raising many questions, I believe the president and his diplomatic team have made a major effort towards peace. I will be listening to the administration and pursuing my own research to give this agreement a microscopic review. We should not dismiss this agreement based on our long standing conflict with Iran. Iran should not take the final results of this agreement as any indication that the American people will settle for their shenanigans; their breaking of the agreement and their continued threatening of the region. I want peace. I know America wants peace. I also know the American people deserve safety and security and a Mideast that respects the right for the state of Israel to exist. Further, our other Mideast allies should work with the P5+1 nations to ensure its enforcement and thereby creating security in the region.” ###
07.15.2015	July 13, 2015 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Co-chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Justice Reform Working Group and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Homeland Security, Terrorism, and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the gun purchase of the alleged killer of nine innocent people at the Emanuel AME church: “The alleged killer of so many innocent people at the Emanuel AME church should not have been allowed to purchase the gun he allegedly used that evening. The FBI, through their CJIS Division in West Virginia, administers part of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, or NICS. They perform background checks in response to requests from gun dealers in about 30 states; the remainder of the states do their own. “Under federal law, a Federal Firearms Licensee must submit biographical information about a potential purchaser to NICS, and NICS has three business days to perform a background check and clear or deny the purchase. If the clear or deny decision has not been given in three business days, the FFL has the discretion to proceed with the transaction. Many large retailers exercise their discretion not to proceed until given a clear ‘yes,’ but many other retailers conclude the transaction after the three business days even in the absence of a clear decision, which is what the law allows. The perpetrator should not have been allowed to purchase the handgun. “What we can do is make sure that we learn from it, get better, and work to ensure that we catch everything. I will be introducing legislation that will eliminate the deadline of three days that is given to the NICS to perform a background check. The legislation will end the discretion of the gun shop owner to allow the purchase of a gun when they have not received an official denial or approval from NCIS. It is disastrous that this illegal gun sale resulted in the murderous rampage that killed nine innocent people worshipping at the Mother Emanuel Church. The American people and other victims of gun violence deserve better.” ###
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Chris Smith (R-NJ), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) and Ted Lieu (D-CA), released the following statement regarding the protection of American children during international custody matters: “As Members of Congress we remain committed to protecting the rights of American children. All children deserve to know and be loved by both of their parents, however, we are deeply concerned children are being denied access to their American parent in countries around the world.” All of the above members support the Goldman Act, authored by, Congressman Chris Smith, to help bring American children who were abducted out of the country or unlawfully retained abroad back home and to ensure that American children living abroad have access to their American parent. Mr. Smith is a Senior Member of Congress and Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations. On June 25, 2015, at a briefing convened by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, entitled “American Children & Left-Behind Parents: the Silent Victims of International Parental Child Abduction and Access Cases,” Congressional Members had the opportunity to discuss their commitment to protecting American children. The purpose of the briefing was to illuminate the importance of the enforcement of the Hague Convention and Goldman Act to protect American children and their parents. “As a mother and grandmother, I commend the work of my colleague, Congressman Smith on following up on ensuring the U.S. State Department, through the Goldman Act, enforces the Hague Convention and otherwise works to bring American children home quickly. Every day of separation between a parent and child can take an enormous emotional toll. I stand ready to work with him and all other colleagues committed to protecting American children” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus and Senior Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. During the June 25 briefing, Representatives heard from actress Kelly Rutherford and attorney Sarah Kurtz, two American mothers who told their stories of obstacles and inability to access their children. Parents like Ms. Rutherford and Ms. Kurtz suffer separation and alienation from their children when a U.S. judge permits the children to move abroad with a former spouse, but fails to realize that the former spouse or foreign country may not honor court orders or a contract guaranteeing the left-behind parent’s access to the child. Ms. Rutherford has expressed that “While some American children are being sent to live in countries where they have some protections because they enjoy dual citizenship with those countries, others, like Kelly Rutherford's children, are being forced to live in countries where they have no citizenship whatsoever, and where courts are refusing to enforce American laws and courts orders. The inconsistent enforcement and lack of accountability regarding international laws related to child custody are creating global havoc, and a growing mistrust of the system.” In addition, approximately 1,000 U.S. children are reported to the Department of State each year as victims of international parental child abduction or kidnapping, which occurs when one parent unlawfully moves a child from his or her country of residence, often for the purpose of denying the other parent access to the child. Too many left-behind parents lack meaningful access to their children after an abduction. Some of the issues faced by these parents was also addressed on June 11, 2015, during a hearing convened by Congressman Chris Smith, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations, entitled: “The Goldman Act to Return Abducted American Children: Assessing the Compliance Report and Required Action.” During that hearing, the Subcommittee heard from experts from the State Department, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, and parents of abducted children to India, Tunisia and Japan. The heart wrenching challenges expressed by the mothers and fathers at the briefing and hearing underscore the need for the U.S. Department of State to accurately report to the Congress and family court judges the obstacles facing parents whose children are taken or sent abroad, the need to create bilateral agreements with countries that have not adopted the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, and the requirements of the Goldman Act for the State Department to take action against countries that have failed to implement their duties under the Hague Convention or otherwise cooperate with the U.S. for the return of abducted American children. “Our hearts go out to parents like Kelly, Sarah and many others. We remain committed to ensuring the enforcement of the Goldman Act and drafting legislation that will protect American families.” The House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations will convene a hearing July 16, 2015, to investigate further challenges faced by parents of American children in international custody matters. ###
07.10.2015	“Washington, DC – Today, I released a report showcasing infrastructure needs in Texas and highlighting the need for immediate action with only 22 days left until the Highway Trust Fund expires on July 31st. Republicans need to stop lurching from one manufactured crisis to the next and work with House Democrats to find a long-term solution that will repair America’s deteriorating roads, bridges and transit systems. “Republicans are living in a fantasy land if they do not believe that we need a long-term measure to fix our broken infrastructure. The roads and bridges we commute on, on a daily basis, are crumbling. It is time to invest in American infrastructure and create good paying construction jobs for hardworking Americans in Texas. “In Texas, 38 percent of roads are in mediocre or poor condition, forcing drivers to spend approximately $5.27 billion dollars annually on otherwise unnecessary automotive repairs, creating costs for commuters and businesses moving their goods to market. With 19 percentage of our state’s bridges also being structurally deficient, it is clear that it is well past time for the radical Republican leadership to join House Democrats in their effort to invest in America’s infrastructure. “House Republicans continue to kick the can down the road and recklessly ignore the urgent crisis presented by the expiration of the Highway Trust Fund. Americans deserve a long-term plan that invests in America’s crumbling infrastructure and creates jobs, not special interest giveaways for the ultra-wealthy.” ###
07.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the removal of the Confederate Flag from the Capitol grounds in South Carolina: “The untimely death of Pastor Clementa Pinckney and eight other congregants at the Historic Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, SC on June 17, has awakened the moral conscience of this nation. It has caused us to see where we have been blind. For too long we have ignored the emotions and historic context surrounding this flag. It is an insult and a mockery to those whose ancestors were enslaved, lynched, killed, and disenfranchised. “Yesterday, after an emotional floor debate in the South Carolina House of Representatives, the State House in South Carolina joined the State Senate in an overwhelming vote to remove the Confederate flag from the State Capitol. South Carolina has had a history entrenched in racial conflict. In 1860 they were the first state to leave the union and form a new nation called the Confederate States of America. The flag was raised once again over 50 years ago in act of defiance and resistance to the Civil Rights Movement. “It is a new day for America – a new opportunity for us to improve the crippled race relations in this nation. The nine members of Emanuel AME died as martyrs. Their deaths have brought about an unprecedented change in America with states debating on the place of a hate flag sanctioned by a government institution. “Though the flag has been removed, we have not entered a post racial society – racism and covert discrimination has not ended. President Obama’s eulogy at the funeral of Pastor Pinckney reminded us that we still have work to do to address institutionalized racist practices in this country that have become status quo. “That is why I introduced H. Res. 342, a resolution expressing the Sense of the Congress that the United States can achieve a more perfect union by promoting tolerance and unity by taking actions to ensure that `government speech' does not foster division, disharmony, intolerance through government-issued or sponsored flags, signs, images, or other symbols whether displayed in public or private. “I applaud the 94 Members of the South Carolina House and the 36 Senators who exemplified extraordinary leadership in voting to progress our country toward a more perfect union. “Let us continue to stand with the victims and families of Charleston, and against the public display of this symbol of hate in any state.” ###
07.06.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee and the House Judiciary Committee Founder and Co-Chair of the House Congressional Nigerian Caucus, Co-Chair of the House Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement regarding the recent bombings by Boko Haram this past weekend in Nigeria: “During this holy month of Ramadan, I am in support of the Nigerian people’s security and their right to freedom of worship. This past weekend, two bombs allegedly planted and detonated by the extremist group Boko Haram exploded at a crowded mosque and restaurant as people said their evening prayers and were breaking their fast for the day in Nigeria's central city of Jos, killing 44 people. Sixty-seven other people were wounded in the attacks Sunday night and are being treated at hospitals in the area. Last year I led a Congressional Delegation to Nigeria where we were briefed on the horrific atrocities Boko Haram is inflicting on residents of Nigeria and I received an update on the whereabouts of the kidnapped girls from the Government Secondary School. A few months back I was pleased to hear of the rescue from Boko Haram terror camp in the Sambisa Forest of some girls. Over a year later I remain extremely concerned about the abduction of some 200 girls. I am encouraged by President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to ensuring the security of the Nigerian people. I and my colleagues stand ready to work with the Nigerian government and people to maintain peace and security in Nigeria. My heart goes out to their families, and I am praying that they will soon be united with their children. During my visit to Nigeria we met with government officials and others to discuss what is currently being done to bring these girls back to their families immediately. "As a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee I know that children's rights are human rights, and these types of attacks, specifically targeting of schools, are strictly prohibited under international law and cannot be justified under any circumstances. Schools are places of refuge and safety, where children should be allowed to learn and grow without fearing harm coming to them. Girls and young women around the world absolutely must be allowed to go to school peacefully and free from intimidation, persecution and all other forms of discrimination. “It has been over a year since Boko Haram extremists kidnapped more than 200 Nigerian schoolgirls, some of their parents have died. We must Bring Back Our Girls Now!!!!!!! To put an end to this senseless violence I proposed that a victims fund be created immediately for these girls and their families, and this is why I wrote a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch to set up a victim support fund for Nigerians who have been victims of Boko Haram’s scourge. Nigeria must also collaborate with the African Union and U.N. Peace Keepers to locate these missing girls and start providing armed protection for all schools in Nigeria where their youth go to learn. “The members of Boko Haram are thugs and must be brought to justice. This outrageous conduct cannot be tolerated or overlooked. Not only is it a violation of the girls’ human rights -- it is also contrary to United States policy supporting and promoting equal access to education and economic opportunity for women and girls.” # # # Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
06.30.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the US Supreme Court landmark decision supporting marriage equality: “This historic decision affirms all American families equal rights under the law. I applaud the Supreme Court for acting to recognize an individual’s right to enjoy the same federal benefits regardless of the sexual orientation of their marriage. I am proud to defend the civil rights of all American’s including the LGBT community. “With today’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, the Supreme Court struck down state bans on the right to choose their partner and requires states to recognize marriages performed in other states in accordance with the Fourteenth Amendment. I have been a longtime advocate for marriage equality and equal rights for all Americans. This is a great day for America and to reaffirm that our Constitution is a living document.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its decision in King v. Burwell: “Today, for the second time, the Supreme Court has upheld the Affordable Care Act. This is a victory for common sense and for all American families. It is long past time for Republicans to abandon their assault on the newfound health security that the Affordable Care Act is providing millions and millions of Americans across the country. “At the end of Open Enrollment on February 15, 1,189,316 Texas consumers had selected a plan or were automatically re-enrolled in Marketplace coverage. 86 percent of Texas consumers who were signed up as of January 30 qualify for an average tax credit of $242 per month through the Marketplace. As of January 30, in the 37 States using the HealthCare.gov platform, the average advance premium tax credit covers about 72 percent (or $268) of the gross premium, and tax credits will reduce premium costs across the 37 States by over $1 billion a month. “Over the months the consumers in Texas sent a clear message: The Affordable Care Act is working, and the quality health coverage offered through the Health Insurance Marketplace is an affordable product that consumers want. In the final day of Open Enrollment, more new consumers signed up for health coverage than any other day this open enrollment or last. “It is easy to understand why consumers were enthusiastic: 80 percent of Texas Marketplace enrollees as of December 2014 could have obtained coverage for $100 or less after any applicable tax credits in 2015. Health insurers sent a message as well. They competed for consumers’ business. In Texas, consumers could choose from 15 issuers in the Marketplace in 2015 – up from 12 in 2014. Texas consumers could choose from an average of 31 health plans in their county for 2015 coverage – up from 25 in 2014. “We have achieved an historic reduction in the uninsured – the largest over any period since the early 1970s. Furthermore, in 2014, hospitals saved an estimated $5.7 billion in uncompensated care costs because of the Affordable Care Act, with states that have expanded Medicaid seeing about 74 percent of the total savings nationally, compared to states that have not expanded Medicaid. “The Court’s decision ensures that all eligible Americans, regardless of their home states, have the access to premium tax credits to afford life-saving health care. American workers and middle-class families will continue to enjoy the benefits of quality, accessible health care and dependable, affordable health coverage.” ###
06.25.2015	June 23, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and former Chairwoman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Vice Admiral Peter V. Neffenger to be Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration: “I congratulate Vice Admiral Neffenger on becoming the sixth Senate-confirmed Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration. I am hopeful that he will bring the depth of experience and leadership that TSA desperately needs and I look forward to discussing his vision and priorities for the agency. I trust that as Administrator, Admiral Neffenger will work with us to address the evolving threat to our transportation security system and other challenges TSA currently faces.” ###
06.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee issued this statement today in recognition of the 150th Celebration of Juneteenth, which marks June 19, 1865 when federal officials arrived in Galveston, Texas to enforce the Emancipation Proclamation: “Today, we celebrate the historic turning point in our nation’s history, when all African Americans born into slavery breathed free. “Juneteenth reminds us of the power we have to meet the challenges that communities of color and so many others continue to face in the pursuit of justice and equality. As we celebrate the jubilee, let us resolve to end the indignity and violence of bigotry, discrimination, and hatred in all its forms. “Out of the bleakness of slavery, African Americans have made invaluable contributions to our great democracy, shaping this nation’s cultural, scientific and economic prosperity for generations. On this historic anniversary, let us remember that in our beloved country, the beauty is in the mix – and that we must continue to work together to honor that truth.” # # #
06.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the Hate Crime shooting in Charleston, South Carolina at Emanuel AME Church: “Yesterday, nine people were shot and killed in Charleston, South Carolina when a deranged young male entered a church gathering at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Pastor Clementa Pinckney was among those who were killed. This church and the families involved are living their worst nightmare. My thoughts go out to the family and friends of all of those affected be this senseless killing. “Emanuel AME church is a historic pillar in the community of Charleston. It is the oldest church in the southern region of the United States. It is nearly as old as the country itself, dating back to the late 1700s. It has many ties to slavery and the civil rights movement. The church hosted Dr. Martin King Jr. when he visited the state in the 60’s. “Charleston’s Police Chief, Greg Mullen has said that this incident is being investigated and treated by the FBI and local law enforcement as a Hate Crime. There is no other explanation for someone to walk into a place of worship and commit murder. However, though this senseless act was committed in a sanctuary for prayer let us never neglect our responsibility to pray for the families and for one another. “We pause all across the country to remember the members and Pastor Clementa Pinckney who served as a state senator in the southern region of South Carolina, and community activist. Pastor Pinckney died serving the people. There is no better way to live and no better way to leave. “The community has many questions, questions that I share. The untimely death of 9 congregants of the Emanuel AME has caused a variety of emotions including outrage, fear and sadness. We must do what we can to apprehend the killer and support the families involved in this tragedy. Let us be sure to direct our anger, emotions and desire for justice, towards the apprehension of the perpetrator and the healing from this horrid hatred for the nation.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding her vote today on the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program: “I joined my colleagues today who really wanted to see a trade bill that reaches into the neighborhoods of America. I look forward to working with the President to get Trade Adjustment Assistance legislation and trade authority that clearly invest in the American people, keeps our manufactures working and promotes the income of working American’s; and also lifts the quality of life of the most vulnerable in those new trade markets that we desire to be a part of. I applaud the President for his commitment for helping poor and working people and I look forward to working with him to get the results we both desire. “There are also, however, serious national issues to be addressed. We must start that now – rebuilding Americas infrastructure, expanding educational opportunities and raising wages to close the gap of income inequality. Finally, my legislative agenda has always been to support our small business and they too must be empowered by any trade agreement.” ###
06.11.2015	June 10, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee and Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Homeland Security, Terrorism, and Investigations, released the following statement in support of the Youth Justice Act of 2015: “I look forward to working on legislation to strengthen accountability in juvenile justice programs while also ensuring that we are helping kids get back on the right track. What we really need to do is put a real dent in the school-to-prison-pipeline and send an important message to kids, particularly those in poor or minority communities disproportionately affected by the system, that we care about them and want them to succeed. “I have been working on criminal justice and women’s and children’s issues throughout my tenure in the Congress and am proud to say that I have introduced legislation aimed at addressing the safety of our communities and the protection of our young people. “I believe in comprehensive reform to address all aspects of the criminal and juvenile justice system. This is why I am also working to create effective laws that stop the over-criminalization of our young people. Today, we know that more and more young children are being arrested, incarcerated, and detained in lengthy out-of-home placements. In some states, such as Maryland, a child as young as 7 years old is subject to being charged and prosecuted by the Juvenile Court System. The excessive and traumatic removal of children from their schools and the community is unacceptable and causing irreparable damage to young people. “Because all lives matter in our great nation, it is imperative that we in Congress act swiftly and decisively to focus much needed attention and resources on legislative proposals intended to address the problem of misuse of lethal force by law enforcement and to rebuild the public trust and confidence needed to ensure that law enforcement receive and maintain the support of the communities they serve and protect. “Juvenile justice intervention programs are important tools to help local communities serve and protect at-risk youth who come into contact with the criminal justice system. I wholeheartedly support working towards comprehensive reform that will allow for appropriate and strategic re-authorization of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act. I look forward to working with Congressman Scott on this initiative and I welcome this continued dialogue and joint effort to accomplish these ends.” ###
06.09.2015	June 6, 2015 Washington, DC: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and former Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security will host Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson at today’s Roundtable Discussion on Youth Engagement on Countering Violent Extremism. Today’s Roundtable will be a rare opportunity to engage in an open dialogue with our Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson about important issues affecting our community, including immigration, civil rights and civil liberties and violent radicalism. The Congresswoman will also be hosting Secretary Johnson at Jack Yates High School Maritime Academy to discuss important maritime issues. As a former ranking member of the House Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, she believes that it is imperative for the young people in our nation to understand the value of the Coast Guard and Maritime Border Control. Maritime borders are pivotal to our national security. Later in the day the Congresswoman will join Secretary Johnson at Rice University for his speech on immigration reform. Who: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and Youth from Houston, Texas. When: June 8, 2015 Time: 1:15pm Press Conference Where: Syrian American Club Inc. 5729 Winsome Ln Houston, TX 77057 ###
06.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the endorsement of her Build TRUST Act by Blacks in Government (BIG) at their 2015 National Delegates Assembly in Orlando, Florida: “I am pleased to receive the support of Blacks in Government for my ‘Build TRUST Act.’ I was pleased to learn that BIG will be writing the President of the United States, the Speaker of the House and the Majority Leader of the U.S. Senate within 30 days expressing their support for this legislation. The growing trend of local units of government using traffic fines and traffic court fees and costs as revenue generators has the potential to breed public cynicism and distrust of local law enforcement agencies, and to lessen public confidence that the laws are being enforced impartially and the criminal justice system is administered equally. “This lack of public confidence in the system, particularly by residents of minority communities, has the potential for exacerbating already tense relations between law enforcement and community residents and could result in public confrontations like those occurring recently in Ferguson, Missouri. “In recent weeks, the New York Times and Washington Post have published exposes documenting that there are many municipalities that rely upon traffic fines and associated courts to fund at least one-third of their operating budgets, and in several instances the percentage exceeded 50 percent. And it was discovered that one community in Missouri derived 86% of its revenues from traffic fines. The ‘Build TRUST Act,’ which addresses this problem by providing for a 75% reduction in the amount of DOJ grant funding that may be awarded to a unit of local government that funds an amount that is greater than 18 percent of its operating budget using revenue generated from collecting fines and other fees related to violations of traffic laws. “Additionally, the reduction would increase to 95 percent if, for the political subdivision involved, the variance in the racial composition of the local law enforcement agency and residents of the political subdivision exceeds 30% for any racial group. The legislation exempts any unit of local government serving a population of less than 15,000 persons. In addition, the legislation authorizes the Attorney General to grant requests for waivers to individual units of local government upon a showing of good cause. “I look forward to working with BIG and other organizations to make sure this legislation becomes law.” ###
05.20.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee issued the following statement after the death of Officer Richard Martin of the Houston Police Department who was killed in the line of duty: “I am deeply saddened by the death of another Houston Police officer in the line of duty. Our men and woman in blue leave their homes every day not knowing if they will return at the end of their shifts. They willingly place their lives on the line to protect the rest of us. “Just last week, communities across the United States will came together during National Police Week to honor and remember those law enforcement officers who made the ultimate sacrifice, as well as the family members, friends and fellow officers they left behind. Next year we will add the name of Richard Martin to the list of police officers who gave their lives for their community. I am praying for Officer Martin's family and HPD as they mourn this loss. All of Houston mourns with them.” ###
05.13.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement in response to the murder of Hattiesburg Police Officers Benjamin Deen and Liquori Tate: “The killing of police officers should not and will not be tolerated in America. My thoughts and prayers are with families of Hattiesburg Police Officers Benjamin Deen and Liquori Tate and the members of the Hattiesburg Mississippi Police Department. The senseless killing of two of Hattiesburg, Mississippi’s finest is a tragedy and another reminder of the dangers faced by law enforcement officers who risk their lives to keep their communities safe. “Thanks to the swift and professional police work of the Hattiesburg Police Department and the Mississippi Bureau of Investigations, the persons alleged to have perpetrated this heinous crime have been apprehended and will be held to answer before the bar of justice. “Officers Deen and Tate served the citizens of Hattiesburg and Mississippi honorably during their brilliant careers, which have been tragically cut short. I join the people of Mississippi and Hattiesburg in mourning their loss and in cherishing their memory.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
05.11.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement in response to the murder of NYPD Officer Brian Moore: “My thoughts and prayers are with Officer Brian Moore’s family and the members of the New York Police Department on this terrible day. The senseless shooting of one of New York City’s finest bravest last Saturday is a tragedy and another reminder of the dangers faced by law enforcement officers who risk their lives to keep their communities safe. “Thanks to the swift and professional police work of the NYPD, the person alleged to have perpetrated this heinous crime has been apprehended and will be held to answer before the bar of justice. “Officer Moore served the citizens of New York City honorably during a brilliant five year career, which was tragically cut short. I join the people of New York City in mourning his loss and in cherishing his memory.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
05.11.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement regarding the events in Garland, Texas: “Freedom of expression requires the toleration of views that may be offensive. In a democratic society, freedom of speech and expression is the surest guarantor of liberty and governmental accountability. The United States will not allow terrorists to threaten this fundamental component of democracy. “The attempted attack in Garland, Texas by persons suspected of holding views sympathetic to ISIS sympathizers will not intimidate Americans or lessen this nation’s devotion to its cherished principles, including the constitutionally protected freedom of speech. “I commend the security officers whose courage and quick thinking saved hundreds of lives and prevented what could have been a horrible tragedy.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
05.11.2015	May 1, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, released the following statement today in response to the announcement by the State’s Attorney for Baltimore City, that homicide charges have been filed against the six officers responsible for the death of Freddie Gray: “I am encouraged by the decisive action taken today by Marilyn Mosby, State’s Attorney for Baltimore City, in bringing charges against the police officers responsible for the death of Freddie Gray. The action by the State’s Attorney sends a hopeful signal that all lives matter and that no one is above the law’s reach or beyond the law’s protection. “That is a message that needs to be sent and felt across the nation. And that is why it is urgent that Congress act this year to enact needed reforms to the nation’s criminal justice system that will increase public confidence and build trust and mutual respect between police departments and the communities they protect and serve. I have introduced legislation, including H.R. 59, the Building Bridges and Transforming Resentment and Unfairness to Support and Trust for Municipal Law Enforcement (“Build TRUST Act”), and H.R. 1810, the Collection and Analysis of Data to Educate and Train Law Enforcement Officers (“CADET Act”), that will promote best practices that will build trust, engender respect, and ensure there is accountability for one’s actions. “I commend all those who protested peacefully in the pursuit of justice for Freddie Gray. They acted in the spirit of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who said ‘change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability, but comes through continuous struggle’ for truth and justice.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
04.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees and the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, released the following statement on the confirmation of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch to become the next United States Attorney General: “U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch is an accomplished and committed public servant who has proven that she can withstand various challenges in the pursuit of justice. As a federal prosecutor from the Eastern District of New York, Loretta Lynch has worked hard to crack down on political corruption and terrorism. As America continues its struggles to protect and expand civil rights for all, I am confident Ms. Lynch will bring a fresh perspective in securing voting rights, addressing over-criminalization and improving the criminal justice system as a whole. “President Obama’s nomination of Ms. Lynch to be our 83rd Attorney General makes her a dynamic addition to his diverse and distinguished cabinet. Now that she is confirmed Ms. Lynch will continue the legacy left behind by our current Attorney General Holder, as the first African-American woman to hold the position. It was unfortunate that we did not have a speedy Senate confirmation of this daughter of the South and of a North Carolina preacher. I look forward to working with her on important matters coming before both the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees in the coming months. “I want to thank Attorney General Eric Holder for his service to this country. There are few more important jobs in our nation's government than that of Attorney General. The Attorney General serves as ‘the guardian of that revered document’ that is the basis of our laws and the driving force of our democracy. To this date, Attorney General Holder has done that with the utmost diligence and respect.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
04.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today in response to the announcement that the P5+1 negotiators have agreed to extend the Iran nuclear negotiations in Lausanne, Switzerland: “I am encouraged that the P5+1 negotiators appear to making significant progress and have agreed to continue negotiations. I applaud the negotiators for not imposing an arbitrary deadline on their talks. Adhering to a self-imposed deadline is less important than reaching an agreement that ensures peace and a non-nuclear Iran.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
03.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of Congress, issued a statement on the Louisiana Army National Guard helicopter crash during a night training exercise at Eglin Air Force Base in the Florida Panhandle. As of Wednesday morning, seven US Marines and four Louisiana Army National Guard soldiers are still missing. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “I am saddened to learn that a Louisiana Army National Guard helicopter carrying seven marines and four soldiers crashed during a training exercise near Eglin Air Force Base. Every day, members of our armed forces put their lives on the line to protect our nation and we cannot thank them enough for their service. I join with all Americans in sending my thoughts and condolences to those involved in the crash and their families. The minute one puts on a uniform we owe them a debt of gratitude and when they lose their life we owe them honor.” ###
03.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent shooting of two Ferguson, Missouri area police officers: “This assault on two law enforcement officers in Ferguson, Missouri was inexcusable and cowardly. Violence against any public safety official should be condemned period. Such senseless acts of violence threaten the very reforms that law abiding protesters in Ferguson and around the country have been working towards for the past several months. “I have been to Ferguson, Missouri and visited with both the protesters and community leaders. I have worshiped with Ferguson residents and I have visited the memorial on the very street where Michael Brown was shot. The Ferguson community is a peaceful community that mourns the loss of Michael Brown and they want their children to be raised in a peaceful community. “The community must remain calm. There was no reason for these senseless shootings to occur other than thuggish criminal behavior. The shooters must be brought in as quickly as possible and expeditiously put through the justice system. I pray for the family of these officers and for their speedy recovery. I also mourn the loss of the Philadelphia police officer from last week and our US Marshal Josie Wells in Louisiana.” ###
03.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent Secret Service security breaches at the White House: “Recently, two senior Secret Service agents, including a top member of the President’s protective detail, drove a government car into White House security barricades after drinking at a late-night party. If these facts prove to be true these individuals should be terminated. The facts should be known and the Secret Service officers involved must be fired. There needs to be a top to bottom retraining of the Secret Service Agency officers so that the good officers and their work can be protected. I believe we must not only reestablish an improved mission of the Secret Service but also work to restore the integrity that the agency must maintain. “A Washington Post article recently referred to a shooting at the White House back in 2011 that was not discovered until 4 days later. A few months ago the First Family had just departed the White House when an intruder scaled the north fence, darted across the lawn and into the White House, where Secret Service agents nabbed him. A few weeks earlier the Secret Service apprehended a man who jumped over the same stretch of fence on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, prompting officers to draw their firearms and deploy service dogs as they took the man into custody. Let us not forget the incident abroad in Columbia a few years back. “It is time for a new approach when it comes to the security of the White House and the safety of the First family. The time is now to prevent a tragic incident at the White House. I am calling for additional Congressional hearings and a revised security protocol for all Agents involved in securing the safety of the First Family and the White House grounds. “Let me be clear – these incidents are totally unacceptable and these incidents are just one of a string of security failings on the Secret Service’s watch. I want to commend Director Joseph P. Clancy for his swift and decisive action by the office of the Inspector General. If the facts are true a complete and thorough investigation should take place and the proper steps must take place to ensure that the similar lapses in judgment will never again jeopardize the important work of the Secret Service. “Finally, I want to be fair in this manner. We must get the facts quickly. If the facts are as reported then there should be zero tolerance on their continuing with the Secret Service. If the allegations are plainly not true and the incident did not occur, then the Agents should be publicly vindicated.” ###
03.12.2015	March 10, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member and the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement decrying the chemical leak from a tanker blocking the busy Houston Ship Channel and calls for a full investigation of the tanker: “I call upon the US Coast Guard, the Houston Ship Channel, the Texas Channel and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway to determine the resources being utilized by owners of oil tankers and barges to assist the U.S. Coast Guard in the recovery of the spilled oil. There must be full compensation for all workers and government entities impacted. This chemical leak demonstrates the urgent necessity of fully funding the U.S. Coast Guard so it has the resources needed to respond to disasters such as this. “The Port of Houston and the Houston Ship Channel are vital parts of our local economy. Over 650,000 jobs generated at its terminals. They are responsible for more than $200 million annual operating revenues and approximately $200 million in capital improvement programs. They are responsible for nearly 70% of the container cargo in the U.S. Gulf and 42 million tons of cargo is handled annually. Finally, nearly $350 million awarded to Port Authority is registered to small businesses in the Houston area.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
03.12.2015	March 10, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee following statement regarding the officer involved shooting of Anthony Robinson, an unarmed African American male, in Madison, Wisconsin: “A few days ago Anthony Johnson was shot five times by a police officer in Madison, Wisconsin. His mother and father, siblings, relatives and friends lost a loved one. His parents are living their worst nightmare. My thoughts go out to the family and friends who are grieving. “The community has many questions, questions that I share. There must be answers to these questions. There is a new State law that mandates an independent investigation into officer involved shootings. However if there is no competent results from that state investigation I am calling for an independent investigation by the US Department of Justice to determine whether Mr. Robinsons civil rights have been violated. “The family and the community all deserve to know the facts in this case. Tony Robinson’s family deserves that, the community deserves that, and the Madison Police deserve that. When the answers come, everyone must be open and transparent in communicating them. Also let it be very clear that Mr. Robinson’s temporary brush with the law is no excuse to malign his character and to suggest that he was sufficiently threatening and warranted five deadly shots that ended his life. “Our police officers serve us with respect, valor, and dignity. On this, a few days removed from the anniversary of the first March on Selma, let us remember the words of Dr. King 50 years ago: ‘The road ahead is not altogether a smooth one. There are no broad highways that lead us easily and inevitably to quick solutions. But we must keep going.’ “This country, the city of Madison, our police officers and our communities must keep moving forward with compassion, with understanding and with a commitment to facing the facts, finding the truth, and making necessary changes to ensure this country is always equitable and just.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
03.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the video showing members of Oklahoma University's Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity chanting racial slurs: “I am pleased with President Boren's swift action to call for a complete investigation in response to this incident. His immediate decision to order all members to vacate the fraternity house and call for OU to cut all ties from the national SAE organization is to be commended and sends a strong message that such disgraceful behavior will not be tolerated. I am disheartened at the obvious lack of tolerance for diversity within these student fraternities. This is a prime example of how one incident can quickly become systemic and unravel years of hard work by many minorities working with whites to foster diversity and tolerance. “We do not need to be talking about intolerance and racism in 2015. We should be long past incidents like this hurtful video made by these young men of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. It is sad that this video comes on the heels of the 50th anniversary of ‘Bloody Sunday' in Selma, Alabama. “It is my hope this will spark real and meaningful change in America. There are numerous groups on the OU campus that are constantly working to diversify faculty and staff, and when we do not have an environment that embraces diversity, that effort can easily be overlooked. I commend President Boren for his swift actions, but simply closing the SAE house and expelling the offenders does not address the root of the problem. Ensuring tolerance and diversity throughout the campus requires cooperation and commitment from all members of the university community. Finally, our nation continues to misunderstand the sensitivities of race and the impact that racial name calling generates. It is appropriate again to call for a national discussion on race. In addition, I call for the passage of my legislation HR. 68 the Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Reauthorization and the Bullying Prevention and Intervention Act of 2015.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
03.12.2015	March 10, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member and the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement decrying the chemical leak from a tanker blocking the busy Houston Ship Channel and calls for a full investigation of the tanker: “I call upon the US Coast Guard, the Houston Ship Channel, the Texas Channel and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway to determine the resources being utilized by owners of oil tankers and barges to assist the U.S. Coast Guard in the recovery of the spilled oil. There must be full compensation for all workers and government entities impacted. This chemical leak demonstrates the urgent necessity of fully funding the U.S. Coast Guard so it has the resources needed to respond to disasters such as this. “The Port of Houston and the Houston Ship Channel are vital parts of our local economy. Over 650,000 jobs generated at its terminals. They are responsible for more than $200 million annual operating revenues and approximately $200 million in capital improvement programs. They are responsible for nearly 70% of the container cargo in the U.S. Gulf and 42 million tons of cargo is handled annually. Finally, nearly $350 million awarded to Port Authority is registered to small businesses in the Houston area.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
03.11.2015	Houston, Texas – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member and the former Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement decrying the chemical leak from a tanker blocking the busy Houston Ship Channel and calls for a full investigation. The Congresswoman will tour the Port of Houston chemical leak and hold a press conference TODAY Wednesday, March 11, 2015 with the United States Coast Guard. WHO: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee and the United States Coast Guard WHAT: IMPORTANT Press Conference on Port of Houston Chemical Leak and the latest update for Residents of the affected area WHEN: Wednesday, March 11, 2015 TIME: 12:15 PM WHERE: La Porte Municipal Airport 10615 Spencer Hwy La Porte, TX 77571 ###
03.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee joined with people across the country to mark the 50th anniversary of “Bloody Sunday.” On March 7, 1965, a group of brave civil rights marchers marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, on their way to Montgomery to demand that African American citizens be finally given their constitutional right to vote. At the bridge, the marchers were attacked by Alabama State troopers, with billy clubs, cattle prods, and tear gas. Many of the marchers were injured, some of them severely. “I salute the extraordinary courage and commitment of those civil rights marchers, who on March 7, 1965, marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge, simply demanding their right to vote,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee stated. “All Americans owe the courageous marchers of ‘Bloody Sunday’ a debt of gratitude.” “Bloody Sunday” was a defining moment in American history because it crystallized for the nation the necessity of enacting a strong and effective federal law to protect the right to vote of every American. The example set by the foot soldiers of Selma showed everyone, here in America and around the world, that there is no force on earth as powerful as an idea whose time has come. The images of “Bloody Sunday” galvanized the nation. On March 15, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson addressed a Joint Session of Congress, urging Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act. On March 21, there was another march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge, this time led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. – joined by 30,000 people from across the country, including national civil rights leaders and Hollywood and other celebrities, and protected by federal troops. On March 25, the marchers reached the steps of the Alabama State Capitol in Montgomery, where Dr. King and the other marchers called for voting rights legislation. “On August 6, 1965, five short months after ‘Bloody Sunday,’ the landmark Voting Rights Act was signed into law,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee pointed out. “The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was a landmark law, which has been responsible for most of the progress that has been made to outlaw discriminatory voting practices across America over the last 50 years.” “What was and is so moving, heroic, and awe-inspiring is that the foot soldiers of Selma faced their heavily armed adversaries fortified only by their love for their country and for each other and their audacious faith in a righteous cause,” . The cause endures because unfortunately, in June 2013, in a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court issued a ruling that significantly weakened the Voting Rights Act by invalidating a key section. “Before the end of this year, this Congress must act to enact H.R. 885, a revised, renewed and strengthened Voting Rights Act. The need for action is critical because the full and free exercise of one’s voting rights is essential to who we are as Americans and to the strength of our democracy,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing Houston in the U.S. House of Representatives, is a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary. She is the ranking Democratic member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
03.02.2015	February 27, 2015 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today in response to the passage by the House of Representatives to extend funding of the Department of Homeland Security for 7-days until Congress returns next week to pass a clean bill fully funding the Department through the remainder of the fiscal year: “For the past several weeks House Republicans persisted in playing political games and obstructing efforts to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of the fiscal year. Because House Democrats stood united in support of the bipartisan legislation passed by the Senate and supported by the Administration, a shutdown was averted and a commitment extracted to vote next week on a clean bill that fully funds the Department and ensures it has the resources needed to secure the homeland and keep our people safe. “The fight was worth it because by standing in united opposition to the political games played by House Republicans, Democrats prevented a diminution of DHS’s capacity to secure our borders, ports, transportation systems, cybernetworks, and critical infrastructure at a time when the nation and civilized world must confront and defeat the threats posed by ISIS and other extremist groups and organizations seeking to harm our nation and its people. “The threat posed by ISIS, for example, is real and it is serious. According to FBI Director James Comey, there are open cases looking into individuals who may be related to ISIS/ISIL in every state in the nation. “It is my hope and expectation that the vote tonight by the House will put an end to any future efforts by House Republicans to place their political interest in appeasing their Tea Party faction ahead of the national interest in securing the homeland.” ### Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat representing Houston in the U.S. House of Representatives, is a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary. She is the ranking Democratic member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
02.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, release the following statement regarding the recent comments of former Mayor Rudy Giuliani: “Recently former Mayor of NY Rudy Giuliani made the following remarks about President Barack Obama: ‘I do not believe, and I know this is a horrible thing to say, but I do not believe that the President loves America -- He doesn't love you. And he doesn't love me. He wasn't brought up the way you were brought up and I was brought up through love of this country.’ “For the record, the President has done many things while in office to let the nation know that he loves America. For instance, does this sound like a President who does not love America?: ‘America has never been defined by fear. We are defined by courage and passion and hope and selflessness and sacrifice and a willingness to take on challenges when others can’t and others will not, and ordinary Americans who risk their own safety to help those in need, and who inspire, thereby, the example of others -- all in the constant pursuit of building a better world not just for ourselves but for people in every corner of the Earth.’ “Over the time that I have served in Congress I have seen President Obama’s love for America through his comforting of the troops and supporting our Veterans. This President has shown his love for America by his frequent visits to the troops in Afghanistan and Iraq thanking them for their service. The immediate concern he showed for the parents in Newtown, Connecticut. His resolve after the shooting of a Member of Congress and her staff and others in Arizona. The immediate concern for the residents of the city of Waco, Texas during the horrible explosion they experienced; and the many floods and hurricanes in which he visited states and cities that had suffered. And in particular his collaboration with the Governors of New Jersey and New York when they experienced the impact of the historic Hurricane Sandy on the east coast. Finally, even as a former United States Senator, President Obama was quick to visit and comfort the victims of Hurricane Katrina. “This certainly is a man through his service as the President of United States and personally as an American that has shown that he loves both his family and our nation without a doubt, states Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.” ###
02.13.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that she has been selected to be a member of the CBCF Board of Directors: “I am pleased to announce that I will be serving on the Board of Directors for the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. The CBCF is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization specifically positioned to carry out the mission of developing leaders, informing policy and educating the public to advance the black community. “I am delighted that several of these programs consistently touch lives in extraordinary ways such as their Internship and Fellowship program that prepares college students and young professionals to become principled leaders, skilled policy analysts, and informed advocates by exposing them to the processes by which national policies are developed and implemented on Capitol Hill and in the federal government. I look forward to working closely with the community of Houston and the CBCF on various projects in the future. “I am proud to be a part of a 40 year legacy of stakeholders committed to making a difference in the lives of the global black community. “I would like to thank my Classmate and the Chair, Rep Chaka Fattah, President and CEO, Shuanise Washington and the CBCF Board of Directors for appointing me to this important position.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the University of Houston has been awarded a research grant in the amount of $329,581 from the National Cancer Institute to support the University’s outstanding Prostate Cancer research program: “I am pleased to announce that the National Cancer Institute has selected the University of Houston to receive this prominent and generous grant. According to the American Cancer Society, about 27,540 Americans die each year from prostate cancer. Prostate Cancer is one of the most common forms of cancer, affecting about 15% of men throughout their lifetimes but disproportionately affecting African American men, who are more than twice as likely to die from the disease. The funding provided by this grant will enable the University of Houston to expand its prostate cancer research programs, help attract new students to the field, enhance the learning experience for current students and most importantly, help to end this horrible disease. “As a strong supporter of the National Cancer Institute and several of their programs, I am proud to have advocated for the legislation that authorized the funding that made this grant possible. “I thank the National Cancer Institute for recognizing the contribution to public health of the University’s prostate cancer research, Daniel Edward Frigo, the principal investigator of the project, and his talented team of researchers.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations
01.15.2015	CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE APPLAUDS PLANS TO STRENGTHEN AMERICA’S MIDDLE CLASS BY ENSURING PAID SICK LEAVE AND EXPANDING ACCESS TO PAID FAMILY LEAVE Currently, In Our State of Texas 3,757,440 Workers Have No Paid Sick Leave Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee applauded plans announced by the White House today to strengthen the middle class by working to pass a bill that ensures earned paid sick leave and by proposing new funding in the budget to help more states to create paid family leave programs. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “Today, too many working parents have to struggle to be both good parents at home and good employees in the workplace. Indeed, too many of today’s workplaces have simply not kept pace with the changing American family.” “In 1965, both parents were working outside the home in 40 percent of America’s households with children. Today, both parents are working outside the home in 60 percent of these households. Similarly, in the early 1970s, 31 percent of women with children under the age of five were participating in the labor force. Today, that figure has more than doubled to 63 percent of women with children under the age of five. “We need to bring our workplace policies into the 21st century. Family-friendly policies that better support middle class families can meet the needs of both employers and employees alike. Indeed, paid sick days and paid family leave have been shown to both reduce turnover and increase productivity – improving employers’ bottom-line and strengthening America’s economy.” Following are some of the plans outlined by the White House today that are strongly supported by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee: • Pushing Congress to Pass the Healthy Families Act. The Healthy Families Act would allow working Americans to earn up to seven days per year of paid sick leave. No working parent should have to choose between sending a sick child to school in the morning or losing that day’s paycheck. Yet there are 43 million workers across the country and 3,757,440 workers in Texas alone who currently have no paid sick leave. • Calling on States and Cities to Pass Laws Similar to Healthy Families Act. While Congress is considering the Healthy Families Act, the President will be urging states and cities to pass their own laws allowing workers to earn sick leave. Connecticut and California have enacted statewide paid sick day’s laws and, this year, voters in Massachusetts supported earned sick days by an overwhelming majority. • Providing New Funding to Help More States Create Paid Leave Programs. Three states—California, New Jersey, and Rhode Island – have launched successful programs offering paid family and medical leave, including for such events as the birth of a child, benefiting the workers in those states. The Administration is proposing significant new mandatory funding to help additional states develop these key, effective programs. “Over the next two years, I and other Democrats are going to be fighting for bigger paychecks for middle class families. And we are also going to be fighting for family-friendly policies for middle class families – such policies as paid sick leave and paid family leave – in order to give these working parents the tools they need to be both productive employees at the workplace and successful parents back at home.” ###
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding House Republicans’ Homeland Security funding bill: “It is clear Republicans’ partisan recklessness knows no limits. House Republicans are threatening a partial government shutdown, choosing a time of rising terrorism to imperil the security of our entire country to satisfy the most radical anti-immigrant fringes of their party. “The House majority leadership should have included a clean Homeland Security funding bill in last year's 'CROmnibus,' but chose instead to play partisan games, delaying funding needed by DHS border and aviation security agencies, the Secret Service, Coast Guard and many more. Now the farce continues with poison pill amendments related to the President's executive actions on immigration, which will clearly prevent enactment of the underlying bill. This political game has a real and negative effect on critical agencies working to prevent and respond to emergencies and terrorist attacks like those in France last week. “Instead of building on the President’s actions to restore accountability to our broken immigration system, Republicans have chosen to play games with the security of every American family. Republicans must abandon this spectacularly dangerous tactic, and come together with Democrats to restore certainty to the funding of Homeland Security. I urge Republican leaders to bring a clean Appropriations bill to the floor, without poison pill amendments, that invests appropriately in our homeland security.” ###
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee and the House Judiciary Committee and Co-Chair of the House Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement regarding the latest barbaric acts and killings by Boko Haram: “I continue to be extremely concerned by the recent attacks by Boko Haram against the Nigerian people in the northern region of the country. It has been reported that some 2000 people have been killed by their latest attacks. We must not forget the abduction earlier this year of some 200 girls who were taken from their school hostel in Chibok, Borno State, in Nigeria. My heart goes out to their families, and I am praying that all of those who have been kidnapped will soon be reunited with their families and children. The world must come to the aid of these women, girls and children now. "As a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee I know that children's rights are human rights, and these types of attacks, specifically targeting of schools and villages, are strictly prohibited under international law and cannot be justified under any circumstances. Schools and villages are places of refuge and safety, where families should be allowed to learn and grow without fearing harm coming to them. Girls and young women around the world absolutely must be allowed to go to school peacefully and free from intimidation, persecution and all other forms of discrimination. “Boko Haram, a militant group designated by the State Department in November 2013 as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, has been conducting a reign of terror against innocent Nigerian women, children, and men since 2009, when it killed hundreds of persons during a raid of a police station in Maiduguri. In the last four years, Boko Haram has carried out more than 480 violent attacks against a broad array of targets: Christian and Muslim communities, government installations, schools, hospitals and medical facilities, aid workers, and journalists. Since the beginning of 2013, more than 4,400 innocent persons have been killed and thousands more left homeless. “I am urging the Government of Nigeria to develop its own capacity to deploy specialized police and army units rapidly to rescue these women, children and schoolgirls and bring Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau to justice. Such units also can be deployed to prevent and combat sectarian violence in cities and around the country where there has been a history of sectarian violence. The creation of an elite highly-trained rapid response unit would appear to be a sound short-term strategy that the Government of Nigeria should employ in dealing with violent groups like Boko Haram. This approach was used to successful effect by the Indonesia Government in 2004 to neutralize the Laskar Jihad terrorist organization. “I call on Boko Haram who is responsible for abducting or continuing to hold these girls to release them immediately and unharmed and to stop killing other Nigerians. They must also ensure these young women return home safely, where they rightfully belong.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the University of Houston has been awarded a research grant in the amount of $188,125 from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to support the University’s “Viral nanoparticles as ultrasensitive reporters in lateral-flow assays” research project. “I am delighted to learn that the Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases has been selected the University of Houston to receive this prestigious and generous grant. The funding provided by this grant will enable the University of Houston to expand its disease allergy abatement research programs. I am also pleased that this grant funding will help attract new students to the field and enhance the learning experience for current undergraduate and graduate students. “I am a strong supporter of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and several of their programs and was proud to have advocated for the legislation that authorizes the funding that made this grant possible. “I thank the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for recognizing the contribution to public health of the University allergy research program and its talented researchers and I congratulate Richard Wilson, the principal investigator of the project.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.07.2015	December 31, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and former Chair of its Subcommittee on Transportation Security, released today the following statement: “I extend my very best wishes and prayers to all of the people of the United States for a safe, prosperous, and Happy New Year. My prayer is that Congress will do its part to keep America safe, prosperous, and happy. “The year 2015 marks the 50th anniversary of the passage of the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965, which has rightly been regarded as the most important civil rights advance since the Emancipation Proclamation. One of the first things the new Congress can do to honor this historic achievement is to work constructively and cooperatively to pass the Voting Rights Amendment Act, and ensure that the right of all Americans to vote, and to have their votes counted, is protected. “The year 2015 also marks the 50th anniversary of the passage of Medicare, which, along with Social Security, gave our seniors the peace of mind that they could live out their golden years in dignity and security. In the coming year, Congress should commit itself to ensuring that all Americans continue to have the peace of mind that comes from access to affordable, high quality health care provided by the Affordable Care Act. “Congress can also lead the way in bringing hope and healing to our land by passing criminal justice reform legislation, like my Build TRUST Act (H.R. 5858), establishing innovative and thoughtful policies and practices to strengthen the bond of trust that must exist between law enforcement personnel and the communities they risk their lives to serve and protect. “Nearly everyone agrees that America’s immigration system is broken and needs to be reformed so that it is more humane, more efficient, fairer, and an important component in securing our borders. The best way to do this is for Congress to swiftly pass the comprehensive immigration reform legislation that enjoys bipartisan support in the House and Senate. Nothing would send a stronger signal to the world that America remains the most, diverse, tolerant, and welcoming nation on earth. “Around the world, I join with all Americans in praying for a just and last peace in the Middle East, between Israelis and Palestinians and in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, and for a successful resolution to ongoing efforts to ensure that Iran does not possess the capability to develop nuclear weapons. “It has been almost nine months since the world was horrified by the kidnapping of 300 schoolgirls in Nigeria by the terrorist group Boko Haram but they have not been forgotten. I pray we stand firm in our resolve and demand to “bring back our girls” and to help combat the spread of the Ebola virus. “I am also hopeful that in the new year the United States strengthens its partnership with the nations of Africa as they develop their great natural and human resources to extend economic opportunity, personal freedom, and human dignity to all the people of their lands. “There is much to hope for and to work for in the new year that begins tomorrow. But before we can do that, it is important that all Americans act responsibly and safely tonight as they usher out the old and welcome in the New Year.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and former Chair of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security.
01.07.2015	December 29, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and former Chair of its Subcommittee on Transportation Security, released the following statement regarding missing Air Asia Flight QZ8501: “I am encouraged by the offers of support and technical assistance from the international civil aviation community, including the United States, to assist the civil aviation authorities in Indonesia and Singapore in locating and recovering Air Asia Flight QZ8501. All available resources should be used to help, aid, and assist in locating the missing airplane and do what is possible to help mitigate the anguish and suffering of the families of the missing passengers and crew. “We owe it to families of the passengers and crew of missing Air Asia Flight QZ8501 to find answers and to make all necessary improvements to ensure that a tragedy like this never happens again. “The modern commercial airliner is among the safest machines ever built because their fail-safe and redundancy systems, automated controls, and sophisticated radar systems ensure that almost any crisis can be prevented if the best practices of flight are observed. “But disasters like the one involving the disappearance of Air Asia QZ8501 and Malaysia Flight 370 have revealed glaring weaknesses in aviation technology areas of flight safety, information monitoring, and recovery. It is essential that design processes that do not adequately exploit engineering technology or that prevent life-saving recovery efforts and lower safety standards be fixed immediately. “For example, the fact that tracking technology important to the recovery of an aircraft can be manually disabled in the air is a technological flaw that must be corrected. “Similarly, radar and tracking systems that provide monitoring information regarding the status of aircraft systems are vital in understanding whether operator error or system failure is responsible for aircraft disasters. Unfortunately, the majority of this monitoring information is stored internal to the aircraft, in flight data recorders. “Advanced technology, however, can be employed to send real-time information on airborne aircraft to monitoring stations on the ground, which will enable ground operators to monitor the system information normally contained in the flight data recorder, thus allowing recovery operations to be streamlined and greatly improving future tracking and recovery efforts. “When the 114th Congress convenes next month, I will be introducing legislation to improve flight tracking and monitoring systems required to be installed on all domestic commercial airliners and I call upon the International Civil Aviation Organization to develop comprehensive guidelines to ensure that aircraft worldwide are equipped with real-time, state-of-the-art locator instruments so that in case of emergencies, any airliner, at a minimum, can be identified and located as quickly as possible in real time. “Again, my thoughts and prayers are with the families of the passengers and crew aboard Air Asia Flight QZ8501.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and former Chair of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security.
01.07.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and a Senior Member of the United States’ House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today regarding the fire in a high-rise apartment building for senior citizens that claimed the lives of five persons at the Wedgewood Senior Living Center in Castle Hills, a suburb of San Antonio, Texas on Sunday, December 28, 2014: “I extend my deepest sympathies and heartfelt prayers to families who lost loved ones yesterday in the tragic fire at Wedgewood Senior Living Center. I commend the first responders whose skill and courage resulted in the saving of more than 75 lives. I am confident that a thorough investigation will be conducted to determine the cause of the fire and that corrective actions will be taken to ensure that a tragedy like this does not happen again.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security. She is also a member of the House Democratic Task Force on Seniors.
01.07.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the United States House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement in reference to the announcement by Sony that it will allow showings of the film, “The Interview”: "I applaud Sony's decision to authorize screenings of the film, and it is important to bear in mind that the First Amendment is sacrosanct; and is what separates the U.S. from repressive regimes the world over. “As President Obama has made clear, we are a country that believes in free speech, and the right of artistic expression. The decision made by Sony and participating theaters allows people to make their own choices about the film, and I welcome that outcome. “It is my hope that the principle of freedom for artists in any medium to produce satire and other works is not trampled upon—something that should hold true the world over.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.07.2015	Houston, TX –Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today in response to the announcement that a Harris County grand jury has refused to indict the off-duty Houston Police Officer who shot and killed Jordan Baker, an unarmed 26-year old African-American, in the parking lot of a Houston shopping mall on January 16, 2014: “The decision today of the Harris County grand jury not to return an indictment in the killing of an unarmed African-American male by a Houston Police Department officer is disappointing. Harris County grand juries have not returned indictments against HPD officers in any officer-involved shooting since 2008, notwithstanding the fact that in 25 percent of the 121 cases, the victim was unarmed, as was Jordan Baker. As reported by the Houston Chronicle, Houston police officers have been cleared by Harris County grand juries 288 consecutive times for shootings since 2004. “Houston has an African-American population of 23.7 percent. However, as recently as 2012, African-Americans accounted for 48% percent of victims killed by the police. This cannot and must not continue. This case may be an incident involving racial profiling and the use of excessive force. “I am therefore calling upon the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate the killing of Jordan Baker and to take appropriate action, including convening a federal grand jury, to ensure that his civil and constitutional rights are vindicated. We are all better off when the facts are discovered, the truth is discerned and the family and the community are at peace.” On Tuesday, December 23, 2014, Congresswoman Jackson Lee sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder requesting the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate the death of Jordan Baker. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.23.2014	December 18, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and on Homeland Security released the following statement today applauding the establishment of a White House Task Force on 21st Century Policing: “I applaud the President for the executive order he issued today establishing a White House Task Force on 21st Century Policing. The recent tragedies in Ferguson, New York, and other cities has made clear the pressing need for innovative and thoughtful steps to enhance police training and strengthen trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. “The 11-member Task Force, co-chaired by Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey and George Mason University Professor and two-time former Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs Laurie Robinson includes law enforcement representatives, community leaders, academics, and youth leaders. The mandate of the Task Force is to examine, among other issues, how to strengthen public trust and foster strong relationships between local law enforcement and the communities that they protect. “This lack of public confidence in the system, particularly by residents of minority communities, has the potential for exacerbating already tense relations between law enforcement and community residents that could result in more public confrontations like those occurring recently in Ferguson, Missouri. One area which the Task Force should examine is the efficacy of the growing trend of local units of government to use traffic fines and traffic court fees and costs as revenue generators. This practice is problematic because it breeds public cynicism and distrust of local law enforcement agencies, and lessens public confidence that the laws are being enforced impartially and the criminal justice system is administered equally. “That is why I have introduced and invite the Task Force to consider H.R. 5858, the “Building Bridges and Transforming Resentment and Unfairness to Support and Trust for Municipal Law Enforcement” or “Build TRUST Act,” which addresses this problem by providing for a 75% reduction in the amount of DOJ grant funding that may be awarded to a unit of local government that funds an amount that is greater than 18 percent of its operating budget using revenue generated from collecting fines and other fees related to violations of traffic laws. “Additionally, the amount of the reduction would increase to 95 percent if, for the political subdivision involved, the variance in the racial composition of the local law enforcement agency and residents of the political subdivision exceeds 30 percent for any racial group. “The Build TRUST Act exempts any unit of local government serving a population of less than 15,000 persons and authorizes the Attorney General to grant requests for waivers to individual units of local government upon a showing of good cause. In short, the bill builds trust and mutual respect between local law enforcement agencies and the communities they protect by discouraging practices that undermine the strong public support law enforcement agencies need to fulfill their mission to serve and protect. “I look forward to engaging with the members of the Task Force as it goes about its important work and to reviewing its interim and final reports to the President.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.23.2014	Washington, DC – The threats against America’s police forces should be taken seriously. We should be condemn any threats of violence and bring law enforcement, government officials and community leaders together to chart of a path forward. It is understandable that people are outraged with sadness over the execution of two NYPD officers by a crazed Ismaaiyl Brinsley. “We should all stand up against this violence and then further our discussions about the concerns of the protesters and establish a way to move forward. My sympathy goes out to the families of these officers and as a senior member of the House Committee on Judiciary, I look forward to working with law enforcement, government officials, and community leaders to make our communities safe for everyone.” I applaud Suzan Johnson Cooke the former United States Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom who appropriately indicated that these discussions should include religion and race. The Civil Rights Movement spoke about equal access and the right to vote. Now we must establish a movement that reaffirms our unity as Americans and the importance of a justice system based on truth and order and that ultimately puts an end to racial profiling and establish procedures that will enhance and affirm the important status of America’s law enforcement.” # # # Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.23.2014	December 22, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees and Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus released the following statement today: “I am appalled by record of abuse and mistreatment of children at the Shiloh Treatment Center in Manvel documented by the Houston Chronicle in an expose published December 19, 2014. The abuses documented in that report – ranging from physical violence, unreasonable and excessive use of physical restraints, administering emergency medications without notice to governmental authorities, and several deaths of minor children while in custody – is not reflective of the quality of care and support that should be provided to the at-risk children, including the dozens of unaccompanied immigrant children, committed to its care. “Because of these deficiencies I believe the time has come for the State of Texas to order the closure of the Shiloh Treatment Center. At a minimum, the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services should terminate immediately the contract awarded to Shiloh Treatment Center to provide shelter and treatment to unaccompanied children apprehended by the Border Patrol. “Over many months, local government officials, non-profit organizations, and local charities that have a track record of serving vulnerable children have met and offered to make available to HHS facilities where unaccompanied children would be care for in a safe and supportive housing environment. I urge the State of Texas and HHS to explore this option as a viable alternative to continued reliance upon the Shiloh Treatment Center. “All vulnerable and at-risk children deserve housing and shelter that is safe and supportive. I thank my colleague Congressman Pete Olson for his oversight and commitment to the well-being of the children entrusted to Shiloh Treatment Center and look forward to working with him and others to ensure that the Office of Refugee Resettlement exercises proper oversight over the facilities sheltering unaccompanied children.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.22.2014	December 19, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, Co-Chair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus, and Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus released the following statement today: “I stand in solidarity with thousands of Pakistani citizens engaged in peaceful demonstrations demanding their government to take more aggressive action to end the cycle of violence and terror wrought by the Taliban. The horrific attack and murder of 148 persons, including 132 precious schoolchildren, by the Taliban at the Army Public School in Peshawar, Pakistan appears to be a turning point marking the end of the Pakistan Government’s policy of ambivalence toward jihadists groups. “I am also encouraged by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s declaration that there would be no more ‘good Taliban, and that henceforth militants ‘would be dealt equally with an iron hand.’ Pakistanis want peace and safety, and demand justice for those victims who lost their lives in the attack at the Army Public School. “I urge the leaders of America’s Pakistani communities to gather in Washington, D.C. at the earliest feasible time to discuss ideas and collectives measures to be taken in support the people of Pakistan in the effort to defeat the Taliban and end the violence in their land.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.22.2014	December 18, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement regarding North Korea’s involvement in the recent cyberattack against Sony Pictures: “Cybercrimes committed by international actors constitute a serious threat to our national, economic, and homeland security. Disrupting, degrading, and defeating an attackers ability to engage in cyberattacks against the United States must be a national priority. I fully support President Obama’s efforts to increase the security of the nation’s public and private cybernetworks since the earliest days of his administration. It should be noted that it is estimated that 85 percent of cybercrime targets are commercial or non-governmental entities. “Cybersecurity requires vigilance and proactive work on the part of the government, private sector, and individuals to guard against vulnerabilities and intentional acts that could cripple or seriously undermine the ability of critical infrastructure to deliver vital services to communities around the nation. “When the 114th Congress convenes I will introduce two bills to fight the growing threat of cyberattacks. The first, “Terrorism Prevention and Critical Infrastructure Protection Act,” directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to work with critical infrastructure owners and operators as well as state, local, tribal and territorial entities to take proactive steps to manage risk and strengthen the security and resilience of the Nation’s critical infrastructure against terrorist attacks. “The second bill is the “Cybersecurity Workforce and Defense Education Act,” which focuses resources on closing the gap in the demand for cybersecurity experts and the thousands of positions in the federal government and private sector that are going unfilled. Cyber conflicts are fights that we can win, but we cannot win by leaving any one behind in the race to lift minds and capacities through effective cyber-STEM education programs.” “When the 114th Congress convenes next month, I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, and the Committees on Intelligence, Armed Services, and Energy and Commerce to develop legislative proposals to respond to the security threats posed by those who engage in cybercrime.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.22.2014	December 18, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and on Homeland Security released the following statement today applauding the establishment of a White House Task Force on 21st Century Policing: “I applaud the President for the executive order he issued today establishing a White House Task Force on 21st Century Policing. The recent tragedies in Ferguson, New York, and other cities has made clear the pressing need for innovative and thoughtful steps to enhance police training and strengthen trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. “The 11-member Task Force, co-chaired by Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey and George Mason University Professor and two-time former Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs Laurie Robinson includes law enforcement representatives, community leaders, academics, and youth leaders. The mandate of the Task Force is to examine, among other issues, how to strengthen public trust and foster strong relationships between local law enforcement and the communities that they protect. “This lack of public confidence in the system, particularly by residents of minority communities, has the potential for exacerbating already tense relations between law enforcement and community residents that could result in more public confrontations like those occurring recently in Ferguson, Missouri. One area which the Task Force should examine is the efficacy of the growing trend of local units of government to use traffic fines and traffic court fees and costs as revenue generators. This practice is problematic because it breeds public cynicism and distrust of local law enforcement agencies, and lessens public confidence that the laws are being enforced impartially and the criminal justice system is administered equally. “That is why I have introduced and invite the Task Force to consider H.R. 5858, the “Building Bridges and Transforming Resentment and Unfairness to Support and Trust for Municipal Law Enforcement” or “Build TRUST Act,” which addresses this problem by providing for a 75% reduction in the amount of DOJ grant funding that may be awarded to a unit of local government that funds an amount that is greater than 18 percent of its operating budget using revenue generated from collecting fines and other fees related to violations of traffic laws. “Additionally, the amount of the reduction would increase to 95 percent if, for the political subdivision involved, the variance in the racial composition of the local law enforcement agency and residents of the political subdivision exceeds 30 percent for any racial group. “The Build TRUST Act exempts any unit of local government serving a population of less than 15,000 persons and authorizes the Attorney General to grant requests for waivers to individual units of local government upon a showing of good cause. In short, the bill builds trust and mutual respect between local law enforcement agencies and the communities they protect by discouraging practices that undermine the strong public support law enforcement agencies need to fulfill their mission to serve and protect. “I look forward to engaging with the members of the Task Force as it goes about its important work and to reviewing its interim and final reports to the President.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security, released the following statement today regarding the Department of Veteran Affairs Blueprint for Excellence: “Veterans Day is a time to honor and remember the millions of veterans in this generation and generations past who have made countless sacrifices in service of our country. “I applaud the progress made today by the DVA in accelerating access to health care and addressing deficiencies as documented in its Blueprint for Excellence report released today. That report indicates that in the last 90 days, DVA has: 1. Scheduled more than 1.2 million more appointments in the past four months than in the same period last year. 2. In total, VA medical centers have scheduled over 19 million Veteran appointments from June to October 1, 2014. 3. Reduced the national new patient Primary Care wait time by 18 percent. 4. Completed 98 percent of appointments within 30 days of the Veterans’ preferred date, or the date determined to be medically necessary by a physician. 5. Authorized 1.1 million non-VA care authorizations, a 47 percent increase over the same period last year. “DVA’s mission is to rebuild trust with veterans, improve service delivery, and set the course for long-term excellence and reform will ultimately benefit millions of our nations deserving veterans. The progress made today is a significant step in the right direction. “Our nation must come together to celebrate our veterans who have courageously defended our freedom, and honor the memory of the more than 4,400 American servicemen and women who have died in Iraq and more than 2,200 who have died in Afghanistan. We also honor the sacrifices of over 50,000 brave troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. A grateful nation cares for its soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen, not only when they are abroad, but also upon their return home. “Veteran care is a priority to me, to the VA Department, and to the millions of veterans and their families across the country, and I am committed to ensuring quality care for those who have fought for our freedoms. Our veterans deserve quality job opportunities, superb healthcare, and the promise of college as they return from the frontlines, and I have worked tirelessly to ensure these services for the more than 2 million troops and reservists, their families, and 22 million veterans, including 29,757 in the 18th Congressional District of Texas. “On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind; as a nation, it is our duty to leave no veteran behind. This day and every day, let us honor their service with actions that fulfill our commitment to our troops, their families, and our veterans – and that are worthy of our grateful nation.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security released the following statement today in honor of Veterans Day: “Veterans Day is a time to honor and remember the millions of veterans in this generation and generations past who have made countless sacrifices in service of our country. Our nation must come together to celebrate our veterans who have courageously defended our freedom, and honor the memory of the more than 4,400 American servicemen and women who have died in Iraq and more than 2,200 who have died in Afghanistan. We also honor the sacrifices of over 50,000 brave troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. “A grateful nation cares for its soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen, not only when they are abroad, but also upon their return home. Our veterans deserve quality job opportunities, superb healthcare, and the promise of college as they return from the frontlines, and I am committed to the more than 2 million troops and reservists, their families, and 22 million veterans, including 32,477 in the 18th Congressional District of Texas. “On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind; as a nation, it is our duty to leave no veteran behind. This day and every day, let us honor their service with actions that fulfill our commitment to our troops, their families, and our veterans – and that are worthy of our grateful nation.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
11.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security, and a senior member and former Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, released the following statement today regarding the kidnapping of 43 college students in the city of Iguala, in the southern Mexican state of Guerrero: “My thoughts and prayers go out the family and friends of the 43 college students from the Raul Isidro Burgos Rural Teachers College of Ayotzinapa, who were kidnapped on September 26, 2014. As a mother, I can only imagine the heartbreak and horror felt by the family members anxiously awaiting a glimpse of good news. No parent should ever have to experience the pain of losing a child. Along with parents all over the world who understand the pain and suffering being endured by those whose children were abducted, I pray for the swift and safe return of the missing college students. “It is outrageous that these 43 college students have gone missing for more than 40 days. I call upon the Administration and the international community to render all necessary and appropriate assistance to the federal and state authorities in Mexico to aid the effort to bring about the safe return of the missing students and the apprehension and prosecution of those responsible. “The students were traveling to Iguala, Guerrero to protest discriminatory hiring and funding practices by the government when they were confronted and ambushed. It is utterly unacceptable that the fugitive Mayor of Iguala is complicit in this mass kidnapping. These crimes must be punished to the full extent of the law. “¿Y si se tratara de sus hijos? What if it were your kids? They are all of our kids. And that is why we cannot rest until they are found.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
10.06.2014	WHAT: Roundtable discussion with Members of Congress and national and local federally qualified health clinics and health care experts from the Houston community in order to discuss their views regarding the most pressing healthcare challenges that healthcare providers are experiencing. Topics of discussion will include Texas not fully participating in Medicaid expansion; the numbers of persons seeking assistance and the capacity of service providers to meet that demand WHEN: Monday October 6, 2014 TIME: 3:30 pm PRESS CONFERENCE Trevisio and Conference Center – 6th Floor 6550 Bertner St Houston, TX 77030 WHO: The Honorable Sheila Jackson Lee, The Honorable Gene Green, The Honorable Frank Pallone (6-NJ), Senior Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Ranking Member of the Committee's Subcommittee on Health, Center for Disease Control Officials, local Health Care officials and others. ###
10.06.2014	WHAT: Roundtable discussion with Members of Congress and national and local federally qualified health clinics and health care experts from the Houston community in order to discuss their views regarding the most pressing healthcare challenges that healthcare providers are experiencing. Topics of discussion will include Texas not fully participating in Medicaid expansion; the numbers of persons seeking assistance and the capacity of service providers to meet that demand; and what additional resources are needed to address potential healthcare situations like the child respiratory Enterovirus D68 or the Ebola concerns raised by the first U.S. based case occurring in Dallas Texas. WHEN: Monday October 6, 2014 TIME: 11:00 am Health Care Roundtable Discussion Houston Area Community Services 2150 West 18th Street, Suite 300, Houston, Texas 77008. 3:00 pm PRESS CONFERENCE Texas Children's Hospital 6651 South Main, Suite E520 Houston, Texas 77030 WHO: The Honorable Sheila Jackson Lee, The Honorable Frank Pallone (6-NJ), Senior Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Ranking Member of the Committee's Subcommittee on Health, local Health Care officials and others. ###
09.30.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent security breaches at the White House: “I am calling for additional Congressional hearings by the House Homeland Security Committee in regards to the recent security breaches on the grounds of the White House this past weekend. These hearings will not impede the ongoing investigations as the image of the Secret Services needs to be restructured. I believe we must not only reestablish the mission of the Secret Service but also work to restore the integrity that agency must maintain. “A Washington Post article recently referred to a shooting at the White House back in 2011 that was not discovered until 4 days later. Last week the First Family had just departed the White House when an intruder scaled the north fence, darted across the lawn and into the White House, where Secret Service agents nabbed him. The man in jeans and a dark shirt who scaled the fence shortly after 7 p.m. appeared to be unarmed, but ignored commands from officers to halt. A few weeks earlier the Secret Service apprehended a man who jumped over the same stretch of fence on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, prompting officers to draw their firearms and deploy service dogs as they took the man into custody. “I understand that it is not uncommon for people to jump over the White House fence but they are typically stopped almost immediately and rarely get very far. Behavior like this cannot be tolerated within the ranks of the Secret Service. Unfortunately, this current debacle may have undermined the confidence of the American people in the Secret Service and may have affected other workers in sensitive positions. “Let me be clear – these incidents are totally unacceptable and these incidents are just one of a string of security failings on the Secret Service’s watch including the shots fired at the White House back in 2011. These are good men and women, but the Secret Service leadership has a lot of questions to answer. Today I will be participating in the hearing with Oversight and Government Reform and I look forward from hearing from Director Julia Pierson of the Secret Service regarding these allegations.” ###
09.30.2014	September 29, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and currently Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee and former Chairwoman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the recent security breach at the FAA center at an Aurora, Illinois radar center last week: “Four days after a blaze allegedly set by contract worker Brian Howard destroyed the communications center at the critical air traffic control center outside Chicago, commercial aviation is still trying to regain its footing. At Chicago's O'Hare Airport, more than 550 flights were cancelled Sunday, 700 flights nationwide. I am calling for immediate Congressional hearings and a new security assessment for contract employees in sensitive areas where security may be breached, where major aviation disruption may occur and where lives may be in jeopardy. “We all understand the traveling public's frustrations with flight delays and cancellations. The air transportation system is vital to our economy and can be vulnerable to security breaches. We have to make it a top priority because people rely on it to function 24 hours a day, seven days a week. I want to make sure that we have the most robust contingency plans possible. Congress stands ready to make immediate changes in relations to what happened last Friday to improve the system. .” ###
09.30.2014	September 23, 2014 WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after the Department of Health and Human Services announced $479,991 in grant awards to the University of Houston for their project entitled “Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training for Professionals and Paraprofessionals”: “I am thrilled to announce that the University of Houston has been awarded a $479,991 grant. Knowledgeable, well-trained healthcare workers are essential to develop and sustain Houston’s thriving medical facilities, and the University of Houston’s dedication to educating and training professionals is leaving a profound, positive impact. “Patients from across the nation come to Houston for medical treatment thanks to the outstanding reputation of our medical professionals and treatment facilities. This reputation could not have been achieved without programs devoted to educating the health workforce, and the University of Houston is committed to advancing the training of both professionals and paraprofessionals. “I would like to personally congratulate McClain Sampson, the director of the Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training for Professionals project at the University of Houston. I would also like to thank the Department of Health and Human Services for recognizing the University of Houston and their achievements within the medical field.” ###
08.28.2014	Houston, TX –Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today at the rally and press conference organized by the Houston Lawyers Association demanding justice for Robbie Tolan, a young unarmed African American male who was shot and seriously injured by a Bellaire Police Department officer in the driveway of his home even though he had had committed no crime, and whose innocence had been affirmed to the officer by his mother and father: “I stand today with the Houston Lawyers Association, the National Bar Association, the Houston Chapter of the NAACP, 100 Black Men of Metropolitan Houston, the Black Farmers and Agriculturalists Association, and those everywhere who strongly support justice in demanding justice for Robbie Tolan. “The U.S. Supreme Court’s decision vacating the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals judgment and remanding the case was a welcome and positive step. Now we call upon the lower courts to finish the job by giving Robbie Tolan his constitutional right to have his case heard by a jury. “According to the FBI’s most recent accounts of ‘justifiable homicide,’ in the seven years between 2005 and 2012, a white police officer used deadly force against an African American person almost two times every week. “One of the most notorious of these shootings occurred close to home. We all remember the outrageous case involving young Robbie Tolan, a promising professional baseball player, who was shot and seriously injured by a Bellaire Police Department officer while in the driveway of his home, 15 to 20 feet away from the officer, had committed no crime, and whose innocence had been affirmed to the officer by his mother and father. “This case appears to be another strong and clear case of racial profiling in which an innocent African American male is yet again the victim of gun violence at the hands of a law enforcement officer who assumed him guilty and dangerous because of his race. “So sure was the officer that the young, gifted, and black Robbie Tolan was guilty of some crime and dangerous that within 32 seconds of his arrival at the scene, he shot Robbie Tolan in the chest, the bullet piercing his lung, lodging in his liver, and ending Robbie Tolan’s once promising prospects of becoming a major league baseball player like his father had been. “When Robbie Tolan filed a lawsuit seeking justice against defendant pursuant to 42 U. S. C. §1983 alleging, inter alia, that the officer had used excessive force against him in violation of his Fourth Amendment rights, he was met with another injustice when his case was dismissed by U.S. District Court Judge Melinda Harmon on the ground that the officer acted reasonably in shooting Robbie Tolan within less than a minute of arriving on the scene. The injustice was compounded when the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the lower court judgment on appeal, holding that regardless of whether the officer used excessive force, he was entitled to qualified immunity because he did not violate “any clearly established right” of Robbie Tolan. “The U.S. Supreme Court rightly reversed that judgment, taking the extraordinary action of simultaneously granting the petition for certiorari and summarily vacating the decision and remanding the case for further proceedings consistent with its opinion. “The Supreme Court ruled unanimously that the Fifth Circuit committed reversible error by violating the well-settled principle that a “’judge’s function’ at summary judg­ment is not ‘to weigh the evidence and determine the truth of the matter but to determine whether there is a genuine issue for trial.’” 572 U.S. ___, slip op. at 7, quoting Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U. S. 242, 249 (1986). The court compounded its error by weighing the evidence not “in the light most favorable” to the non-moving party, Tolan, as required by law, id., slip op. at 7, but instead by drawing all inferences from the evidence in favor of the moving party, the officer. Id., slip op. at 8. “The significance of the Supreme Court’s decision is that the claim that the officer acted reasonably as a matter of law in shooting an unarmed man who was at least 15-20 feet away is no longer tenable and leaves little to no room for doubt that: (1) plaintiff Tolan had produced sufficient evidence of the officer’s culpability to have the case decided by a jury; and (2) Robbie Tolan’s evidence, if believed by a jury, would be sufficient to sustain a verdict in his Tolan’s favor that his clearly established civil and constitutional rights under 42 U.S.C. §1983 and the Fourth Amendment had been violated by the officer. “As Americans we must demand that the law is applied fairly and equally to all persons in the courtroom and on the street. And one of the first steps to take in achieving this goal is for the court to permit Robbie Tolan to have his case heard by a jury.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.26.2014	Houston, TX –Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today at the rally and press conference organized by the Houston Lawyers Association demanding action to stem the epidemic of unarmed African American males being the victims of lethal force by police departments across the country: “The strength and foundation of democratic government rests upon the consent and confidence of the governed. Similarly, effective enforcement of the law and administration of justice requires that the community has confidence that the law will be enforced impartially and that all persons are treated equally without regard to race or ethnicity or religion or national origin. “While most police officers take this responsibility seriously and strive to treat all persons equally and with respect, their efforts are too often undermined by some of their colleagues who abuse the enormous trust and confidence placed in them. These officers must be removed because their actions undermine the good work of their colleagues and betray the persons they swore an oath to protect and serve. “In recent months, the nation has been repeatedly shocked by the killings of unarmed African Americans, mainly young African American males, by persons claiming, despite substantial and credible evidence to the contrary, that the use of lethal force was justified. The tragic killing of Michael Brown is just the latest example. Last month in Staten Island, unarmed Eric Garner, an asthmatic 43-year old father of six and grandparent, died from an unlawful chokehold administered by a New York Police Department officer who suspected Mr. Garner of selling an untaxed pack of cigarettes. “And closer to home, we all remember the outrageous case involving young Robbie Tolan, who was shot and seriously injured by a white Bellaire Police Department officer while in the driveway of his home, 15 to 20 feet away from the officer, had committed no crime, and whose innocence had been affirmed to the officer by his mother and father. “According to the FBI’s most recent accounts of ‘justifiable homicide,’ in the seven years between 2005 and 2012, a white police officer used deadly force against an African American person almost two times every week. Of those African American persons killed, 18 percent, or nearly one in every five, was under 21 years of age. In contrast, only 8.7 percent of white persons killed by police officers were younger than 21. “In 2012, Houston had an African American population of 23.7 percent. That same year, African Americans accounted for 48% percent of victims killed by the police. Chicago was even worse with a whopping 91% of police killings involving an African American victim, nearly three times their percentage of the city’s population. For New York, the comparable figures were 87% and 2836 percent. Across the country, in 2012 there were 739 justifiable homicide shootings by police and citizens and of these, 313 of the victims (42.35%) were African American. “This cannot and must not continue. That is why I am renewing my request to Attorney General Holder that in addition to investigating the killing of Michael Brown, the Department of Justice should also launch a nationwide review of problematic police departments and take appropriate action to ensure there is a zero tolerance policy when it comes to patterns or practices of police misconduct. “As Americans we must demand that the law is applied fairly and equally to all persons in the courtroom and on the street. Achieving this goal is the best way to honor the memory of Michael Brown. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.19.2014	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) and House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (MI-13) released the following statement in relation to their joint request to Attorney General Eric H. Holder which urged the U.S. Department of Justice to take the lead role in the investigation and prosecution of those responsible for the killing of unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri: “The events of recent days make it clear that the local law enforcement authorities in Ferguson, Missouri are overwhelmed by the circumstances surrounding the police shooting death of Michael Brown and are in dire need of assistance from the Department of Justice to restore both order and community confidence. We were heartened by the announcement that Attorney General Holder will travel to Ferguson tomorrow to personally lead the federal response. The Department has historically played a critical role in ensuring that local jurisdictions have adequate resources to prosecute controversial cases involving the deprivation of civil rights, particularly cases involving the police.” “The conduct of the Ferguson Police Department in the aftermath of the shooting has led to heightened tensions and fear among community residents. While we appreciate that the facts are still developing in this case and we do not pre-judge the incident, we also believe that the gravity of the situation and numerous lapses made to date by local authorities justifies the immediate intervention of the Department. As a first step to restoring community trust, there should be no hint of bias in the investigation or prosecution and we hope that both local and federal investigators can work cooperatively to serve the ends of justice for both the victim and those involved in the shooting.” “As Americans we want to honor the rule of law, as Members of Congress it is our responsibility to seek justice, but as parents we grieve with the family of Michael Brown.” ###
08.07.2014	“Mickey Leland was a humble but larger than life man who humbled himself to find the most impoverished and the neediest and worked to make the pathway of their life better. He was a man who sought to make the pathways of those unknown to him better than the misery in which he found them. Gregarious with a wonderful smile and laugh, and friend to many, Congressman Leland left a remarkable footprint not only on Houston and Texas and America but around the world. We thank his wonderful family, including his mother Alice, for sharing him with us. May God rest his soul and may we never forget on this day in the years and decades to come to remember to say the name “Mickey” and say a simple thank you.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Eighteenth Congressional District of Texas
08.06.2014	HOUSTON– Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today marking the 49th anniversary of the landmark Voting Rights Act signed by President Lyndon Johnson on August 6, 1965: “In the 49 years since its passage on this day in 1965, the Voting Rights Act has safeguarded the right of Americans to vote and stood as an obstacle to many of the more egregious attempts by certain states and local jurisdictions to game the system by passing discriminatory changes to their election laws and administrative policies. “In signing the Voting Rights Act on August 6, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson said: ‘The vote is the most powerful instrument ever devised by man for breaking down injustice and destroying the terrible walls which imprison men because they are different from other men.’ “But on June 25, 2013, the Supreme Court decided Shelby County v. Holder, 570 U.S. 193 (2013), which invalidated Section 4(b) of the VRA, and paralyzed the application of the VRA’s Section 5 preclearance requirements, which protect minority voting rights where voter discrimination has historically been the worst. Since 1982, Section 5 has stopped more than 1,000 discriminatory voting changes in their tracks, including 107 discriminatory changes in Texas. “Although much progress has been made with regard to Civil Rights there is still much work to be done in order to prevent systemic voter suppression and discrimination within our communities and we must remain ever vigilant and oppose schemes that will abridge or dilute the precious right to vote. “H.R. 3899, ‘Voting Rights Amendments Act of 2014,’ of which I am an original co-sponsor, repairs the damage done to the Voting Rights Act by the Supreme Court decision and is capable of winning majorities in the House and Senate and the signature of the President. “This legislation replaces the old ‘static’ coverage formula with a new dynamic coverage formula, or ‘rolling trigger,’ which effectively gives the legislation nationwide reach because any state and any jurisdiction in any state potentially is subject to being covered if the requisite number of violations are found to have been committed. “For millions of Americans, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 is sacred treasure, earned by the sweat and toil and tears and blood of ordinary Americans who showed the world it was possible to accomplish extraordinary things. “The Voting Rights Act is needed as much today to prevent another epidemic of voting disenfranchisement as Dr. Salk’s vaccine is still needed to prevent another polio epidemic. I again call upon Speaker Boehner to bring H.R. 3899, ‘Voting Rights Amendments Act of 2014’ to the floor for a vote.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
07.31.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today after the House Republicans failed to bring up a Supplemental bill that would address the humanitarian crisis at our southern border: “This supplemental bill presented today by the House Republicans sadly falls short in too many ways. The key Federal agencies tasked with responding to the humanitarian crisis on our borders are dangerously close to running out of money. I received dozens of briefings. These unanticipated costs are affecting the core functions at the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services. And although the bill includes modest funding to hire additional immigration judicial teams and help set up new repatriation centers in Central America, the amounts provided are insufficient. The Justice Department and the State Department will not be able to handle their duties without significantly more resources. All four departments need more funding than this bill provides and fewer partisan, immigration policy riders than this bill now contains. “The Majority unwisely included legislative language to make sweeping changes to current law related to due process in immigration proceedings. The Wilberforce provisions are crucial provisions to protect vulnerable and desperate children who have been smuggled or victims of human trafficking and the Republicans are going to ‘willy nilly’ to get rid of those protections. Controversial legislation, hastily added to an emergency supplemental, is not the way to address a complicated problem. “On July 8th, the President requested $3.7 billion in emergency funding; this bill provides less than $700 million. The President requested funding through fiscal year 2015; this bill barely covers the remaining weeks in FY 2014, setting this House up to do this all over again in September. “In addition to not funding important priorities, the Majority offsets the funding that is provided with cuts to other programs. We should provide emergency funds in a crisis situation. Lastly, I strongly object to the Majority’s significant policy changes to existing law without any hearings or markups. Three quarters of this appropriations bill is straight authorizing legislation. Clearly, many factors led these desperate parents to hand off their children to complete strangers with the hope they make their way to safety here. We ought to consider the complicated policy questions and provide a carefully considered solution. Yet, these policy changes reveal a knee-jerk response coupled with another bill to deport children who are already in the U.S. “In addition to emergency appropriations, we should consider bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform passed by the Senate over one year ago, which could have helped to prevent the current humanitarian crisis along our southwest border by increasing border security personnel and nearly doubling the number of immigration judges. The two measures we are considering today are deeply disappointing. We should provide sufficient funding to cash-strapped agencies quickly and without the baggage of controversial immigration policy riders. I will not be voting for this bill and I regret even more the consequences of our failure.” ###
07.29.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Ranking Member of House Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, and Founder and Co-Chair of the House Children’s Caucus, released the following statement after introducing the “Securing Assistance for Victims of Exploitation Act of 2014,” or SAVE Act (H.R. 5238): “One of the most effective resources in bringing criminals to justice is the cooperation and assistance of their victims. “Perpetrators of crime know that they are more likely to evade detection and punishment when their victims refuse to assist or cooperate with law enforcement. That is why they make it a point to instill fear in their victims – for their own safety or that of family and loved ones. “Unfortunately, many victims of crime and victims of human trafficking are unaware of the existence and availability of this temporary relief provided by the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Act. “And that is in part because many local and state law enforcement officers are not fully aware of all of the protections and assistance available to victims of trafficking, including eligibility to receive SNAP benefits. “The ‘Securing Assistance of Victims of Exploitation Act of 2014’ or SAVE Act (H.R. 5238), provides another tool in law enforcement’s arsenal to tip the balance in favor of the victims of human trafficking by making it clear that providing victims of trafficking access to information about their eligibility to receive SNAP benefits does not constitute the type of SNAP recruitment activities or “advertising” of the SNAP program prohibited by Section 4018 of the Agriculture Act of 2014 (Public Law No: 113-079) passed earlier this year. “The SAVE Act simply affirms the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture and other federal agency heads to provide the assistance and benefits to certain victims of trafficking already permitted by the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. §7105(b), 114 Stat. 1464, Pub. Law 106-386). “By helping victims of human trafficking, we will catch more human trafficking criminals. And that will enable us to save other children from ever becoming victims.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
07.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement after some House conservatives called for a vote this week on a resolution declaring that President Obama already has ‘the necessary tools at his disposal’ to address the flood of undocumented minors arriving from Central America: “Today I call upon Speaker Boehner to immediately bring to the floor for debate the emergency supplemental which fully funds the $3.7 billion requested by the President to deal with the humanitarian crisis on our southern border. This must be done before Congress adjourns for the August recess. It would be irresponsible to do otherwise. “The influx of unaccompanied minors across the southern border is a complex humanitarian crisis that requires swift action to prevent and respond to the serious challenges it is creating. “I deplore the continued Republican maneuvering and their special-interest agenda of obstruction and dysfunction. While Democrats work provide border agencies with sufficient funding and resources to deal with the humanitarian crisis, Republicans are wasting time and taxpayer dollars on another hypocritical, partisan and preposterous lawsuit against the President.” ###
07.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and ranking member of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, announced today that the U.S. CBP has selected the Port Houston Authority as one of the 16 U.S. ports to enter into reimbursable service agreements: “I am pleased to announce that the CBP has chosen Houston during initial selections for 16 new reimbursable services agreements to promote economic growth in cross-border trade and travel across the country. “Last year, the CBP entered into similar reimbursable service agreements with the city of El Paso, Texas, the City of Houston Airport System, Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. Because of these agreements, CBP implemented 9,000 additional CBP officers and opened primary lanes and booths for an additional 24,000 hours at the request of 560 partners. The City of Houston Airport received added staffing and supplementary lane openings, in addition to Automated Passport Control deployments and other innovative technology effort. This helped decrease wait times by an average of almost 30 percent while traveler volume has increased about 7 percent over the last year. “As a strong supporter of the CBP’s Resource Optimization Strategy, I am glad that the CBP has recognized Houston for this partnership. These reimbursable service agreements will allow CBP to provide new or expanded services at domestic ports of entry around the country.” ###
07.24.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after participating in “Witness Wednesdays” where Members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, faith, labor, and non-profit leaders focused on giving a voice to the pain of the unemployed by reading their stories and examining the long-term impact of unemployment on local economies and small businesses: “Earlier this year in an effort to restore unemployment insurance to the nearly 64,000 Texas residents and the 1.3 million unemployed workers nationally who lost their unemployment insurance, and protect the nearly 72,000 additional Americans losing their benefits each week I cosponsored H.R. 3824 - The Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act that would extend federal unemployment insurance for three months. “This legislation was advanced for consideration as part of a procedural motion that was blocked by Republicans by a vote of 226-191. Earlier this year the President announced a $150 million grant competition through the Department of Labor to support innovative public-private partnerships geared toward helping prepare and place the long-term unemployed in open positions. The President led by example by using his executive authority to sign a Presidential Memorandum to ensure the federal government also adopted these best practices, to ensure individuals who are unemployed or have faced financial difficulties due to no fault of their own receive fair treatment and consideration for employment. “I will always be a steadfast and dedicated leader in the fight to extend unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who have worked hard, played by the rules, and lost their job through no fault of their own. I have introduced H.R. 3888 - the ‘New Chance for a New Start in Life Act’ provides a means for training the long-term unemployed to fill the high-demand positions of the future. This bill creates a conduit for the long-term unemployed to receive grants that can be used to receive the crucial training that can undoubtedly afford them a new start after months of unsuccessful attempts at getting jobs. Additionally, these grants do not impact the individual’s current unemployment compensation benefits. This training will prepare them specifically for labor fields of projected growth, like health care, social assistance and construction sectors. It will empower people that want to work by giving them the skills necessary to succeed.” “I have also introduced H.R. 3773 – the ‘Unemployed Jobhunters Protection and Assistance Act of 2013,’ which extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) for 12 months, until January 1, 2015. For many Americans, this extension is a necessity of life. This action would not be necessary had the House adopted the amendment offered by the Democrats which have extended these unemployment benefits. I strongly supported that alternative because we should not be depriving hard working job hunters of this compensation. This is NOT a partisan issue: The Emergency Unemployment Compensation program was signed into law in 2008 by President Bush when the unemployment rate was 5.6 percent and the average duration of unemployment was 17 weeks. Today – after the last two good months of job growth – the unemployment rate is 7 percent and the average spell is 36 weeks. Long-term unemployment has been growing because the job market remains so bad. “Nearly 1.3 million long-term unemployed workers, including the 64,000 Texas residents, lost their unemployment insurance when benefits expired on December 28, 2013. Economists have reported that unemployment insurance is one of the best ways to spur economic growth, delivering $1.52 in economic activity for every $1 spent.” ###
07.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the heinous actions by the pro-Russian Separatists in Ukraine who refuse to turn over the bodies of the victims of Malaysian Airlines Flight 17: “My thoughts and prayers continue to be with the families of the passengers of Flight 17. The lawless actions of the separatists in eastern Ukraine must be stopped now!!!!!! The Russian Government bears responsibility for this atrocity by supplying the separatists with advanced weapons and encouraging their assaults on Ukrainian forces, including shooting down military aircraft. Vladimir Putin has the power to end this conflict by pressing the separatists to accept President Poroshenko’s accommodating plan to bring peace to Ukraine and prevent further bloodshed. “Today while in Houston I went and paid my respects to those who lost their lives in this heinous incident. The Russian separatists must stop threating the lives of those responsible for investigating this crime. They must also allow the families to come to the crash area if they want to. There needs to be a prompt international investigation with unimpeded access to the crash site. Also, as the party responsible for arming the separatists, Russia needs to publicly call on the separatists to lay down their weapons and grant immediate access to international and Ukrainian investigators. Russia also has the obligation to support a mutual ceasefire, a roadmap for peace talks, secure the release of the bodies of the victims, an Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) border monitoring mission, and most importantly, to halt the flow of heavy weapons – including anti-aircraft systems and other equipment – across the border. “Again, the strongest sanctions must be placed on Russia and President Putin. A cease fire must start right now and the separatist must admit failure and defeat so that the Ukraine government can govern all of Ukraine and the world should stand collectively in condemning this horrible intrusion into the peaceful use of international skies. As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee I will seek congressional hearings on this aviation terrorist act.” ###
07.21.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today after the U.S. Sentencing Commission unanimously voted to make retroactive the amended guidelines adopted in February lowering the base offense levels in the Drug Quantity Table across drug types, which may mean lower sentences for most drug offenders: “Today’s unanimous vote of the U.S. Sentencing Commission to apply retroactively the reduction in the sentencing guideline levels applicable to most federal drug trafficking offenders retroactively is welcome news to the families and loved ones of the estimated 46,290 persons eligible to have their cases reviewed by a judge to determine if their sentence should be reduced by on average of 25 months, or as much as 18.8 percent. “The United States incarcerates nearly 25 percent of the world’s inmates, even though it only has 5 percent of the world’s population. Thirty years ago, there were less than 30,000 inmates in the federal system; today, there are nearly 216,000, an increase of 800 percent. This over-crowding of our federal prison system – at an annual cost of about $6.5 billion – is the direct and proximate result of the proliferation of offenses carrying mandatory-minimums and the discriminatory 100-1 disparity between crack and powder cocaine sentences in federal law. “African Americans and Hispanics comprise more than 6 in 10 federal inmates incarcerated for drug offenses. And African American offenders receive sentences that are 10 percent longer than white offenders for the same crimes and are 21 percent more likely to receive mandatory-minimum sentences than white defendants according to the U.S. Sentencing Commission. “Today’s announcement by the U.S. Sentencing Commission is particularly gratifying to those of us who worked tirelessly over the last two decades to restore balance and justice to federal drug sentencing policy. In 2005, I introduced the “No More Tulias Act of 2005” (H.R. 2620) in response to the infamous drug task force scandal in Tulia, Texas that occurred six years earlier, during which 15 percent of the town's African American population was arrested, prosecuted and sentenced to decades in prison based on the uncorroborated testimony of a federally funded undercover officer with a record of racial impropriety. “Later, in 2007, I introduced the “Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2007” (H.R. 4545), bipartisan legislation eliminating the unjust and discriminatory 100 to 1 disparity between crack and powder cocaine sentences in federal law. Companion legislation in the Senate was introduced by then Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware (S. 1711). Three years later, this effort bore fruit when the Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the “Fair Sentencing Act of 2010” (P.L. 111-220), which finally ended the 100:1 ratio that had resulted in unconscionable racial disparities in the average length of sentences for comparable offenses. “But a large gap remained in the justice provided by this landmark legislation: its provisions were not retroactive. That gap has been filled today by the unanimous vote of the Sentencing Commission. Beginning in November of this year, all federal inmates sentenced under the old regime are to be afforded the opportunity to have their sentences reconsidered under the provisions of current law, and those eligible for release may be reunited with their families and loved ones as early as November 2015. “The vote today by the Sentencing Commission is a giant step in the right direction as it makes federal drug sentencing policy and practice fairer for all, helps save the taxpayers millions of dollars annually, and reaffirms the premise that the men and women who have paid their debt to society are worthy of a second chance to redeem their lives and contribute to their communities.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
07.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement about reports that a passenger plane has been shot down in the area near the Ukraine-Russia border: “I am shocked by the downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight 17 and I offer my deep condolences to all those who lost loved ones on board. This much is clear – this airliner was shot down and the evidence seems to show that the plane was shot down by Russian separatists supported by the Russian government. These separatists must immediately leave the crash plane sight and yield this area to an international independent team of investigators. They must cease and desist from soiling, tainting, destroying and taking away vital criminal evidence. It is critical that there be an expedited, full, credible, and unimpeded international investigation as quickly as possible. I urge Russia, the pro-Russian separatists to admit to the facts of this heinous incident and provide all information to the investigators. Additionally there must be an immediate cease-fire and any continued war engagement by the Russian separatist should bring immediate response by Ukraine’s allies. The most important aspect of the investigation should be the respectful recovering of the remains of the loved ones. “The role of international organizations – such as the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) in Ukraine – may be particularly relevant for this effort, and the United States should be in touch with affected nations and our partners in these organizations in the coming days to determine the best path forward. The United States remains prepared to contribute immediate assistance to any international investigation, including through resources provided by the NTSB and the FBI. “Evidence shows that this incident occurred in the context of a crisis in Ukraine that is fueled by Russian support for the separatists, including through arms, materiel, and training. This incident only highlights the urgency with which the United States needs to continue to urge Russia to immediately take concrete steps to de-escalate the situation in Ukraine and to support a sustainable cease-fire and path toward peace that the Ukrainian government has consistently put forward. “An additional note of this tragedy was the loss of infants, women and children and a major nucleus of AIDS researchers headed to the International AIDS Conference. No one knows how much lifesaving information has been lost. Further the huge loss of the citizens of the Netherlands must be devastating and the world acknowledges how deeply sad this is. “Finally, the strongest sanctions must be placed on Russia and President Putin. A cease fire must start right now and the separatist must admit failure and defeat so that the Ukraine government can govern all of Ukraine and the world should stand collectively in condemning this horrible intrusion into the peaceful use of international skies. As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee I will seek congressional hearings on this aviation terrorist act.” ###
07.16.2014	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, released the following statement today after taking to the House floor to remind the world that three months have passed since the kidnapping of more than 200 Nigerian schoolgirls by the terrorist group Boko Haram on April 16, 2014: “It has been three months since over 200 innocent Nigerian schoolgirls were kidnapped by the vile and contemptible terrorist group, Boko Haram, in Chibok. I want those girls and their families to know that we have not forgotten about them. I also want them to know that we will not stop advocating for them until every girl has been safely returned and back in school where they belong. “According to media reports, the leader of Boko Haram has threatened to ransom or sell the girls into the human trafficking market for about twelve dollars each ($12.00 USD). This outrageous conduct cannot be tolerated or overlooked. Not only is it a violation of the girls’ human rights, it is also contrary to United States policy supporting and promoting equal access to educational and economic opportunity for women and girls. “As a mother and a grandmother, I embrace the mothers whose daughters are still missing and I will do everything in my power to make sure that they are returned. These girls have been missing from their families for too long. We must Bring Back Our Girls!” ###
07.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the University of Houston has been awarded $299,479 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for their project entitled “Role of Attractions in Modifying the Confined Flow of Colloids.” “I am delighted to learn that the National Science Foundation is awarding the University of Houston with this generous grant. This grant will enable the University of Houston to expand their research programs and build new programs. These improved programs will entice new students and enhance the learning experience for current undergraduate and graduate students. “I am a strong supporter of the NSF and several of their programs, including the Math and Science Partnership (MSP) –a program that works to improve student achievement in the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields for diverse student populations. I also support the STEM Education Act of 2014 which supports existing NSF programs. “I would like to thank the NSF for recognizing the excellence of the University of Houston. I would also like to personally congratulate Dr. Jacinta Conrad, who is the principal investigator of the “Role of Attractions in Modifying the Confined Flow of Coloids” project. Congratulations, and I wish all the best in your future scientific endeavors.” ###
07.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member on the Border and Maritime Subcommittee, released the following statement on the President’s request for $3.7 billion in emergency funding to address the surge of unaccompanied children crossing our southern border, and for $600 million to fight wildfires: “The scope of the humanitarian need presented by the thousands of unaccompanied children crossing our southern border requires Congressional action. To protect the health and well-being of these vulnerable children, Congress should move immediately to meet the President’s request for emergency funds. This is a migration of children fleeing for their lives. “Politicizing the matter will do nothing to solve the crisis. That is why I have introduced the ‘Justice for Children Now Act of 2014’ which will add an additional 70 Immigration Judges who can be hired IMMEDIATELY to the office of Executive Office of Immigration Review. I have been joined as original co-sponsors by Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Rep. John Conyers, Rep. Bennie Thompson, Rep Ruben Hinojosa and Rep. Filemon Vela. I hope to amend the supplemental request to include these 70 new judges. “I will also be advocating for the cities and states that are asking for additional funds because of this humanitarian crisis. This crisis can be handled with a combination of focusing on the violence in those countries in which these children are fleeing from and with working closely with the families of these children. “I fully support the additional funds for the following: • funding for additional ICE Border Patrol personnel in the Rio Grande Valley; • resources to improve processing facilities in Nogales and McAllen and to establish up to four additional processing facilities; • additional agents for investigative and enforcement activities to disrupt smuggling; • funds for additional immigration judges to expand immigration court capacity and speed up cases; • support for efforts to repatriate and reintegrate migrants to Central America, to help the governments in the region better control their borders, and to address the underlying root causes driving migration; • funding for media campaigns in Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras to emphasize the dangers of the journey and deliver the message that unaccompanied children are not given a permit to stay in the U.S.; • $1.8 billion for HHS to provide appropriate care for unaccompanied children, consistent with Federal law. “The additional funds are essential to ensure the safety, security, and proper care of the children fleeing violence in their home countries. Our border security agencies are doing their best to stretch limited resources. The supplemental appropriation will provide additional border security resources as well as funds to assist with processing immigration cases, while guaranteeing all appropriate due process. Our values as a nation and our basic human compassion for children require this much. “As we address the situation along the border, and the wildfires affecting dozens of communities throughout the west, it is my hope that Congress will act in a serious, speedy and bipartisan manner.” # # #
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Chair of the Texas Democratic House Delegation, released the following statement after Julián Castro was confirmed by the Senate as the next Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: “I join in congratulating Julián Castro on his confirmation today as our next Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. As San Antonio’s mayor, he was very effective in helping to create economic development in San Antonio and helped to create opportunities for additional housing. He will be an excellent addition to President Obama’s administration. He has been a strong advocate for access to affordable housing and efforts to promote home-ownership, and he is a leader who is committed to making sure the American Dream is possible for all those who live and work in our nation’s cities. As Chairwoman of the Texas Democratic congressional delegation, we wish Secretary Castro much success. I am delighted that he had the support of our Texas Democratic delegation along with Senator John Cornyn. “I look forward to working closely with Secretary Castro to address critical issues regarding urban development in Houston, in Texas and around the country and look forward to him helping individuals facing a shortage of rental opportunities. I also look forward to working with Secretary Castro in his efforts to support federal investment in strong neighborhoods where opportunities abound and where residents have what they need to make it in America.” ###
07.10.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the death of Houston Fire Fighter Daniel Groover: “I want to express my condolences to the family of Houston Fire Fighter Daniel Groover who lost his life fighting a fire on Wednesday. The City of Houston stands in solidarity with his family, the members of the Houston Fire Department, and entire Houston community, as we mourn the loss of this remarkable and selfless hero who represented the best of the Houston community and exemplified the qualities of firefighters serving communities throughout the Nation for 21 years. “The mission of the Houston Fire Department is to serve with courage, commitment, and compassion, which were demonstrated through the actions of firefighter Daniel Groover. The Firemen’s Creed states, ‘I have no ambition in this world but one and that is to be a firefighter. But, above all, our proudest endeavor is to save lives of men the work of GOD himself.’ “The bravery, devotion to duty, and love of community of this fallen hero has forever earned him a place in the hearts and memories of the citizens of Houston, Texas, because he willingly risked his life to protect us, and he is a testament to the spirit of public service embodied by firefighters throughout the Nation. “Daniel Groover will be missed by all, but especially by those who knew him best, loved him most, and will remember him simply as husband, a father, colleague and a friend.” ###
07.08.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today announcing that the National Science Foundation has awarded Texas Southern University $199,000 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support ongoing research in the area of “Spatial and Temporal Modeling of Mercury Fate and Dynamics in Tennessee Watersheds:” “I am delighted to announce that the National Science Foundation has selected Texas Southern University to receive this generous grant, which will enable TSU scholars to expand their research programs, build new programs, and enhance the learning experience for current undergraduate and graduate students. Research Initiation Awards provide support for Historically Black Colleges and Universities seeking establish new research programs or redirect and rebuild existing research programs. “As a strong supporter of NSF’s Math and Science Partnership (MSP), a program that works to improve student achievement in the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields for diverse student populations, I am especially pleased that this grant was won by a Historically Black University and will bring us a step closer in our efforts to close the achievement gaps in science and mathematics. “I congratulate Dr. Maruthi Sridhar Balaji Bhaskar, who is the principal investigator of the “Spatial and Temporal Modeling of Mercury Fate and Dynamics in Tennessee Watersheds” project. I also thank NSF for recognizing the excellence of Texas Southern University and I am proud to have strongly advocated and supported the program that provides the funding that made this grant possible.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
06.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, marked the one-year anniversary of the United States Senate passing bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform (CIR) by calling on House Republicans to stop blocking the legislation from coming up for a vote: “Today I am calling on Speaker Boehner, Leader McCarthy, and House Republicans to bring to the floor for a vote H.R. 15 – legislation that would help secure our border, protect our workers, unite our families, provide an earned pathway to citizenship, and create jobs. “Three months ago today, I signed onto the House Democrats’ ‘Demand A Vote’ petition to bring up H.R. 15, bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform for a vote, and today, we will mark the one-year anniversary since our United States Senate overwhelmingly passed comprehensive immigration reform by a 68-32 vote. These 365 days, however, have been nothing but cherry-picking excuses and inaction from House Republicans as they have time and again failed to address our broken system with commonsense solutions. “Instead, Republicans have four times voted on the House floor on anti-immigrant legislation, including Republican Congressman Steve King’s repugnant and deplorable measures, which place the lives of aspiring Americans, our nation’s DREAMers, in peril and back into the shadows of fear. It is time for Speaker Boehner to stop blocking this sensible bipartisan reform, and allow a vote to create jobs, empower small business, fuel innovation, raise wages, reduce the deficit by nearly $1 trillion, and energize our economy. It is time for us to fix our broken immigration system, and build a system that respects our history and our values as a nation. “H.R. 15 has 200 co-sponsors, including 3 Republicans. Yet Republican leadership continues to prevent the House from holding a vote on this necessary and popular legislation. Comprehensive immigration reform has enjoyed widespread support from law enforcement, faith leaders, agriculture groups, veteran groups, Nobel Laureates, the business community and the American people across party lines. On March 26, House Democrats filed a “Demand A Vote” petition, which has garnered 192 signatures, calling on Speaker Boehner to act, but he continues to remain the obstacle to getting a bill done this year. “By blocking immigration reform, Speaker Boehner and House Republicans are single-handedly holding back our economy and refusing to build upon the Senate’s progress. Rather than catering to the most extreme, anti-immigrant wing of their Conference, House Republicans should listen to the outpouring majority of Americans and give the public a vote.” ###
06.26.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee and Founder and Co-Chair of the House Children’s Caucus, released the following statement after introducing the ‘Justice for Children Now Act of 2014’: “Regardless of root causes of the current situation with unaccompanied children coming across our borders, there is a humanitarian crisis occurring along the southern border and addressing it with real solutions must be our first priority. Politicizing the matter will do nothing to solve the crisis. That is why I have introduced the ‘Justice for Children Now Act of 2014’ which will add an additional 70 Immigration Judges who can be hired IMMEDIATEDLY to the office of Executive Office of Immigration Review. I have been joined as original co-sponsors by Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Rep. John Conyers, Rep. Bennie Thompson, Rep Ruben Hinojosa and Rep. Filemon Vela. “Policy toward unaccompanied children is generally unchanged from recent administrations. In fact, it was President George W. Bush who signed the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (TVPRA; P.L. 110-457), which provides many of the protections provided to unaccompanied children under current law. “Any misconception that the Obama Administration’s policy on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) or Senate-passed comprehensive immigration reform legislation applies to arriving unaccompanied children is just that – a misconception. The Administration is currently expanding its efforts to increase public awareness in Mexico and Central America about the fact that unaccompanied children are not eligible for such immigration benefits or for legal status in the U.S. Democrats support these public awareness efforts. “Looking out to the long-term, we need to do more to turn the tide on this crisis by, among other things, fostering greater stability among our neighbors and dissuading families from taking such action. We must also establish: 1. more processing centers that are also more humane. 2. we must also engage groups such as the Children’s Defense Fund, First Focus, the Center for Missing and Exploited Children and Houston Based Children at Risk. 3. we also need to enhance the legal resources for these children increase the number of immigration judges (which The Justice for Children Now Act of 2014 does). “Unaccompanied children are not evading the Border Patrol. To the contrary, these children are overwhelmingly apprehended immediately upon crossing into the U.S., contradicting the notion that the increased flow of unaccompanied children means our borders are somehow broken or porous. While the influx of unaccompanied children has challenged Border Patrol’s capacity to respond, its agents have risen to that challenge. In fact, the agency’s effectiveness rate has actually improved due to additional personnel and resources being directed to the border in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas. “Violence and poor economic conditions in the children’s home countries are a primary cause for the increase in unaccompanied children crossing the border. The three countries with the highest number of unaccompanied children apprehended in the U.S. – Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala – also have among the highest murder rates in the world. We must send aid to these countries to confront some of their problems there to prevent these unaccompanied children from crossing our borders. Earlier this year, a United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees survey of children from Mexico and Central America who arrived in the United States illegally found that no less than 58 percent of the children interviewed were displaced by violence. “In the absence of immigration reform that would allow for orderly, lawful migration, some families are acting on a normal desire to be reunited with relatives living in the U.S. There are individuals lawfully present in the U.S. but have no legal means to petition for their family members under the existing system. This is why we need to pass Comprehensive Immigration Reform now and pass the ‘Justice for Children Now Act of 2014’ is an important bill. I fully support the Federal response to the ongoing crisis and this Bill I have introduced is a step forward in identifying ways to curb the flow of unaccompanied children to the U.S., including increasing awareness about the very serious dangers of the journey.” ###
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding today’s full Committee hearing on “Dangerous Passage: The Growing Problem of Unaccompanied Children Crossing the Border”: “On a daily basis, waves of children ranging from toddlers to teenagers are fleeing violence, oppression, and economic desperation from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador – many of them sent by their families. They are simply looking for a safe-haven. As an intense and significant humanitarian crisis develops, we are finding its origins to be as complex as its implications. “It is irresponsible to attribute this crisis to one U.S. policy, or for that matter one U.S. President. Let it be known that this crisis is not just an immigration matter nor is it just a foreign policy matter. This crisis is not exclusive to the United States. Much of the Western Hemisphere is seeing this crisis. According to the United Nations, these children are streaming into Mexico, Panama, Nicaragua, and Belize as well as Canada and the United States. “From our perspective, we seem to be barraged, on almost a daily basis, by troubling images of vulnerable children, many still clutching their meager belongings, crossing the border into the United States and being immediately apprehended by Border Patrol Officers. This fiscal year alone, Border Patrol Officers have apprehended and detained over 50,000 unaccompanied children at the southwestern border. “The number of kids arriving at our border without their parents seems to grow by the day. The influx of these kids has certainly strained Border Patrol resources, but the men and women of the Border Patrol have risen to the challenge. In 2008, then-President George Bush signed the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act. The law recognizes that special care is demanded when dealing with the young and vulnerable. Under those laws, the Border Patrol is required to take unaccompanied children who are not from Mexico into custody, screen them, and transfer them to the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee Resettlement. “For those out there that are looking for simple answers and to lay blame with on President Obama’s policy on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or even the Senate passed comprehensive immigration reform legislation, I would note that neither would apply to these kids. Hence, the assertion that the recent surge in unaccompanied children is due to lax immigration enforcement does not pass the smell test. “Looking out to the long-term, we need to do more to turn the tide on this crisis by, among other things, fostering greater stability among our neighbors and dissuading families from taking such action. We must also establish: more processing centers that are also more humane. we must also engage groups such as the Children’s Defense Fund, First Focus, the Center for Missing and Exploited Children and Houston Based Children at Risk. we also need to increase the number of immigration judges. “These children are not running from authority but towards authority. Dehumanizing and labeling these kids and their parents will not yield a solution. Labeling this as an ‘Administration failure’ will not address what is actually going on in El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala that would cause a parent to hand over their son or daughter to a smuggler or to send that child on a perilous trek through Central America and Mexico to the United States.” ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after attending the Congressional Gold Medal ceremony that honored Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King and marked the 50th anniversary of the 1964 Civil Rights Act: “I was proud to stand with other Congressional leaders today as the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King were posthumously awarded the Congressional Gold Medal, America’s highest civilian honor. As a former employee of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) I was proud to witness the King family receive this honor. It just made it all important on why we should House should pass H.R.3899 - Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014. Now is the time to stand up and be heard. Anyone who believes in the fundamental right to vote for all Americans must support efforts to advance this bill and join the conversation about how to protect voters from the real threats they are facing right now. Inaction is not an option. Silence is not an option. Every day that Congress fails to live up to its constitutional obligation to protect every American’s right to vote gives a free pass to those who would deny that right. The choice is clear. Those who believe in the right to vote for all and who believe that discrimination in voting is wrong will stand up and support efforts to move the Voting Rights Amendment Act forward. Those who remain silent can no longer say they support the equal right to vote for all Americans. “Few have had as great and positive an impact on the course of our nation’s history as Dr. and Mrs. King, who dedicated their lives to fighting not only for an end to discrimination and oppression but to ensure that such an end would reflect not the bitterness of the past but the optimism of a brighter and more tolerant future. Their embrace of non-violence continues to inspire agents of change throughout our country and the world, and I will never forget being deeply moved personally by Dr. King’s words and actions when I was a young man in the 1960’s. “It is fitting that this recognition coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the historic Civil Rights Act, which Dr. and Mrs. King worked so hard to see passed. I hope all Americans are inspired today to carry forward the Kings’ message of justice, equality, tolerance, faith, and courage in their own lives. And I hope that the young people of America will use this opportunity to learn more about the rich history of the Civil Rights Movement and be inspired to change our country and the world for the better.” ###
06.25.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee and the House Judiciary Committee and Co-Chair of the House Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement regarding the current situation of the more than 200 schoolgirls kidnapped from the Chibok Girls Secondary School in Chibok, in Nigeria: “Just recently it has been reported that militants with Boko Haram are suspected of having abducted dozens more girls and women in northeastern Nigeria reviving concerns about hundreds of schoolgirls who were kidnapped in the same region in April and have yet to be rescued. It is being reported that 60 girls and women, and possibly more than 30 boys, had been seized in the village of Kummabza, about 100 miles from Maiduguri, the capital of Borno State. Enough is enough! This must stop now! “I also continue to be extremely concerned by the abduction last month of some 200 girls who were taken from their school hostel in Chibok, Borno State, in Nigeria. My heart goes out to their families, and I am praying that they will soon be reunited with their children. I have asked President Obama and Secretary John Kerry to exercise every means available to assist in the safe and speedy recovery of the missing girls, including enlisting the aid of the African Union. The world must come to the aid of these girls now also. "As a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee I know that children's rights are human rights, and these types of attacks, specifically targeting of schools, are strictly prohibited under international law and cannot be justified under any circumstances. It is now time to bring in negotiators to bring these kidnapped children home now. Schools are places of refuge and safety, where children should be allowed to learn and grow without fearing harm coming to them. Girls and young women around the world absolutely must be allowed to go to school peacefully and free from intimidation, persecution and all other forms of discrimination. The Nigerian government and military must stop being apprehensive when these girls and now boys and the precious lives of other villagers in the area are at stake. I want the Nigerian government to act now! They must engage in intense and continuous negotiations to bring these girls and boys back. “Boko Haram, a militant group designated by the State Department in November 2013 as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, has been conducting a reign of terror against innocent Nigerian women, children, and men since 2009, when it killed hundreds of persons during a raid of a police station in Maiduguri. In the last four years, Boko Haram has carried out more than 480 violent attacks against a broad array of targets: Christian and Muslim communities, government installations, schools, hospitals and medical facilities, aid workers, and journalists. Since the beginning of 2013, more than 4,400 innocent persons have been killed and thousands more left homeless. Boko Haram has been on the map for a long time and I look forward to holding hearings in the House Homeland Security Committee to reinforce the threat Boko Haram has to Africa, the United States and the world. “I am calling on the Nigerian government to establish a Victim’s Fund to provide humanitarian relief and economic assistance to the victims of attacks by Boko Haram so that they can rebuild their lives and communities. I call on Boko Haram who is responsible for abducting or continuing to hold these girls to release them immediately and unharmed. They must ensure these young women return home safely, where they rightfully belong. The world is looking at Nigeria and they need to respond NOW!!!!!!” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement, after attending the White House Summit on Working Families here in Washington, DC this week: “During my time here in Congress I have been a champion for improving the lives of women and children. I have worked to increase the 77 cents that women make for every dollar earned by a man (original co-sponsor of the Lillie Ledbetter Act) to ensuring that women have access to affordable health care, to increasing seats available in the Head Start program which funds local organization like the AVANCE program in Houston, to Founding and Co-Chairing the Congressional Children’s Caucus. I have always made women and their families a top priority. “I recently hosted a Conference entitled ‘When Women Succeed, America Succeeds,’ in Houston where over 800 women attended to hear about an economic agenda for women and families that addressed issues such as: pay equality, work and life balance (wellness), and childcare policies. The event was an overwhelming success. I then joined a successful bus tour that kicked off in Seneca Falls, New York -- the site of the nation's first women's rights convention in 1848 -- and ended in Chicago. I along with Leader Pelosi and other Democratic members of Congress traveled to seven cities to meet local women and talk to them about our comprehensive women's economic agenda, ‘When Women Succeed, America Succeeds.’ The agenda includes legislative proposals like guaranteed paid family and sick leave, equal pay legislation, a higher minimum wage, more broadly affordable child care and stronger workplace protections for pregnant women. “Our children are the future of America and it is my job as a Member of Congress to improve the health and well-being of every child. I strongly believe that our children should be the number one priority in federal policy and budget decisions. The influence that we have in our children is great and I refuse to wait until it is too late. As long as I am a Member of Congress, it is my goal to work with my colleagues and constituents to create the future our children deserve. I will continue to introduce and co-sponsor legislation that put our children in the forefront, so that they are enriched, empowered and educated citizens. “This week I attended the White House Summit on Working Families. At this Summit the President announced a new executive measures ensuring that more women can have fairness and flexibility between work and family. Now Federal agencies have been directed to implement existing efforts to expand flexible workplace policies for their workers to the maximum possible extent. Also, the Department of Labor will invest $25 million in expanding access to affordable child care for individuals participating in job training programs. It is up to Congress to finish the job and unleash the full potential of America’s women. It is time to pass House Democrats’ economic agenda for women and families, ‘When Women Succeed, America Succeeds,’ and empower our nation’s women with fairness in their paycheck, through equal pay and a higher minimum wage. Congress must also promote security in the workplace, through paid family and sick leave and support in the home, through affordable child care. “It is time for Republicans to set aside their endless distraction and obstruction and come together with Democrats to do the right thing for America’s women and working families. Together, let us expand opportunities for all America’s women, strengthen the middle class, and reignite the American dream. Enough is enough. Republicans need to set aside their internal dysfunction and obstruction, and bring this newfound work ethic to addressing the priorities of the American people. It is time for Republicans to come together with Democrats to create jobs, raise new ladders of opportunity, and build an economy that works for everyone – not just the wealthy few.” ###
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the importance of revising, renewing and strengthening the Voting Rights Act: “Today marks the first anniversary of the Supreme Court’s destructive and naïve decision to invalidate section four of the Voting Rights Act – the landmark law that protects the most fundamental right in our democracy: the right to vote. “It is our responsibility to do everything in our power to remove obstacles to voting, to ensure every citizen has the right to vote and every vote is counted as cast. In too many places across the country, we have seen efforts to deny Americans their right to be heard at the ballot box. We cannot tolerate voting discrimination, in any form, anywhere. We need a VRA for today. It is time for Congress to come together and revise, renew and strengthen the Voting Rights Act. The Senate is moving forward, but the House refuses to act. “There is no right more fundamental to our democracy than the right to vote. That right is in serious danger. Right now, in 2014, states and localities around the country are making changes to elections that would take away the right to vote for some people based solely on the color of their skin or the language they speak. This cannot be tolerated in the 21st century—but solving the problem requires a modern approach to protecting voting rights. “The bipartisan Voting Rights Amendment Act was introduced in the House of Representatives on January 16, 2014 to provide needed protections. While the Senate is moving forward, the House has yet to act. The Voting Rights Amendment Act offers nationwide protections for these current threats, with new tools to get ahead of voting discrimination before it occurs and to ensure that proposed election changes are transparent and areas that currently discriminate are held accountable. Now is the time to stand up and be heard. Anyone who believes in the fundamental right to vote for all Americans must support efforts to advance this bill and join the conversation about how to protect voters from the real threats they are facing right now. “Inaction is not an option. Silence is not an option. Every day that Congress fails to live up to its constitutional obligation to protect every American’s right to vote gives a free pass to those who would deny that right. We believe in progress. We believe that our nation has taken great strides since the dark days 50 years ago when attempting to vote could be dangerous and even life threatening for people of color. But voting discrimination still exists and minority voices are still silenced. “Protecting the right to vote for all has always been a bipartisan issue. That’s because the right to vote is one of the most basic rights in our country. Yet Speaker John Boehner, House Judiciary Committee Chair Bob Goodlatte, and House Republican leadership refuse to even hold a hearing to discuss this most important issue for our democracy. On June 25 – one year since the Supreme Court weakened the historic Voting Rights Act – the Senate held a hearing on this vital issue. Now the Senate must move quickly to pass this bill and the House must follow suit. “The choice is clear. Those who believe in the right to vote for all and who believe that discrimination in voting is wrong will stand up and support efforts to move the Voting Rights Amendment Act forward. Those who remain silent can no longer say they support the equal right to vote for all Americans.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
06.18.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement in observance of Juneteenth: “On June 19, 1865, General Gordon Granger rode into Galveston, Texas and announced the freedom of the last American slaves; belatedly freeing 250,000 slaves in Texas nearly two and a half years after Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. The day coined Juneteenth was first celebrated in the Texas state capital in 1867 under the direction of the Freedmen’s Bureau. Today, Juneteenth remains the oldest known celebration of slavery’s demise. It commemorates freedom while acknowledging the sacrifices and contributions made by courageous African Americans towards making our great nation the more conscious and accepting country that it has become. “Last year, I introduced H. Res 268 – a Resolution observing the historical significance of Juneteenth Independence Day. As we celebrate the anniversary of Juneteenth, I ask that all of my colleagues join me in reflecting upon its significance. Because it was only after that day in 1865 when General Granger rode into Galveston, Texas, on the heels of the most devastating conflict in our country’s history, in the aftermath of a civil war that pitted brother against brother, neighbor against neighbor and threatened to tear the fabric of our union apart forever that America truly became the land of the free and the home of the brave. “Not until 1979 when my friend State Representative Al Edwards introduced the bill did Juneteenth become a Texas state holiday. It was first celebrated as such in 1980. Civil rights pioneer Martin Luther King Jr. once said, ‘Freedom is never free’, and African American labor leader A. Phillip Randolph often said ‘Freedom is never given. It is won.’ We should all recognize the power and the ironic truth of those statements and we should pause to remember the enormous price paid by all Americans in our country’s quest to realize its promise. Juneteenth honors the end of the 400 years of suffering African Americans endured under slavery and celebrates the legacy of perseverance that has become the hallmark of the African American community and its struggle for equality. “Throughout the 1980's and 90's Juneteenth has continued to enjoy a growing and healthy interest from communities and organizations throughout the country. Institutions such as the Smithsonian, the Henry Ford Museum and others have begun sponsoring Juneteenth-centered activities. In recent years, a number of National Juneteenth Organizations have arisen to take their place alongside older organizations - all with the mission to promote and cultivate knowledge and appreciation of African American history and culture. “Juneteenth today, celebrates African American freedom while encouraging self-development and respect for all cultures. As it takes on a more national and even global perspective, the events of 1865 in Texas are not forgotten, for all of the roots tie back to this fertile soil from which a national day of pride is growing. The future of Juneteenth looks bright as the number of cities and states come on board and form local committees and organizations to coordinate the activities.” ###
06.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Co-Chair of the House Pakistani Caucus, released the following statement regarding the recent attack at the Karachi's Jinnah International Airport: “Recently heavily armed militants launched an assault on Pakistan's busiest Karachi airport leaving at least 24 dead. The Pakistani Taliban has claimed responsibility for an assault on the airport and are continuing their attempt to undermine the current Pakistani government. “Pakistan is a critical ally of the United States. For too long violence like we have recently seen at its largest airport has been defining that region. It is time for democracy to be given a chance in this important region of the world. “As Co-Chair of the House Pakistani Caucus, I continue to support Pakistan but the status quo is not working. Those who do not want to see Pakistan become a place where children can go to school without violence and where the residents of that country can live without fear of retribution for supporting a democratic way of life must be dealt with swiftly. The people who are fighting for democracy in Pakistan must not give up the fight. I would hope that the officials of the Pakistani government will continue to work to build a bridge that forges a country that will continue to be focused on public diplomacy, positive engagement and democracy.” ###
06.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Oxfam America, an esteemed international relief and development organization, released a study showing the real benefits that raising the minimum wage from $7.25 to $10.10 an hour would have for workers in states and congressional districts across the country. According to the report, ‘Working Poor in America,’ raising the minimum wage would give 2,191,000 Texans – including 63,000 in the 18th Congressional District – a well-deserved and overdue raise. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “In America, the land of opportunity, no one who works full time should have to raise their family in poverty. That is why I will continue to fight to raise the national minimum wage, which would give 2,191,000 hard-working Texans, including 33,000 working women, in the 18th Congressional District a pay raise and bring more money into our local economy. “Earlier this year I joined 194 of my colleagues in signing a discharge petition, led by Rep. Tim Bishop (D-NY), to force a vote on the Fair Minimum Wage Act (H.R. 1010), championed by Rep. George Miller (D-CA). The bill increases the minimum wage over three years from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour, indexes future annual increases to inflation, and gradually increases the tipped minimum wage to 70 percent of the national minimum wage. “Raising the minimum wage to $10.10 would give at least 25 million hard-working Americans – including six million working moms – a raise, lift as many as six million people out of poverty, and infuse more than $32 billion into our national economy. “A strong majority of Americans, 65 percent to be exact, support raising the minimum wage. Businesses like Gap and Costco have already embraced paying a higher minimum wage because it strengthens their bottom line, yielding more productive employees, less turnover, and more customers who have more money to spend. More than 600 economists, including seven Nobel Prize winners, have also endorsed an increase in the minimum wage. However, Republicans in Congress have repeatedly blocked efforts to bring a minimum wage increase to a vote. “The American people are calling for an economy that works for everyone – where a hard day’s work earns a decent day’s pay and everyone has the opportunity to build a brighter future. Congressional Republicans must heed their voices and allow a vote on this proposal to value work and give Americans a raise.” ###
06.10.2014	Washington, DC – Today Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee announced that 318,476 borrowers in Texas will benefit from the executive action President Obama took yesterday to give up to five million additional borrowers the ability to cap their student loan payments at 10 percent of their monthly income, according to a report released today by the Domestic Policy Council and the Council of Economic Advisers. The President’s executive action opened this repayment option to millions of borrowers who were previously ineligible, including many borrowers with older loans. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “Under the President’s action, for example, a teacher earning about $39,000, with student debt of $26,500 would be able to reduce her payments by more than $1,500 a year, compared to the standard repayment plan. The crushing burden of student loan debt is hurting our economy and holding back a generation of young Americans. This action by the President will help make student debt more manageable for millions of borrowers, including young graduates seeking to start a family, buy a home, start a business, or save for retirement. “In addition to the President’s action, more must be done. In Texas 1,828,000 borrowers would benefit by being able to refinance their student loans at lower interest rates if Congress passes the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act (S. 2432; H.R. 4582), according to today’s report by the Domestic Policy Council and Council of Economic Advisers. The Senate is scheduled to hold a cloture vote on the bill (S. 2432) on Wednesday, June 11. “The Department of Education estimates that, if passed, 25 million borrowers would take advantage of the student refinancing legislation and refinance their existing student loans to lower interest rates, similar to those that are currently available to new student loan borrowers. Under the bill, a typical participating borrower would save $2,000 over the life of his or her loan. “College graduates across the country are putting their dreams on hold as they struggle to pay off their student loans. I applaud the action the President took yesterday, but more is needed. I call upon both the House and Senate to pass the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act immediately. Current law prevents millions of hard-working, responsible borrowers from refinancing their student loans at today’s low rates, the way that people can refinance their home and auto loans. This critical legislation is simply fair – it finally gives borrowers with existing student loans the same option to refinance that millions of other borrowers already have.” ###
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today as the number of Americans who have lost access to emergency unemployment insurance reached 3 million this week: “With 3 million Americans now cut off from the emergency unemployment insurance that ought to be there to help them make ends meet while they continue to look for jobs, Congress must act – and act now. Republican obstruction has blocked a restoration of this emergency insurance since December, and those who have been struggling to find work the longest are bearing the heaviest cost of Congress’s inaction. “Congress ought to be working tirelessly to restore this emergency support for the long-term unemployed while moving forward with legislation, such as Make It In America bills, that will make it easier for them to find the jobs they seek. The Senate acted in a bipartisan way to restore emergency unemployment insurance in April, and I urge House Republicans to work with Democrats to do the same in the House without delay, or else an additional 72,000 Americans who have been desperately seeking jobs will, on average, continue to lose access to this insurance every week. We must not let that happen.” ###
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today on the 51st anniversary of the Equal Pay Act being signed into law: “Fifty-one years ago today, President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act, landmark legislation that made it illegal for employers to pay women less than men for the same work. At the time, women earned only $0.60 to the dollar of a man’s salary, yet today the pay gap has only narrowed to $0.77 to the dollar. With millions of families relying on women’s incomes to make ends meet – and with women serving as primary breadwinners for more households than ever before – closing this gap has never been more important. “That’s why House Democrats have made equal pay a priority, passing the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act in 2009 and now pushing for Congress to enact the Paycheck Fairness Act, which I am proud to cosponsor. As we mark this anniversary, I urge House Republicans to partner with Democrats to do the right thing and take steps to close the pay gap once and for all.” ###
05.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki announced that he would step down from his post: “Secretary Eric Shinseki is a leader, a hero, and a public servant of great valor and great sacrifice. He has served our nation in uniform as an officer, a General, and Army Chief of Staff. He has served our men and women in uniform, and their families, as head of the Department of Veterans Affairs. He has dedicated his life and career to the security of our country and the well-being of our troops and veterans. “Today, Secretary Shinseki took responsibility for problems at the VA and misconduct found at VHA facilities. He apologized to his fellow veterans and to the American people, and earlier today offered his resignation, which the President accepted. Secretary Shinseki served his country with honor for nearly 50 years. He did two tours of combat in Vietnam, rose to command the First Cavalry Division, and served as Army Chief of Staff. As Secretary at the VA, he has presided over record investments in our veterans, helped reduce veteran homelessness, and helped more than one million veterans, service members, and their families pursue their education under the Post-9/11 GI Bill. “Secretary Shinseki’s commitment to our veterans is unquestioned. But as the Secretary said himself, the VA needs new leadership to address the problems in the agency and better serve our nation’s veterans. The departure of Secretary Shinseki will not solve the systemic challenges within the VA and its medical facilities. It is up to all of us – in Congress and in the Administration – to review the facts, fix the problems, and improve our efforts to ensure veterans receive the care they need, when they need it. “At a time when our newest veterans are coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan, the President is committed to making progress on the most important issues affecting our veterans including healthcare and disability benefits, education, jobs, and issues specific to women veterans. But we have much more work to do. We must always uphold our solemn pledge: that just as the military leaves no soldier behind on the battlefield, we will leave no veteran behind when they come home. Secretary Shinseki kept that promise on the battlefield and at home.” # # #
05.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives unanimously approved her amendment to the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (H.R. 4660) affirming the authority of the Attorney General to reduce prison overcrowding by developing and implementing lawful policies relating to requests for executive clemency from deserving petitioners: “Much of the overcrowding of our federal prison system is the direct and proximate result of the proliferation of offenses carrying mandatory-minimums and the unjust and discriminatory 100 to 1 disparity between crack and powder cocaine sentences in federal law. “I am gratified that today, by an overwhelming margin, the House adopted my amendment to the Justice Department spending bill which will help alleviate prison overcrowding by preserving the ability of the Attorney General to expand the use of executive clemency for deserving incarcerated petitioners so long as he does so in a manner consistent with law and the Constitution. “The United States incarcerates nearly 25 percent of the world’s inmates, even though it only has 5 percent of the world’s population. Thirty years ago, there were less than 30,000 inmates in the federal system; today, there are nearly 216,000, an increase of 800 percent! “African Americans and Hispanics comprise more than 6 in 10 federal inmates incarcerated for drug offenses. And African American offenders receive sentences that are 10 percent longer than white offenders for the same crimes and are 21 percent more likely to receive mandatory-minimum sentences than white defendants according to the U.S. Sentencing Commission. “There is no shortage of stories about the damage done to the lives of thousands of individuals and their families by the draconian sentencing laws passed by Congress and state legislatures beginning in the late 1980s in the ‘War on Drugs.’ An unfortunate example is Clarence Aaron, of Mobile, Alabama who was convicted in 1992 of conspiring to process 20 kilograms of powder cocaine and distribute it as crack cocaine. He was sentenced to life in prison even though it was his first offense. “Fortunately, in 2010, after years of working to reform our drug sentencing laws, our efforts finally bore fruit when the Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the “Fair Sentencing Act of 2010” (P.L. 111-220), which finally ended the discriminatory 100:1 sentencing ratio. “Since the provisions of the “Fair Sentencing Act” are not retroactive there is still much work left to be done. Fortunately, Clarence Aaron will not be one of those who still must wait because after serving more than 20 years in federal prison, he was freed on April 17 because he was one of eight persons granted executive clemency, or a reduction in sentence, by President Obama on December 19, 2013. That was a welcome to development. “So too is the announcement by the Department of Justice of a new “Smart on Crime” initiative to give expanded and expedited review to clemency petitions from deserving federal inmates. “Executive clemency is not amnesty. These inmates have been incarcerated for many years. Applications for executive clemency that are most likely to receive favorable consideration are those submitted by non-violent, low-level drug offenders who were not leaders of, or had any significant ties to, large-scale organizations, gangs, or cartels. “The authority to grant clemency is among the powers vested exclusively to, and committed to the sound discretion of, the President by the Pardon Clause (Art. II, § 2, Clause 1) of the U.S. Constitution. In exercising these constitutional powers, the President typically relies upon the counsel and recommendations of the Attorney General. “The Jackson Lee Amendment ensures that Attorney General retains the latitude to develop and implement policies relating to requests for executive clemency for deserving petitioners, which will help reduce prison overcrowding and save the taxpayers millions of dollars. “It is extremely gratifying that these objectives enjoyed the overwhelming and bipartisan support of my colleagues in the House.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
05.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee and the House Judiciary Committee and Co-Chair of the House Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement after her amendment, which would help fill an information gap dealing with human trafficking by providing the informational resources to local law enforcement who will be able in turn to share that information with the victims was, unanimously approved and accepted by the House of Representatives today: “Let me first offer my appreciation and thanks to Ranking Member Chaka Fattah and to Chairman Frank Wolf for their work on this legislation and decades long commitment and advocacy on behalf of victims of crime, especially child victims, who are the most vulnerable and innocent victims. I appreciate them accepting my amendment to this bill. “Trafficking in humans, and especially domestic child trafficking, has no place in a civilized society. Those who engage in this illicit trade should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. That means we need to ensure that state and local law enforcement agencies have the tools, resources, and training necessary to identify, apprehend, and prosecute criminals who ruthless traffic in children and young persons. One of the most effective resources in bringing criminals to justice is the cooperation and assistance of their victims. “Perpetrators of crime know that they are more likely to evade detection and punishment when their victims refuse to assist or cooperate with law enforcement. That is why they make it a point to instill fear in their victims – for their own safety or that of family and loved ones. My amendment, which was accepted on the House Floor today as a part of H.R. 4660 – the Commerce Justice and Science Appropriations Act of 2015, strengthens and complements the bill by providing another tool in law enforcement’s arsenal to tip the balance in favor of victims. “My amendment simply will help ensure that the U.S. Attorney General will provide training for State and local law enforcement agencies on the immigration law that may be useful for the investigation and prosecution of crimes related to trafficking in persons, including education on the availability of certain nonimmigrant visas for victims of trafficking who cooperate in the investigation or prosecution of the crime of which the individual was a victim. “In 2007, Congress passed the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (VTVPA), which created the T-Visa, and reserved it for those who are or have been victims of human trafficking. The Nonimmigrant Status (“T-Visa”) protects victims of human trafficking and helps law enforcement by allowing victims to remain in the United States to assist in the investigation or prosecution of human traffickers. “Unfortunately, many victims of crime and victims of human trafficking are unaware of the existence and availability of this temporary relief. And that is in part because many local and state law enforcement officers are not fully aware of the legal requirements governing this relief. My amendment is intended to help fill this information gap by providing the informational resources to local law enforcement who will be able in turn to share that information with the victims. “On March 20, the Homeland Security Committee, of which I am a Senior Member, held a field hearing in my home city of Houston on entitled ‘Combating Human Trafficking in Our Major Cities.’ It was a fitting venue because, regrettably, Houston is the human trafficking capital of the United States. At that field hearing, me and my Texas colleagues heard testimony from federal law officials about how just the day before, on March 19, they had discovered and rescued 115 people from a packed, rancid stash house on Almeda School Road in south Harris County. Ninety-nine were men, 16 were women, one of whom was pregnant and 19 were juveniles. All of them had been kidnapped or smuggled into the United States. “Who knows what those women and children may have faced had they not been rescued and the perpetrators caught? By helping them, we will catch more human trafficking criminals. And we help rescue and save children from becoming victims.” Special Note: After the conclusion of her remarks Chairman Wolf said that Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee made a compelling case for the amendment and that is why he accepted and Ranking Member Fattah later stated that the Congresswoman’s words on her amendment were both powerful and moving and that the amendment should be accepted. ###
05.29.2014	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Co-chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Justice Reform Working Group and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent shooting in Santa Barbara, California this past weekend and the need to pass legislation NOW to prevent gun violence: “Our thoughts and prayers today remain with the parents and loved ones of the victims of the Santa Barbara shooting, with the wounded still fighting to recover, with the students and the entire campus community. Such violence has no place in our society, and this horrific tragedy is simply the latest reminder that action is needed, and needed now, to prevent gun violence. “Today, the House has the opportunity to meet our charge to protect and defend the American people. I call on my colleagues to vote for the an amendment today on the House floor that would invest an additional $19.5 million to help states improve submissions to the national background check system. “One amendment will not address all of our challenges, but it represents a strong step forward – and we must do more by enacting the King-Thompson legislation to strengthen the Brady background checks, currently with 189 Members on the bill. We must also pass legislation that strengthens mental health intervention and research, and keep guns away from those who shouldn’t have them. We must also make much-needed investments in the mental health system. “As more details emerge about the Santa Barbara shooter, it is clear that we must keep guns away from those most at-risk of hurting themselves and others. The families of Santa Barbara, like the families of Newtown, Tucson, Aurora, Columbine, and the streets of our cities every day, deserve a vote. After 3 ½ years, House Republicans have next to nothing to show for their time in the majority, aside from failed leadership, debilitating dysfunction, and a culture of crisis. “Republicans’ reckless policies resulted in a first-ever downgrade in our credit rating and brought us the 16-day Republican Government Shutdown. The Do-Nothing Republican 113th Congress is setting a new low of obstruction and contempt for the priorities of the American people – refusing to create jobs, refusing to renew emergency unemployment insurance, refusing to raise the minimum wage, and refusing to address comprehensive immigration reform. “The Ryan Republican budget reveals the full extent of House Republicans’ disregard for working Americans. The GOP Budget would end the Medicare guarantee, increase prescription drug costs by an average of nearly $1,200 per year, and make traditional Medicare premiums soar by 50 percent. Republicans would raise taxes on middle class families with children by $2,000, but give millionaires a $200,000 tax break. The Ryan Republican road to recession would cost 1.1 million jobs in 2015, rising to 3 million the next year. “It is time for Republicans to abandon their hollow and toxic partisan agenda, and work with Democrats to create jobs and build an economy that works for everyone – not just the wealthy.” ###
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, announced today that she will pair up with Steven Joshua Shaw from Houston, Texas for the third annual "Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day" on Wednesday, May 29th. They will be joining nearly 70 foster youth and alumni from across the country who are traveling to Washington, DC to shadow members of Congress to get a behind-the-scenes look at the inner workings of the House of Representatives. “I am pleased to be joined Steven Joshua Shaw today here in Washington, DC. He has a full day of activities scheduled for today. He will be attending two important Hearings today, one in the House Judiciary Committee and one in the House Homeland Security Committee. He will also be shadowing me during my various other meetings while on Capitol Hill today. "I look forward to welcoming Steven as a part National Foster Care Month. These young people remind us that foster youth far too often experience traumatic incidences of abuse and neglect and are separated from their homes and siblings. Yet, even in the face of these challenges, the resiliency of foster youth remains strong. “In addition to these activities, Steven will attend a Ways and Means subcommittee where psychologist, television personality and author Dr. Phil will testify about ensuring that foster youth receive proper health care, and they will join cast members from the ABC Family television show ‘The Fosters’ in educating members of Congress about the importance of investing in the foster care system. Also, Steven will attend briefings at the White House to talk to administration officials about his experiences of living in the foster care system. “The foster youth will be joined during their visit to Capitol Hill by staff from the Casey Family Programs, FosterClub, the National Foster Care Institute and FosterMore. I am pleased to have Steven join me today on Capitol Hill and look forward to working with him in the future.” ###
05.29.2014	May 23, 2014 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today in response to President Obama’s remarks on an ongoing investigation into allegations at the Veterans Health Administration and her important meeting today with local Veterans and officials at the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center: “As elected officials, we must use every tool at our disposal to take action that improves the quality of the care our veterans receive. I have sent a letter to Secretary Eric Shinseki asking for all information regarding the Veterans in Texas who may have been impacted by these recent allegations of abuse. This week I supported a bill that gives the VA Secretary increased flexibility to fire senior executives within the Department. But we must make immediate strides in tackling the systemic failures within the VA that have allowed these problems to fester. There is no time to waste. “It is imperative that we get to the bottom of these allegations as quickly as possible. This week the President rightly called on the Inspector General and the Veterans Administration to deliver the full report of their investigations and a list of specific recommendations in the near future. Our nation’s heroes deserve to know all the facts without delay. We must be swift, but fair, to ensure that all those at the VA are working to provide the best services possible for our nation’s heroes. And if they aren’t, they need to go. “During this Memorial Day Weekend Holiday we must renew our commitment to keep our promises to the nation’s more than 2 million troops and reservists, their families, and 23 million veterans, including 32,477 here in 18th Congressional District. Let us also honor the memory of the more than 4,400 American servicemen and women who have died in Iraq and more than 2,100 who have died in Afghanistan. We also honor the sacrifices of the nearly 50,000 troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. “All of us share the goal of ensuring our brave veterans receive the quality treatment they deserve. We must not waste a single second in implementing reforms that can address these problems and prevent them from recurring.” ###
05.21.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member on the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement after HR 3202 – the Transportation Worker Identification Credential Assessment Act was passed out of the Homeland Security Border and Maritime Subcommittee by voice vote: “I was pleased that my bill, HR 3202 was passed out of the Homeland Security Border and Maritime Subcommittee by voice vote today. The nationwide recognition of the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) promotes security and standardization. A common credential enables facility and vessel operators as well as federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement entities to verify the identity of individuals—a step that was not feasible prior to TWIC implementation with potentially thousands of different facility-specific credentials. TWIC also allows transportation workers to move among facilities, vessels, and geographic regions as needed for routine market demands and during emergencies, while still maintaining security. “In the interest of security and in order to provide proper stewardship of appropriated funds and collected TWIC fees, I introduced legislation to insist that DHS demonstrate how the TWIC Program will improve maritime security. The Transportation Worker Identification Credential Assessment Act’ will require the Secretary of Homeland Security to complete and submit to Congress and GAO a comprehensive assessment of the effectiveness of the TWIC Program at enhancing or reducing security risks for maritime facilities and vessels. The comprehensive assessment will be completed by an independent, not-for-profit laboratory. Many problems and vulnerabilities persist and will have to be resolved if the TWIC Program is to ever realize the security benefits envisioned by Congress. “As we all know, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of Unaccompanied Alien Children coming across our borders, and especially increasingly younger children, attempting to enter this country without authorization along the southwest border. I also had an amendment accepted that would require the Customs and Border Patrol to report to Congress on the scope of the problem, the agency's efforts to address it, and any additional resources that may be necessary. The Secretary of Homeland Security recently announced measures the Department is undertaking to address this situation, including assigning additional personnel to South Texas where much of this activity is occurring; identifying additional short-term bed-space; and conducting a campaign to raise awareness in Mexico and Central America about the dangers of attempting to send children to enter the U.S. without authorization. “I look forward to the successful passage of this measure through the Full Committee.” ###
05.20.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the Congressional Caucus on Women’s Issues and the House Homeland Security Committee released the following statement today after participating in today’s Wreath Laying in honor of America’s fallen women: “Today it was my privilege to join my colleagues from the Congressional Caucus on Women's Issues in laying a wreath in honor and tribute to all of America’s fallen women. After we have placed the wreath, each member placed a single long-stemmed rose on the edge of the reflecting pool in personal tribute to these women. The petals from these roses will be used in the Women’s Memorial 17th annual Memorial Day ceremony on May 26th. “Since the Memorial’s dedication in 1997, rose petals have been placed in the reflecting pool in memory of America’s fallen, starting with those servicewomen who have been lost since the previous Memorial Day. Ceremony participants and members of the public came together in visible tribute for this signature event. It is gratifying to know that something from this ceremony is carried forward and incorporated into such a meaningful program here at the Women’s Memorial on the day when we come together as a nation to honor our fallen from all wars. “159 military women have lost their lives in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. I am honored each year to attend this ceremony and acknowledge the courage and heroism of servicewomen who have made the ultimate sacrifice to save their comrades and others. For our servicewomen in Afghanistan and Iraq will have no Mother’s Day brunches from them, no hugs from their kids. Their assignment, like most of what we ask of our service members, is extremely difficult and tough on their family. “I had the honor of speaking a few words to honor the women that have lost their lives in Afghanistan and Iraq. Every woman in our Military is adamant that they are there because they believe their presence will improve our own national security and the security of their children. Many servicewomen have lost their lives in protection of our own. We have to continue to make sure they know how we appreciate their service – that we realize their sacrifice and the sacrifice of their families if they do not return home. “While it is important to pay tribute to our fallen servicewomen, their families and, all who have served our country with words, we also must honor them with our actions. The challenges and needs of service members and veterans may vary, but some things remain constant: our responsibility to provide the necessary care for our returning service members and their families honors the commitment our nation made when we sent them into harm’s way. We cannot waiver on that front.” ###
05.19.2014	May 15, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the tragic loss of more than 300 miners killed or presumed death following the collapse of a mine in Soma, Turkey: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families and loved ones of miners killed in the collapse of a mine in Soma, Turkey. It is imperative that every avenue be pursued to rescue any and all miners who may have survived the mine collapse, the deadliest industrial disaster in Turkey’s history. I also express my appreciation to the Americans who have been assisting our Turkish friends in doing everything possible to rescue any survivors and to help those affected cope with heartbreaking losses resulting from this unspeakable tragedy. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
05.15.2014	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announces the preservation of the historic Southmore Post Office located at 4110 Almeda. This Post Office was the historic site of a 1960 civil rights demonstration that became Houston's first sit-ins by Texas Southern University students. Concerned citizens spoke out passionately about the significant historical aspect of this Post Office to Houston and more importantly the neighborhood. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee made it very clear that she would be working with her constituents and the Postal Advisory Committee to make sure this Post Office remained open. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee advocated that the Southmore Station Post Office was a very important economic engine for the U.S. Postal system with the ability to increase and improve its utilization because of the increasing and growing population in downtown Houston, Mid-Town, and surrounding areas including the historic Third Ward. “I am pleased to announce today the United States Postal Service’s decision to keep the Southmore station open in its current location. This is very good news for my constituents in Houston who rely on this Post Office for their mailing needs. I have visited this facility many times and understand how important it is to the local community. I am pleased that the Postal Service’s facility review process worked and resulted in a positive outcome,” stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Thanks to the hard work of the National Black United Front, Civic Clubs, Super Neighborhoods, Texas Southern University and many community leaders, the Southmore Station Post Office will remain open and retain a vital service to the community and the City of Houston. It will also be a site reflecting the history of the student sit-ins held by Texas Southern University students to push for Civil Rights under the law in the 1960’s. Press conference will be held at 12 noon tomorrow at the Southmore Post Office located at 4110 Almeda, Houston, Texas. ###
05.15.2014	May 12, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee issued the following statement in recognition of National Small Business Week: “This week, we celebrate National Small Business Week and recognize the contributions of small businesses across the country and those right here in the 18th Congressional District. For more than 50 years, the President of the United States has issued a proclamation designating a week in which the nation applauds the important contributions of America’s entrepreneurs and small business owners. “With more than half of Americans either owning or working for a small business, it is clear these companies are a vital part of our nation’s fabric. Every day, small firms and their employees across every sector and industry are working to grow and become stronger. When they do, we all benefit from their innovations, their job-creating power, and their ability to make the U.S. more competitive globally. Democrats back an agenda that will help small business startup and grow. “This includes supporting tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees. It also includes calling for immigration reform, which would provide a solution for those businesses facing a maze of problems when hiring immigrant workers, expanding financing options for entrepreneurs, especially in low- and moderate-income communities. We must also oppose cuts to job training programs that help meet American businesses’ workforce needs. Lastly, we must include working on a long-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund, which is critical for small construction firms across the nation. “It is against this backdrop that we stop and recognize the entrepreneurs that impact our lives every day. National Small Business Week provides such an opportunity. Whether it is opening a new storefront, training workers, or sponsoring activities in our cities and towns, we have many reasons to thank small businesses. This week we do so, and recognize these entrepreneurs not only for the contributions that they have already made, but also for their future work to strengthen our local communities.” ###
05.09.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), a senior member of the House and Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, released the following statement in response to the strong endorsement by the National Education Association (NEA) and the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) of the Jackson Lee Amendment to “Success and Opportunity Through Quality Charter Schools Act” (H.R. 10): “There are no stronger advocates for quality education for our children than the NEA and AFT. The Jackson Lee Amendment rests upon the fundamental premise that information parents need to make informed choices regarding their children’s education should be readily accessible and transparent. Requiring charter schools to make available on their websites information regarding student recruitment, orientation materials, enrollment criteria, student discipline policies, behavior codes, and incidental costs such as fees for student tutoring and extra-circular activities will enable parents to make better choices for their children. I am proud my amendment has the support of the NEA and AFT.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security. She also chairs the Congressional Children’s Caucus.
05.09.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security, released today the text of a letter that she and 15 Members of Congress sent to President Obama commending his decision to deploy American security experts and equipment in Nigeria to help locate and rescue the more than 200 Nigerian schoolgirls kidnapped by the terrorist group, Boko Haram and recommending to his consideration other measures to bring the leaders of Boka Haram to justice and to provide relief to victims of attacks. The text of the letter follows: Dear Mr. President: We are writing to commend your decision to deploy American security experts and equipment in Nigeria to help locate and rescue the more than 200 Nigerian schoolgirls kidnapped by the terrorist group, Boko Haram. We support your action and we strongly urge you to work in concert with the Government of Nigeria and the African Union to achieve this objective and to bring Abubakar Shekau and other leaders of Boko Haram to justice. Boko Haram, a militant group designated by the State Department in November 2013 as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, has been conducting a reign of terror against innocent Nigerian women, children, and men since 2009, when it killed hundreds of persons during a raid of a police station in Maiduguri. In the last four years, Boko Haram has carried out more than 480 violent attacks against a broad array of targets: Christian and Muslim communities, government installations, schools, hospitals and medical facilities, aid workers, and journalists. Since the beginning of 2013, more than 4,400 innocent persons have been killed and thousands more left homeless. According to media reports, the leader of Boko Haram has threatened to ransom or sell the girls into the human trafficking market for about twelve dollars each ($12.00 USD). This outrageous conduct cannot be tolerated or overlooked. Not only is it a violation of the girls’ human rights, it is also contrary to United States policy supporting and promoting equal access to educational and economic opportunity for women and girls. We know that terrorist groups cannot operate effectively without reliable and steady funding to support their criminal acts. Therefore, we urge you to work with the international community to detect, disrupt, and dismantle the funding networks financing Boko Haram, which published reports indicate has received as much as $70 million from other Islamist groups, including Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) and Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsular (AQAP), the Al Muntada Trust Fund, and the Islamic World Society. Additionally, we urge you to consider working with the Government of Nigeria to develop its own capacity to deploy specialized police and army units rapidly to rescue the schoolgirls and bring Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau to justice. Such units also can be deployed to prevent and combat sectarian violence in cities and around the country where there has been a history of sectarian violence. The creation of an elite highly-trained rapid response unit would appear to be a sound short-term strategy that the Government of Nigeria should employ in dealing with violent groups like Boko Haram. This approach was used to successful effect by the Indonesia Government in 2004 to neutralize the Laskar Jihad terrorist organization. Finally, we call upon you to take appropriate action to help the Government of Nigeria establish a Victim’s Fund to provide humanitarian relief and economic assistance to the victims of attacks by Boko Haram so that they can rebuild their lives and communities. “People are the great issue of the 20th century,” declared, then-Senator Hubert Humphrey in 1948. The well-being of people remains the great issue of the 21st century. And there is no better measure of any society than the way its treats its women and girls. Boko Haram understands that when Nigerian girls are educated, Nigerian women can succeed; and when Nigerian women succeed, Nigeria succeeds. And that is why it is so important that the United States help Nigeria ensure that Boko Haram fails. Thank you for your leadership and your consideration of our recommendations. We stand ready to work with you to bring about the safe rescue of the kidnapped Nigerian schoolgirls and to reunite them with their families and loved ones. Sincerely, List of Signatories Marcia L. Fudge Sheila Jackson Lee Member of Congress Member of Congress Karen E. Bass Terri A. Sewell Member of Congress Member of Congress Donald Payne, Jr. Corrine Brown Member of Congress Member of Congress John Lewis Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Member of Congress Yvette D. Clarke Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Member of Congress Robin Kelly Barbara Lee Member of Congress Member of Congress Janice Hahn Marc Veasey Member of Congress Member of Congress ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
05.09.2014	May 8, 2014 Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, released the following statement on the memorandum issued by Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson today directing the creation of a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) wide inter-component campaign plan for the security of the southern border: “Today Homeland Security Secretary Johnson issued a memorandum whose effort is designed to provide a comprehensive strategy and operational plans directed at threats – including illegal migration, drug trafficking, human trafficking, weapons trafficking, and terrorism – that serves as an example of the Obama Administration’s unprecedented efforts to strengthen security along the southern border. “I am hopeful that this plan will help further direct and coordinate the Department’s unprecedented efforts along our southern border. As an original cosponsor of H.R. 1417, the Border Security Results Act, I support DHS developing a comprehensive border security strategy and implementation plan, particularly given the scope of the challenge and the number of agencies involved. I look forward to being briefed by DHS on this effort and to conducting close oversight of its development in my role as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security. “Today, the Southwest border is better-patrolled than at any other time in history. Along the Southwest border, the DHS has increased the number of personnel on the ground. Since 2009, ICE HSI has deployed a quarter of all its operational personnel to the Southwest border region, doubled the number of officers dedicated to identify, disrupt, and dismantle criminal organizations that pose a significant threat to border security, and more than tripled deployments by Border Liaison Officers who facilitate cooperation between U.S. and Mexican law enforcement authorities. Cooperation with Mexico to address the threats posed to both our nations by the illicit trafficking of humans, drugs, weapons, illicit proceeds, and cartel operatives, is my number one priority.” ###
05.07.2014	May 6, 2014 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member on the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the Speakers appointment of a new select committee on Benghazi which is a monumental waste of time and taxpayer dollars: “This week, Republicans are wasting time on more unnecessary, partisan distractions, when we should be focused on creating jobs and strengthening the middle class. To lead off the GOP’s week of smoke and mirrors, Republican leaders are gearing up to exploit the tragic deaths of four brave Americans in Benghazi. There have already been seven reviews of that terrible attack: one by the State Department Accountability Review Board, two bipartisan reviews in the Senate, and four reviews in the House. These reviews have produced more than 25,000 documents and dozens of interviews and testimony from high-level officials throughout the government. “Responding to endless, repetitive and partisan congressional requests has cost the Department of Defense and other agencies thousands of man-hours and expenses running into the millions of dollars. The Republicans’ proposed special committee is nothing more than an attempt to divert attention away from their own do-nothing record, and throw red meat to the most extreme and conspiracy-obsessed parts of their base. After almost 3 1/2 years, House Republicans have next to nothing to show for their time in the majority, aside from failed leadership, debilitating dysfunction, and the culture of crisis. Republicans’ reckless policies resulted in a first-ever downgrade in our credit rating and brought us the 16-day Republican Government Shutdown. “The attacks in Benghazi were a tragedy and we join the families of those who died in continuing to mourn their loss. As we go forward, we should always act in a manner respectful of their loss and to prevent future loss of life. There has been a review at the State Department by the Accountability Review Board. There were two bipartisan reviews in the United States Senate, and four partisan reviews in the House of Representatives. “The Do-Nothing Republican 113th Congress is setting a new low of obstruction and contempt for the priorities of the American people – refusing to create jobs, refusing to renew emergency unemployment insurance, refusing to raise the minimum wage, and refusing to address comprehensive immigration reform. It is time for Republicans to abandon their hollow and toxic partisan agenda, and work with Democrats to create jobs and build an economy that works for everyone – not just the wealthy.” # # #
05.05.2014	Who: The Black Heritage Society, Ovide Duncantell, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, City of Houston and Community Leaders When: Saturday, May 24, 2014 Time: 9:00 A.M. - Parade and Victory March 11:00 A.M. - Official Unveiling of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Statue and Memorial Plaza 1:00 P.M. - Victory Festival Where: MacGregor Park MLK Blvd. and Old Spanish Trail Houston, TX 77003 ###
05.05.2014	Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement after participating in today’s District Google GABO (Getting American Business Online) Event: “As the most senior elected official representing approximately 650,000 residents and thousands of companies living and conducting business from offices located in the 18th Congressional District, and being a member of the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Judiciary, issues affecting jobs and the advancement of our economy are a priority to me. We are here today to discuss the largely important role that small businesses play in creating jobs and advancing economic stability for the American people, at a time when our nation needs every single job we can create. “Today Google will be helping small business owners create their own websites, receive a customized domain name, free web hosting for one year, a local business listing on Google Maps, free tools, training and resources. Small businesses have long been the bedrock of our nation’s economy. Even with the advent of modern-day multi-national corporations most of our day-to-day purchases take place at ‘mom and pop’ small businesses. Small businesses need of access to loans and other lines of credit in order to build their businesses and create jobs. They are the life blood of our economy. These businesses, the ‘mom and pop’ shops across our nation are no longer being held hostage by my colleagues across the aisle at the expense of jobs. “99 percent of all independent companies and businesses in the United States are considered small businesses. They are the engine of our economy, creating two-thirds of the new jobs over the last 15 years. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, these small businesses account for 52 percent of all U.S. workers. These small businesses also provide a continuing source of vitality for the American economy. Our nation has always relied on the proven innovation and flexibility that comes with a small business economy. Entrepreneurs can count on me as an unyielding advocate of their rights and needs, and can be certain that I will continue efforts to provide them with the tools needed to succeed. “Small businesses have experienced difficulties in this challenging economy. More than half of the 763,000 jobs lost in the first half of 2008 were lost in small firms. Small firms continue to face a tough environment through 2009, with concerns in a wide range of areas including access to capital, the cost of providing health insurance, attracting a quality work force, and meeting the unique 21st century global competitive challenge. “As our economy bounces back, small firms will play a leading role in revitalizing the nation’s workforce. Congress and the Administration have directed $15 billion in tax relief to small firms, generated $21 billion in small business lending and investment, and created more than $30 billion in contracting opportunities for entrepreneurs. Congress has acted to modernize and enhance SBA research and development programs, improve entrepreneurial development programs, create jobs in the coming green economy, and support veterans interested in entrepreneurship. “I will continue to fight to ensure that small businesses get their fair share of federal contracts, gain access to the most innovative technologies, and are given the type of development assistance needed in today’s competitive global market. Small business growth means economic growth for the nation. But to keep this segment of our economy thriving, entrepreneurs need access to loans. Through loans, small business owners can expand their businesses, hire more workers and provide more goods and services.” ###
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today commemorating Cinco de Mayo, which is today: “Today families across America will celebrate both the courage of the defenders of Puebla in 1862 and the extraordinary contributions Mexican-Americans continue to make to our national life. In defeating a foreign army that posed a threat to Mexico’s independence and to American interests, the outnumbered Mexican defenders heroically laid the foundation for the deep cultural, economic, and political ties that bind our two countries to this day. “I join in honoring the many Mexican-Americans who have helped shape our country in the fields of business, government, education, science, workers’ rights, the arts and our national defense. In marking this Cinco de Mayo, let us continue to further strengthen the relationship between the United States and Mexico, and ensure that the Mexican-American community continues to receive the recognition it is due for helping build a stronger, safer, and more prosperous country for all Americans.” ###
04.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – In the face of today’s vote in the Senate, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee vowed to continue the fight for an increase in the national minimum wage, which would give at least 25 million Americans a pay raise. By a vote of 54 to 42, Senate Republicans blocked consideration of legislation (S.2223) to increase the minimum wage from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour over three years and then link it to inflation moving forward. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “Today, Republicans in the Senate blocked action on raising the minimum wage, despite the momentum for this effort to give at least 25 million Americans a pay raise across the country. No one who works full time should have to raise their family in poverty. So I will continue to fight to raise the minimum wage, which would give 26.2% of hardworking Texans a pay raise so they can afford to support their families. We will not stop until this legislation is passed, which increases income here in Texas by $4,977,598,000.” “The current minimum wage pays only $14,500 per year, so this increase would lift between 1 million and 4.5 million Americans out of poverty. A majority of minimum-wage workers have full-time jobs, and many of them are women. The average worker who would get this raise is 35 years old and brings home half of their family’s total income. “Further, increasing the minimum wage will help all Americans, growing our economy by generating some $22 billion in increased economic activity and creating 85,000 additional jobs – including 11,000 in Texas. Businesses like Gap and Costco have already embraced paying a higher minimum wage because it strengthens their bottom line, with more productive employees, less turnover, and more customers who have more money to spend. “Even though a strong majority of Americans support raising the minimum wage, Republicans in Congress are blocking action in the Senate and the House. House Republicans have voted seven times to block consideration or against a minimum wage increase. That is why 195 Democrats have signed a discharge petition to force action on this widely supported legislation. The Fair Minimum Wage Act was introduced by Congressman George Miller on March 6, 2013, and has 195 cosponsors, but Republicans have failed to schedule a hearing or a mark-up on the bill. The discharge petition will require the House to consider the minimum wage legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed the petition. “The American people are calling for an economy that works for everyone – where a hard day’s work earns a decent day’s pay and everyone has the opportunity to build a brighter future. Instead of putting the interests of big corporations ahead of the public, congressional Republicans should allow a vote on this proposal to value work and give Americans a raise. ###
04.29.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee released the following statement today regarding the racist comments alleged to have been made by Donald Sterling, the owner of the NBA’s Los Angeles Clippers franchise: “Donald Sterling’s comments are racist and highly offensive. They have no place in our society and are beneath contempt. “It is particularly unfortunate that these despicable remarks were made by an owner of an NBA franchise because the National Basketball Association has been leading the way in showing the world that America’s diversity is it greatest strength and asset. NBA teams are comprised of athletes from every race and background who work hard and in common purpose to achieve the shared goal of winning championship and thrilling their fans, who can be found on every continent of the globe. As an economic engine, the NBA generates billions of dollars to the national and local economy. “I am encouraged by the announcement of NBA Commissioner Silver that the league and its owners take this matter very seriously and I am confident will take appropriate action to make it clear that when it comes to racism, the NBA has a zero-tolerance policy. “The United States of America is the most vibrant, dynamic, and welcoming nation in the world. Here we embrace and celebrate our diverse backgrounds and cultures because we understand that our diversity makes us better and stronger. The racist comments and attitudes expressed by Donald Sterling, and last week by Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, have no place in our civic life. But they also remind us that 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 there is still much work to be done in perfecting our union. “It is perhaps not a coincidence that the offensive comments of Donald Sterling and Cliven Bundy were made by persons who came of age during the pre-Civil Rights era and that their views are not shared by the vast majority of their children’s and grandchildren’s generation. Diversity in education has been indispensable in this transformation. That is why the decision last week by the Supreme Court upholding Michigan’s anti-affirmative action initiative is so unfortunate. “The Court’s decision perpetuates the direct harm to African-American, Hispanic, and Native American students and inflicts indirect harm to all other students, including those admitted as alumni legatees, which is just a disguised affirmative action program for the affluent. They are all harmed is because as Justice Sotomayor pointed out in her powerful dissent, the Court’s ruling handicaps Michigan's public colleges and universities in providing the campus diversity that ‘ensures the next generation moves beyond the stereotypes, the assumptions, and the superficial perceptions that students coming from less-heterogeneous communities may harbor, consciously or not, about people who do not look like them.’ “America is a nation moving into the future. Our diversity gives us the unique opportunity to compete and win in a globalized economy. But to realize that future, we must leave behind the ignorance and long discredited beliefs and attitudes of the Donald Sterlings and Cliven Bundys of this world.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
04.29.2014	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the recent devastating tornadoes in Iowa, Arkansas, Mississippi and other parts of the South: “I would like to extend my deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives because of the tornadoes that have swept through the states of Iowa, Arkansas, Misssissippi and other parts of the South the last few days. My heart goes out to all those who have been affected by this devastation, and I commend the heroic efforts of those First Responders who have been working tirelessly to respond to this disaster. “I am positive that the Federal Government will move quickly in our response. While we may not know the extent of the damage for days, I am positive that we will continue to monitor these severe storms as they go across the country and the Federal Government will stand ready to continue to help the people of the states affected and all citizens affected by these storms.” ###
04.29.2014	April 28, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee released the following statement today regarding the racist comments alleged to have been made by Donald Sterling, the owner of the NBA’s Los Angeles Clippers franchise: “Donald Sterling’s comments are racist and highly offensive. They have no place in our society and are beneath contempt. “It is particularly unfortunate that these despicable remarks were made by an owner of an NBA franchise because the National Basketball Association has been leading the way in showing the world that America’s diversity is it greatest strength and asset. NBA teams are comprised of athletes from every race and background who work hard and in common purpose to achieve the shared goal of winning championship and thrilling their fans, who can be found on every continent of the globe. As an economic engine, the NBA generates billions of dollars to the national and local economy. “I am encouraged by the announcement of NBA Commissioner Silver that the league and its owners take this matter very seriously and I am confident will take appropriate action to make it clear that when it comes to racism, the NBA has a zero-tolerance policy. “The United States of America is the most vibrant, dynamic, and welcoming nation in the world. Here we embrace and celebrate our diverse backgrounds and cultures because we understand that our diversity makes us better and stronger. The racist comments and attitudes expressed by Donald Sterling, and last week by Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, have no place in our civic life. But they also remind us that 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 there is still much work to be done in perfecting our union. “It is perhaps not a coincidence that the offensive comments of Donald Sterling and Cliven Bundy were made by persons who came of age during the pre-Civil Rights era and that their views are not shared by the vast majority of their children’s and grandchildren’s generation. Diversity in education has been indispensable in this transformation. That is why the decision last week by the Supreme Court upholding Michigan’s anti-affirmative action initiative is so unfortunate. “The Court’s decision perpetuates the direct harm to African-American, Hispanic, and Native American students and inflicts indirect harm to all other students, including those admitted as alumni legatees, which is just a disguised affirmative action program for the affluent. They are all harmed is because as Justice Sotomayor pointed out in her powerful dissent, the Court’s ruling handicaps Michigan's public colleges and universities in providing the campus diversity that ‘ensures the next generation moves beyond the stereotypes, the assumptions, and the superficial perceptions that students coming from less-heterogeneous communities may harbor, consciously or not, about people who do not look like them.’ “America is a nation moving into the future. Our diversity gives us the unique opportunity to compete and win in a globalized economy. But to realize that future, we must leave behind the ignorance and long discredited beliefs and attitudes of the Donald Sterlings and Cliven Bundys of this world.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
04.29.2014	April 24, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, released the following statement today regarding the proposed anti-discrimination ordinance that will considered next month by the Houston City Council: “Houston is America’s most diverse, dynamic, and welcoming city. To Houstonians, what matters is not the color of your skin, or the country you are from, but the content of your character and your willingness to work hard and play by the rules. So it is fitting and long past time that these values be reflected in our local laws. “I therefore welcome the proposed anti-discrimination ordinance that will be considered next month by the Houston City Council and strongly urge its passage. This year we are justly celebrating the 50th anniversary of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964, brilliantly shepherded to passage by one of the greatest Texans, President Johnson, which outlawed discrimination in employment, education, and public accommodations on the grounds of race, creed, color, religion, sex, or national origin. The Civil Rights Act has made our country better. “The proposed anti-discrimination ordinance represents another giant step forward in our nation’s and our city’s continuing efforts to form a more perfect union. It does so by extending the right to seek and hold employment, obtain housing, and enjoy public accommodations free from discrimination to all individuals in Houston without regard not just to sex, race, color, ethnicity, religion, national origin but also to age, familial status, marital status, military status, disability, sexual orientation, genetic information, gender identity or pregnancy. “Every Houstonian should be entitled to work and live and enjoy the ‘blessings of liberty’ free of invidious discrimination. That is all the proposed anti-discrimination ordinance does and it does so in a manner that respects the freedom of religion guarantees of the First Amendment since religious organizations are exempt from the definition of an employer. “The proposed anti-discrimination ordinance ensures that Houston’s laws reflect the respect for diversity which is reflected in the character of its residents. I look forward to its adoption by the Houston City Council next month.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
04.23.2014	Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the Governor of Georgia signed legislation (Georgia House Bill 60) which allows Georgians to carry firearms in a wide range of new places, including schools, bars, churches and government buildings: “Over one million people have been killed with guns in the United States since 1968. U.S. homicide rates are 6.9 times higher than rates in 22 other populous high-income countries combined, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. Most gun owners are responsible and law-abiding, and they use their guns safely. We must begin discussing common-sense steps we can take right now to combat gun violence. Signing House Bill 60 is not that right step to take when trying to confront gun violence in America. I have introduced H.R. 65, the Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act and I have co-sponsored other gun safety legislation while in Congress. Many in the law enforcement community have expressed support for my legislation. “The legislations signed today by the Governor of Georgia legalizes the use of silencers for hunting, clears the way for school staffers to carry guns in school zones and lets leaders of religious congregations choose whether to allow licensed gun holders inside. And it allows permitted gun owners to carry their weapons in government buildings – including parts of courthouses – where there is no security at the entrance. This is a step in the wrong direction!!!!!! “The community in Newtown, Connecticut – along with the rest of the country - is still reeling from the inconceivable tragedy that took place at Sandy Hook Elementary on December 14, 2012; our hearts still ache with sadness and disbelief for the families and loved ones of the children and women who lost their lives in this senseless act of violence. “As the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus and a senior Member of the Judiciary Committee, I have listened far too often to the tragic testimony of individuals who have survived or lost loved ones as a result of gun violence. We need a comprehensive approach: a surge in mental health services, mental health ‘first aid’ programs to identify and intervene in problems before it is too late, and a background check system that will stop the most dangerous among us from buying guns, by getting records in the system and closing the Internet and gun-show loopholes. “We must take on this challenge with the recognition that changing the pervasive culture of violence will not happen overnight. While we can act now and pass legislation to ameliorate some of causes of the youth violence epidemic, this problem is larger than our laws. That is why we must make an enduring commitment to our youth. Signing House Bill 60 does not make that commitment to our children. We must work tirelessly to create an environment in this country that lifts the psychological burden of violence off the shoulders of our kids.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
04.23.2014	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today after the Supreme Court issued its decision in Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, overturning the Sixth Circuit ruling, and upholding Michigan Proposal 2 which prohibits affirmative action in public education, government contracting, and public employment: “The decision by the Supreme Court is another regrettable step to rig the political process against efforts to constitutionally advance diversity in our society. This case is about whether students of color in Michigan are allowed to compete on the same playing field as all other students. The Supreme Court said they are not. Since Proposal 2 took effect, African-American enrollment at the University of Michigan’s undergraduate and law schools has declined by 30 percent, and students of color have decried the tense racial climate on campus. The ruling sets a dangerous precedent and will unlikely help either of these issues move in a more positive direction. The Voting Rights Act was enacted only after years of those in the civil rights movement marching and in some cases being beaten or dying for the right to vote. For 50 years, the Voting Rights Act has helped secure the right to vote for millions of Americans and this decision should not be happening 50 years later. “This decision gives donors, athletic officials, and alumni unencumbered access to university officials when lobbying for their constituents, however completely shuts out supporters of greater diversity on campus from the admissions process. Research has shown that structural and institutional racism are significant factors in educational achievement and economic attainment, but the decision allows a majority vote to overturn public policies that protect minorities against discriminatory practices. Removing these policies often result in allowing practices that traditionally benefit individuals in an unequal and unjust society to continue, at the consequence of others being shut out. “This is another disappointing decision by the Supreme Court that removes federal protection against racial discrimination in our communities, and will now allow discrimination to happen more frequently on campuses across the country and in other sectors of our society. Our society, our economy, and our democracy depend on young people of all backgrounds, races and ethnicities having a fair shot at a strong education – the foundation of a better life for themselves and their families. These ladders of opportunity are essential to the vitality and strength of our nation, and the Supreme Court’s recent blindness to the real and enduring effects of discrimination diminishes all of us. “We must continue to fight to ensure that all Americans have the chance to attend college, to be heard in the political process, and to succeed in the global economy.” # # # Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
04.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today in recognition of Earth Day: "Earth Day must be a moment to build on our efforts to invest in clean energy jobs, to strengthen industries of innovation, to decrease harmful emissions, and to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. This must be an opportunity to act to keep America number one in science, technology, and renewable energy. This day must represent a clarion call to renew our commitment to defend our natural resources and reverse the ill effects of climate change. “For more than four decades, Americans have come together on Earth Day to renew our commitment to protecting the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the planet we all call home. As students, families and communities across the country celebrate this day with service, we rededicate ourselves to the work of conservation, to the promise of clean energy, and to our duty to confront the accelerating challenge of climate change. “Our time calls for fresh determination and urgency. We must lead the way in science, technology, and renewable energy – and ensure that we are leaving a healthy environment to our children and our grandchildren. I will continue to push for action, working to increase our investments in innovation and efficiency, reducing emissions, and strengthening America’s claim on the new industries and good-paying jobs of the clean energy economy. “We cannot afford to deny the reality of climate change, or to roll back our commitment to a sustainable future for all the generations to come. Yet, all too often, our environment has come under direct assault from our Republican colleagues’ toxic political games. We will need to work together if we are to meet the challenge before us. On this Earth Day, let us embrace our shared stewardship of this planet, preserve our environment, strengthen our economy, and avert the crisis of global warming. We must work side-by-side with the American people to create a future of sustainability for our children and grandchildren, prosperity and opportunity for our families and communities, security and energy independence for generations to come.” # # #
04.22.2014	April 21, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the new rules announced today by Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the clemency initiative announced by the Department of Justice: “The United States incarcerates nearly 25 percent of the world’s inmates, even though it only has 5 percent of the world’s population. Thirty years ago, there were less than 30,000 inmates in the federal system; today, there are nearly 216,000, an increase of 800 percent. No other country imprisons a larger percentage of its population than the United States or spends anywhere near the $6.5 billion that we spend annually on prison administration. “The executive clemency initiative announced by the Department of Justice in February is a welcome and exciting development. It is good to see that the Department of Justice is actively soliciting the assistance of state and local bar associations, civil rights organizations, and the criminal defense bar in identifying and assisting potential candidates in assembling commutation petitions which effectively present the information the Department and the President need to meaningfully consider the requested grant of clemency. “As a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary and a former long-time member of its Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, it is refreshing to see the Department of Justice take a proactive position regarding this important initiative and with these new rulings we now see that the President is very receptive and supportive when it comes to moving this initiative forward. Various organizations such as the NAACP, National Bar Association, National Urban League, Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and the National Legal Aid and Defender Association have been asked to both assist and participate in this important new initiative being undertaken by the U.S. Department of Justice to address the prison overpopulation crisis. I recently wrote an Op Ed entitled ‘WE ARE OUR BROTHERS’ AND SISTERS’ KEEPER: EXECUTIVE CLEMENCY AND SENTENCE COMMUTATION IS SIMPLE JUSTICE LONG OVERDUE’ which discussed the clemency issue in depth. “I introduced H.R.265, the Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2009 which would have eliminated the five-year mandatory minimum prison term for first-time possession of crack cocaine. In 2010, Congress passed the Fair Sentencing Act and repealed some of the mandatory sentences that were instated in the 1980s, when there was a crackdown on these offenses. But the problem with the 2010 law is that it does not apply retroactively, which is why some of these people seen as unfairly sentenced might need pardon now. It is important to note that candidates for clemency would include inmates who have had clean records in prison, do not present a threat to public safety and are facing excessive sentences. This push toward clemency brings attention to a larger systemic problem: harsh mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses.” ###
04.22.2014	Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the passing of Rev. Dr. Albert Louis Patterson, Jr.: “Today the city of Houston, the State of Texas and the Nation mourn the passing of Rev. Dr. Albert Louis Patterson, Jr. an amazing leader who touched and changed the lives of thousands for the better through his pastorship of the Mount Corinth Missionary Baptist Church in Houston, which he led for 36 years. “He was revered as one of the greats within the African-American church; the ‘Godfather’ of expository preaching. Loved and admired by many nationwide, the Rev. Dr. Albert Louis Patterson Jr. was more than just a preacher; he was an educator and a beacon for knowledge, wisdom and kindness. On April 9, after 80 blessed years of life, Rev. Patterson was called home to be with the Lord. For those who have never had the pleasure of meeting him or ever had the chance to witness his preaching, know that Rev. Patterson had a gift. “Rev. Patterson was recognized three times by his peers as a ‘Living Legend.’ He taught and preached at the National Baptist Convention, USA, Inc. and lectured for the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, for the Promise Keepers, and .the Preachers Division, National Baptist Congress. Rev. Patterson was by named by Ebony Magazine as one of America’s greatest black preachers and was inducted into the Morehouse College Hall of Preachers. Rev. Patterson pastored congregations in California and Texas and was the author of three books: ‘Joy For the Journey’; “Wisdom in Strange Places”; and ‘Prerequisites for a Good Journey.’ “The Rev. Dr. Albert Louis Patterson lectured at the Morehouse College of Religion, the American Baptist College in Nashville, Tennessee and the Mid-American Theological Seminary. He conducted revivals in more than 25 cities and preached more than 100 sermons and lecturers in the National Baptist Convention. The Rev. Dr. Albert Louis Patterson lived a consequential life in the service of his community, his family, and our country. “What I learned from Rev. Patterson was that a preacher must always be about learning, exploring and questioning. Rev. Patterson was a model who set a large example of what excellence looks like. He will be missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family his beloved wife Melba and their children – Anthony, Albert III, Alan, and Alette. “Rev. Patterson was honored by the United States of America with a letter given by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee from the President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama along with a flag incased in a shadow box that was flown over the United States Capitol. ”The ceremony was presided over by Rev. Ratliff and Rev. Ralph West gave the eulogy. Rev. Patterson was honored by the leaders from the National Baptist Convention USA including Dr. Julius R. Scruggs. The Mount Corinth Missionary Baptist Church mass choir raised the roof with praise and honor in song. Special musical guest included Bishop Paul Morton. And the new pastor Re. A. Louise Patterson of Mt. Corinth Missionary Baptist Church gave glorious and celebratory parting words.” ###
04.14.2014	April 11, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement following high level meetings in Mexico City with official of the Mexican Government during which she discussed U.S.-Mexico border security issues, including immigration, national security, human trafficking, gun trafficking, U.S.-Mexico diplomatic relations, and H.R. 1417, the Border Security Results Act, bipartisan legislation that provides the strategic framework and resources to secure the nation’s borders: “I have long advocated for a comprehensive, DHS-wide strategy for achieving border security that brings together the various components, personnel, and resources that play a role in the Department's border security mission. We need the cooperation of Mexican government officials to combat the range of threats on our southern border, which include persons entering the US without documentation and international criminal activity along our nation’s borders. “Human trafficking continues to be a formidable problem in many parts of the world, including the Western Hemisphere. I have worked tirelessly for policies that will make America safer. One of the biggest challenges to securing the border is eradicating the traffic in drugs, guns, and humans, which may be linked to many other crimes, from prostitution to murder. “When the nation thinks of border security it should consider that there are two sides that make up a border. Our relationship with our allies in North America is a key asset in our efforts to control our nation’s borders.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
04.14.2014	April 9, 2014 WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today commemorating the 20th anniversary of the Rwandan Genocide. “20 years ago, on April 7th, 1994, Hutu militias ordered the country’s Hutu majority to exterminate the Tutsi ethnic group. Neighbors attacked neighbors, teachers killed students, and in mixed-ethnicity marriages, husbands handed over wives to be killed. “In total, 800,000 people, mostly ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus, died at the hands of Hutu extremists during a 100-day period. 10,00 victims were killed each day – 7 per minute on average. To make matters even worse, hundreds of thousands of victims were infected with HIV as Hutu extremists used rape as a tool of violence. The terrible violence only ended when Tutsi rebel forces attacked and retook the country. “We must remember the victims of this horrific event in world history, honor those that survived the tragedy, and recognize the measures that have been taken to remedy the atrocities that occurred in those one-hundred days. “We must look to the progress that Rwanda has made 20 years later. Life expectancy has almost doubled and economic growth continues to flourish. We must continue to seek justice as the international tribunal created in the wake of these atrocities has delivered only 49 total convictions out of 95 indictments since 1995. “The United States recognizes that steps must be made to ensure this never happens again and as we strive for justice for those lost, we will always remember those that suffered at the hands of extremists.” ###
04.10.2014	April 9, 2014 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding today’s memorial at the Fort Hood military base which she attended with the President of the United States and the Texas Congressional Delegation: “Today I offer my deepest sympathy to the families of the men who lost their lives and to those who were injured at Fort Hood. This is the second time that an incident like this has occurred and the second time I have been at Fort Hood for a memorial. We owe are men and women in uniform the greatest degree of security while on domestic soil. I will pray for the families and continue to work for their safety on domestic soil. We must secure our soldiers as they put on their uniform. We will never forget them and this should never happen again. God Bless them and God Bless the United States of America.” ###
04.03.2014	April 2, 2014 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding today’s shooting at the Fort Hood military base. “Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee offers her deepest sympathy to the families of the men and women who lost their lives and to those who were injured at Fort Hood. This is the second time that an incident like this has occurred. This is a threat to our national security and a threat to the men and women in the United States military. It is time now to formulate a serious Homeland Security response that makes this base impenetrable. The last shooting on November 5, 2009, I mourned with the Fort Hood family and we said never again. Now, we have to question the security of this base and demand zero tolerance for security breaches on our military bases and government facilities. This should not happen on our domestic soil.” ###
04.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan released this year’s version of the House Republican budget: “Today, Republicans have laid out their vision for a less prosperous America, demonstrating, yet again, the weakness of their arithmetic and the strength of their indifference to the concerns of struggling middle class families across the country. They are proving the lengths they will go to protect the special interests at the expense of the public interest. They are undermining seniors, students, and the middle class, crippling our economic competitiveness, and gutting our nation’s investments in the future – all to protect loopholes for the wealthy few and corporations that ship jobs overseas. “Under this Republican budget, the wealthy and well-connected wouldn’t be asked to pay even a little more. But seniors would be asked to pay more for preventive services and prescription drugs and see the end of the Medicare guarantee. Families would witness devastating cuts to research, innovation, education, clean energy, and manufacturing, ceding economic leadership to other nations. All Americans would see a budget that rejects comprehensive immigration reform, with its promise of job creation, stronger small businesses, a growing economy, and a shrinking deficit. “Democrats have a better approach: creating jobs, strengthening the middle class, investing in our infrastructure and our children’s education, closing the opportunity gap, and responsibly reducing the deficit. Together, we can reignite the American Dream and build an economy that works for everyone.” # # #
04.01.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee recently held an enrollment event to sign up Houstonians for health care coverage through the Affordable Care Act Sunday at the Community of Faith Center – the Yates-Dixon Campus. The event signed up well over 100 people and the last person was signed up at 10pm. The Congresswoman released the following statement regarding the end of the Affordable Care Act's first open enrollment season yesterday, as HealthCare.gov saw a record volume of visits yesterday: “Recently I held an ACA enrollment event in my District in Houston, Texas. It was a successful event where we enrolled more than 100 people and their families at the Community of Faith Center. I want to thank Bishop James Dixon and the staff of the Community of Faith Center. With their help more than six million Americans and thousands of Houstonians have now enrolled in private health insurance plans through the federal and state-based marketplaces, and there are still several days left for those who need affordable coverage to sign up. The Affordable Care Act is working for millions of Americans, including all those who are now protected against discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, lifetime or annual caps on coverage, and being dropped by their insurers when they get sick. We waged a peaceful war against those that wanted to stop those who wanted to get involved with the Affordable Care Act. I am excited about the constituents of the 18th Congressional District and the surrounding area who have signed up for health care. Our task is not finished!!!!!!! Now people can get their health needs addressed. I appreciate the multiple visits made by Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius of and Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx made to my District to support our efforts to sign people up for quality health care. “The Affordable Care Act is working to help those on Medicare receive a range of free preventive services. Last year I sent a letter to Governor Perry expressing my outrage with the fact that he reaffirmed his opposition to the expansion of the Medicaid program in Texas (see attached). It is because of my deep desire to help our state meet the needs of our citizens in a fiscally responsible manner that I wrote the Governor to inform him that his opposition to expanding Texas’ Medicaid program to include low-income adults is fiscally irresponsible and morally indefensible, especially to the 28.8% of adult Texans who lack healthcare coverage, which is the highest in the nation. This is not a political issue but it is a life or death issue. We need to work with the President to find ways to substitute the rejection of Medicaid expansion, so citizens do not lose out on the benefits of the Affordable Care Act. “It is important to protect health equity and the access to affordable healthcare in the African American community. African Americans have long-suffered from poorer health and premature mortality as a direct result of their disproportionately high rates of uninsurance, HIV/AIDS, cancer, diabetes, heart disease and overweight and obesity, as well as from the social determinants of health that not only sustain, but that exacerbate racial and ethnic health disparities. “Democrats are committed to making sure the Affordable Care Act works for all Americans, and we will continue to defend it against attempts by House Republicans to repeal or undermine its cost savings and patient protections. The Affordable Care Act is providing security for the new couple starting a family, for the entrepreneur getting ready to launch a new business, for the workers who now know that their health insurance will always be there. This measure is ensuring that women are never charged more than men for the same coverage; that young adults can stay on their parents' insurance until age 26; that no one can be turned away for having a pre-existing condition; that seniors can get free preventive care and afford their prescription drugs. This law is liberating families from the fear that an accident or illness will drive them into bankruptcy, as it holds down costs and improves efficiency in our health care system. Because of The Affordable Care Act: • Coverage for 11, 400 additional young adults in the 18th Congressional district. The health care law requires health insurers to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. Because of this provision, 11,400 young adults in my congressional district have already gained health care coverage. • Lower drug costs for 4,100 seniors in the 18th Congressional district. The health care law is providing major savings in drug costs for seniors in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole.’ Because of this provision, 4,100 seniors in my congressional district have received prescription drug discounts worth $5.4 million, an average discount of $600 per person in 2011, $650 in 2012, and $1,040 thus far in 2013. • Free preventive services for 71,000 seniors in the 18th Congressional district. Since 2011, the health care law provides free Medicare coverage of preventive services, such as mammograms and colonoscopies. Because of this provision, 71,000 seniors in my congressional district are now eligible for Medicare preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance or deductible. • Protection for up to 46,000 children with pre-existing conditions in the 18th Congressional district. Since September 2010, the health care law has prohibited insurers from denying coverage to children for having a pre-existing health condition. Because of this provision, up to 46,000 children with pre-existing conditions in my congressional district are being protected from denial of coverage. • Access to quality, affordable coverage for 193,000 uninsured individuals in the 18th Congressional district. Millions of uninsured Americans will gain access to quality, affordable health coverage, through the new Marketplaces and the expansion of Medicaid, under the health care law. In my district, 193,000 individuals who lack health insurance will have access to quality, affordable coverage without fear of discrimination or higher rates because of a preexisting health condition. “Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, millions of Americans are enjoying new health security, and the personal and economic freedom it provides. Yet still, after voting 51 times to repeal or undermine the law, Republicans will not give up on their outright assault on the health and economic stability of the middle class. Now is the time to celebrate the successes of the Affordable Care Act, to strengthen it for the years to come, and to maintain health care as a right, not a privilege, for all Americans.” ###
03.27.2014	February 19, 2014 Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee nominated Yank Barry for the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize. “Yank Barry has committed his life to helping others and bringing about peace through food security and helping people recover from crises and to support nutrition and development in impoverished countries. Yank Barry should be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for all his work to eradicate hunger and for his humanitarian efforts throughout the world to bring about peace, stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.” Yank Barry’s Foundation, Global Village Champions Foundation, has been the first on the ground in many disaster stricken area’s worldwide and has provided food, medical aid, shelter & clothing for the lost and forgotten; breaking through red tape and political barriers to help those most in need. “Because of his tremendous work, I recently recognized him with the Humanitarian Uplift Award on the floor of the United States House of Representatives to honor him for his tremendous work to bring about peace and prosperity as a world humanitarian”, stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Yank Barry singlehandedly spearheaded a never before accomplished mission to rescue over 60 individuals from the deplorable conditions in the refugee camps of Bulgaria.He continues to support the rescued families by providing a “safe-house” where children and their families are given a place to call home, food, medical care, employment, legal assistance, education and other ongoing provisions.He also has been and continues to be instrumental in keeping peace amongst Bulgarian government officials and groups in the Syrian refugee crisis.He has crossed religious and economic boundaries for the helpless victims of the Syrian war; giving new life to Muslims & Christians, as a Jew.His Foundation, Global Village Champions Foundation, and his longtime friend and partner Muhammad Ali have successfully fed nearly 1 billion documented and delivered meals, all privately funded by Mr. Barry. Yank Barry’s tireless work to negotiate with Muammar al-Gadaffi in 2007 to save the lives of the “Benghazi Six” was unprecedented.His efforts spared the lives of four Muslims and two Christians in Libya.As a result, two of them; one doctor and one nurse, now volunteer their time and give their lives to help the Syrian refugee’s in the Global Village Champions Foundation safe-house project in Bulgaria and remain dear friends of Mr. Barry. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee was joined by her congressional colleagues Congressman Al Green of Texas and Danny Davis of Illinois in nominating Yank Barry. # # #
03.26.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced the release of a new report that highlights why raising the minimum wage is key for America’s women. The report was prepared by the National Economic Council, the Council of Economic Advisers, the Domestic Policy Council, and the Department of Labor. “Today’s report confirms the importance of House Democrats’ When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families and its central plank of raising the minimum wage. Currently, women make up nearly two-thirds of minimum-wage workers in this country. As women have become the breadwinners or co-breadwinners in two-thirds of American families, these low wages have increasingly hindered many families’ ability to get ahead. “Americans agree that no one who works full time should ever have to raise a family in poverty. And yet today a single mother with two children, working full-time, year-round, and earning the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour, makes only $14,500 a year, $5,000 below the poverty line. “Congressional Democrats and President Obama are fighting to enact legislation that would raise the minimum wage over three years from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour and index it to inflation hereafter, while also raising the tipped minimum wage for the first time in over 20 years. “Following are some of the key findings of the new report released today: • Women account for more than 70 percent of the workforce in low-wage sectors -- sectors such as personal care and healthcare support occupations. • More than half (55 percent) of the 28 million workers who would benefit from increasing the minimum wage from $7.25 to $10.10 are women. • An even larger majority (72 percent) of the workers who would benefit from raising the tipped minimum wage are also women. • Raising the full minimum wage and the tipped minimum wage would help make progress toward closing the gender pay gap. Currently for every dollar that men earn, women earn just 77 cents. Estimates from the President’s Council of Economic Advisers suggest that increasing the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour and indexing it to inflation could close about 5 percent of the gender wage gap. • Raising the minimum wage will also raise many families out of poverty. “Raising the minimum wage is good for millions of America’s working women and good for America. It will raise the wages of 28 million people, lift millions out of poverty, and fuel demand and economic growth for all Americans. Now is the time to get it done.” ###
03.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding signing a discharge petition to demand a vote on H.R. 15, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act: “With Republicans continuing to block a vote on bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform legislation today I took action to force a vote, signing a ‘Demand A Vote’ petition on the floor of the House earlier today. The petition would force a vote on H.R. 15, the bipartisan Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, legislation that would help secure our border, protect our workers, unite our families, provide an earned pathway to citizenship, and create jobs. “Today, I am demanding a vote on comprehensive immigration reform legislation. It is time for Speaker Boehner to stop blocking this sensible bipartisan reform, and allow a vote to create jobs, empower our small businesses, fuel innovation, reduce the deficit and energize the economy. It is time for us to fix our broken immigration system, and build a system that respects our history and our values as a nation. “It has been almost nine months since the Senate passed its own comprehensive immigration reform legislation by an overwhelming bipartisan margin of 68-32. Comprehensive immigration reform has enjoyed widespread support from law enforcement, faith leaders, the business community and the American people. “A report from the Congressional Budget Office released on Tuesday found that the House legislation, H.R. 15 would reduce the deficit by $900 billion over the next two decades – including $200 in the first decade alone. The bill has 200 co-sponsors, including 3 Republicans. Yet Republican leadership continues to prevent the House from holding a vote on this necessary and popular legislation. “Today, House Democrats are launching a new feature – Dems.gov/TimeIsNow – where anyone can add their name to list if they support the #DemandAVote Petition to force the House to finally take action to fix our broken immigration system.” ###
03.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Founder and Co-Chair of the House Congressional Children’s Caucus and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, has been named a Champion for Children for the 113th Congress by First Focus Campaign for Children (FFCC). The First Focus Campaign for Children is a national bipartisan children’s advocacy organization. As part of their campaign, FFCC recognizes Members of Congress who demonstrate extraordinary initiative by sponsoring legislation and hearings and garnering the support of their colleagues to improve the health, educational outcomes, and well-being of children. Congresswoman Jackson Lee stated, “Our children are the future of America and it is our job as Americans to improve the health and well-being of every child. I strongly believe that our children should be the number one priority in federal policy and budget decisions. The influence that we have in our children is great and I refuse to wait until it is too late. As long as I am a Member of Congress, it is my goal to work with my colleagues and constituents to create the future our children deserve. I will continue to introduce and co-sponsor legislation that put our children in the forefront, so that they are enriched, empowered and educated citizens. I am thankful to be named a Champion for Children; more importantly, I endeavor for our children to be Champions.” ###
03.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, A Senior Member of the House Progressive Caucus, released the following statement regarding the released of the ‘Better Off Budget’ from the Progressive Caucus: “During our economy’s best decades, Congress invested in the American workforce and every family was better off for it. But recent years have been dominated by growing inequality and a Republican majority in Congress obsessed with slashing the budget, making it harder for working Americans to find decent jobs and save for the future. The Congressional Progressive Caucus’ Better Off Budget reverses the damage budget austerity has inflicted on hard-working families and restores our economy to its full potential by creating 8.8 million jobs by 2017. “The Better Off Budget reverses harmful cuts that have hit working families the hardest—starting with repealing across-the-board budget cuts known as the “sequester.” It creates a fairer tax code so that low and middle-income families no longer pay more than they should while the world’s biggest corporation’s benefit from unnecessary loopholes. Our budget reverses harmful pay freezes, expands benefits for federal retirees and strengthens federal health care and retirement programs Americans rely on. “When the federal budget invests resources wisely, we can meet the needs of working families and shrink the deficit. The Better Off Budget not only creates jobs, it reduces the deficit by $4.08 trillion over the next 10 years. It’s the right budget for the country, for working families and for our future.” ### Some highlights of the Better Off Budget Creating Good Jobs – creates 8.8 million jobs by 2017. Long-term Unemployed – provides access to training and employment services to match employee potential with employer demand. Infrastructure – creates jobs in building and construction industries to repair and modernize our ailing roads, bridges and water infrastructure. State Aid – provides assistance to states to allow them to hire and rehire public employees such as police, firefighters and health care workers. Public Works and Education – a direct hire program that includes seven jobs corps to hire physicians, students, construction and community workers and an education program boost to hire more teachers and improve schools. Reversing Harmful Cuts – repeals the Budget Control Act and Sequester, restores Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits, restores unemployment insurance, fully funds the Prevention and Public Health Fund, and ends the federal worker pay freeze. Equity for Women and People of Color – enhances federal programs targeted at creating equity and improving outcomes for women, people of color, and their families. Protecting Veterans and Workers through Retirement –adopts a cost-of-living adjustment that takes into account realistic retiree expenses and fully funds veterans programs in advance.
03.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is taking action to force an up-or-down vote on key legislation that would extend unemployment insurance for more than 2 million Americans. Congresswoman Jackson Lee joined her colleagues in signing a discharge petition to bring up the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (H.R. 3546). The bill extends emergency unemployment insurance for nearly 5 million Americans looking for work through the end of the year. “Now is the time for action on unemployment insurance. The economic crisis suffered from the cutoff of unemployment compensation has continued for 2 months, spread to 2 million Americans, including 105,409 here in Texas, and cost our state’s economy $171,362,151. Despite repeated Democratic efforts, Republicans in Congress have callously refused to restore this vital economic lifeline that helps people support their families and pay their bills while they look for a new job. “The number of people who have lost their unemployment benefits as a result of the program’s Dec. 28 expiration surpassed two million last week, according to a new analysis from Ways and Means Committee Democrats. Every week, 72,000 people, on average, are losing their unemployment benefits nationwide without an extension of the program. “Despite the growing struggles, House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend the program on the House floor. Last month a Senate measure to extend the program came one vote short of the 60 votes necessary to move forward legislation. To overcome this opposition, today Democrats are launching a discharge petition to force action on this widely supported legislation. The discharge petition will require the House to consider the unemployment insurance extension legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed the petition. “With enough pressure, today’s extraordinary step to force a vote on extending emergency employment insurance to support families and grow our local economy will succeed. Action to create jobs and build an economy that works for everyone must start with renewing unemployment insurance for Americans who were laid off in the recession through no fault of their own.” ###
03.05.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement recognizing the 45th Anniversary of the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA): “For 45 years, the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) has led Federal Government efforts to provide focused support to a critical sector of the U.S. economy- our nation’s 5.8 million minority-owned firms. These companies contribute to local economies and provide much needed jobs for Americans of all backgrounds and cultures. They operate in urban centers and rural communities. As we commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the War on Poverty, it is minority-owned firms that are on the front lines. “I applaud MBDA on its 45th Anniversary. Established by executive order, MBDA has worked tirelessly and diligently to promote the growth and global competitiveness of the minority business community. And the results speak for themselves. Over the last five years in particular, MBDA has assisted firms gain access to over $19 billion in contracts and capital resulting in the creation and retention of nearly 60,000 jobs. Since my election to Congress, I have worked closely with the Agency and its MBDA Business Center in Houston to bring hundreds of those jobs to Texas. “In the coming years, the growth of America’s workforce will come from minorities and we need strong minority businesses to achieve maximum economic growth. I am certain MBDA will lead the nation to achieving our full potential.” ###
03.05.2014	March 4, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security, and a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today after introducing H.R. 4112, the “Equal Rights and Access for the Women of South Sudan Act:” “I have introduced H.R. 4112, the “Equal Rights and Access for the Women of South Sudan Act” to promote the human rights of women in South Sudan as that country transitions to a long-term government and to ensure women enjoy the right to participate fully in the political and economic life of the country. “After years of civil war, South Sudan seceded from Sudan through a referendum in 2011. Despite the success of the South Sudanese government in ending years of civil unrest and violence, women in South Sudan continue to face brutal violations of their human rights. A lack of infrastructure as well as gender inequality has the potential to regress much of the progress that has been made in South Sudan. Such a lack of human development factors only furthers the marginalization of women in South Sudan: Inadequate health care has resulted in high maternal and infant mortality rates in South Sudan; the maternal mortality rate is one of the highest in the world with 1,054 deaths per 100,000 live births. Additionally, literacy rates for women are staggeringly low. Over 80% of women and girls in South Sudan are illiterate. The conflict has also begun to compromise the food supply in South Sudan. The danger stemming from the conflict has led some traders to suspend their market presence resulting in food commodity price increases as much as 30 percent in high-conflict regions. “H.R. 4112, the “Equal Rights and Access for the Women of South Sudan Act” puts equal rights and access for the women of South Sudan at the forefront by: Encouraging the appointment of women to high level positions within Republic of South Sudan Government; Ensuring that a significant portion of United States development, humanitarian, and relief assistance is channeled to local and United States-based South Sudanese organizations, particularly South Sudanese women's organizations; Providing long-term financial assistance for primary, secondary, higher, nontraditional, and vocational education for South Sudanese girls, women, boys, and men; Providing financial assistance to build health infrastructure and deliver high-quality comprehensive health care programs, including primary, maternal, child, reproductive, and mental health care; Requiring military training regarding the protection, rights, and particular needs of women and emphasizing that violations of women's rights are intolerable and should be prosecuted; and Taking all necessary steps to ensure that internally displaced South Sudanese women are directly receiving food aid, shelter, relief supplies, and other services from United States-sponsored programs. “As a nation, we should support the Republic of South Sudan in its efforts to become a freer, more equitable society that respects, supports, and endorses the rights of women.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
02.28.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today following the announcement that the Department of Homeland Security is finalizing the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) regulations: “I want to commend the Department of Homeland Security on their work to complete measures established by the passage of PREA in 2003, a bill that received strong bipartisan support. These finalizations include Performance Based National Detention Standards (PBNDS) and the May 2012 Directive on ‘Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention issues by ICE.’ “The finalization of the rule will require additional planning and training for officers and others who work in those detention centers, to include additional standards for audits and compliance with the regulations established. Immigration detention facilities overseen by ICE and holding facilities will be affected by these regulations. “These important implementations protect individuals from sexual abuse in confinement facilities and the step taken by the DHS expresses their commitment to preventing these atrocious acts of abuse entirely.” ###
02.27.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and former Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today regarding the severity of the actions taken against Venezuelan demonstrators: “I am upset by recent news illuminating the harsh crackdown against Venezuelan demonstrators that have left fifteen dead. In addition to these deaths, more than 500 have been arrested in response to these demonstrations, to include opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez. “I join my colleagues of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights in calling upon Venezuelan authorities to protect and defend the human and civil rights of the Venezuelan people. “Additionally, it is of the utmost importance that we call upon all OAS member states to demand that Caracas end the attack on democracy and comply with the Inter-American Charter on Human Rights.” “It is a natural right of all people to be able to stand up and express their feelings without fear of violent reprisal. As Pope Francis has said himself: ‘I sincerely hope the violence and hostility ends as soon as possible, and that the Venezuelan people, beginning with the responsible politicians and institutions, act to foster national reconciliation through mutual forgiveness and sincere dialogue.’ “Let’s move toward ‘forgiveness and sincere dialogue’ to prevent the possibility of more bloodshed in this embattled nation.” ###
02.27.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today condemning the recent terrorist attack responsible for ending the lives of innocent students at the college of Buni Yadi, a secondary school in Yobe state. “On Tuesday, a group of radical Islamist terrorists, Boko Haram, took the lives of more than fifty innocent, unarmed students in another senseless, unspeakable act of terror. In a cycle of continued violence which has claimed the lives of more than 300 people this month, most of which were civilians, Boko Haram has displayed that it is not only sickeningly ruthless, but it is also an organization of condemnable cowardice by targeting the innocent. “I believe it is our duty and the duty of the world to respond to such horrifying terror acts with the extent of our power and to deter the maleficent actions that are all too often carried out by these radical organizations. Students from all over the world, regardless of the tumultuous nature of their political landscape, have the right to achieve an education and to do so without fear of consequence or reprisal. “I strongly urge President Goodluck Jonathan to administer immediate action to avert the potential for these despicable actions in the future and urge him to seek prompt justice for those that were lost in this senseless attack against the Nigerian students. “The students of today are our leaders of tomorrow. If we do not act on a global scale to this counteract this craven behavior by radical organizations attempting to strip away the security of our students, we will not have a future at all. We must act now and act swiftly.” ###
02.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee is taking action to force an up-or-down vote on key legislation that would give at least 25 million Americans a pay raise. Congresswoman Jackson Lee joined her colleagues in signing a discharge petition, led by Congressman Tim Bishop (D-NY), to bring up the Fair Minimum Wage Act (H.R. 1010), championed by Congressman George Miller (D-CA). The bill increases the minimum wage over three years from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour, indexes future annual increases to inflation thereafter, and gradually increases the tipped minimum wage to 70% of the minimum wage. “In America, the land of opportunity, no one who works full time should have to raise their family in poverty,” stated Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “It’s Time to Give Americans a Raise! That is why I am fighting to raise the minimum wage, which would give 1,945,000 hardworking Texans a pay raise, which would generate approximately $4,977,598,000 in additional income here in Texas.” The current minimum wage pays only $14,500 per year, so this increase would lift between 1 million and 4.5 million Americans out of poverty. This is critical to those working hard to support their families. A majority of minimum wage workers are women and the average worker who would get this raise is 35 years old. Further, increasing the minimum wage will help all Americans by growing our economy and creating jobs, generating some $22 billion in increased economic activity and creating 85,000 additional jobs – including 11,000 in Texas. Businesses, like Gap and Costco, have embraced paying a higher minimum wage because it will strengthen their bottom line, with more productive employees, less turnover, and more customers who have more money to spend. Even though a strong majority of Americans support raising the minimum wage, Republicans in Congress are refusing to give it a vote. As a result, today Democrats are launching a discharge petition to force action on this widely supported legislation. The Fair Minimum Wage Act was introduced by Congressman George Miller on March 6, 2013, and has 194 cosponsors, but Republicans have failed to schedule a hearing or a mark-up on the bill. The discharge petition will require the House to consider the minimum wage legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed the petition. “The American people are calling for an economy that works for everyone – where a hard day’s work earns a decent day’s pay and everyone has the opportunity to build a brighter future,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee said. “Congressional Republicans must heed their voices and allow a vote on this proposal to value work and give Americans a raise.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
02.26.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the Arizona LGBT discrimination law: “On Monday, Governor Jan Brewer said she had not decided whether she will veto or sign into law SB1062, the Arizona LGBT discrimination bill. As we all know, Governor Brewer has until Friday to make her decision. “SB1062 is wrong for Arizona and America. Arizona is like America, a diverse and inclusive state, and this discriminatory bill is not consistent with the values of America. In the 5 days since the bill was passed by right-wing Republicans in the Arizona Legislature, over eighty companies in Arizona have come out in opposition to SB1062 and have urged Governor Brewer to veto this bill. Apple, American Airlines and Marriot Hotels are just a few of the companies who have called on the Governor to veto the law and who do not want to operate in a state which has legalized discrimination laws in their books. You cannot have a law that lifts up the 1st Amendment while literally abolishing the 14th Amendment. The Governor should listen to the people of Arizona and veto this bill. Let’s not go backwards but forwards. This bill is not an example of what America is truly about. “I join the business community, the people of Arizona and proponents of equality throughout the country who are calling on Governor Brewer to veto SB1062 immediately. Veto SB1062 Governor Brewer and save Arizona from further years of economic hardship.” ###
02.24.2014	Saturday, February 22, 2014 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the current situation of war torn Syria after her visit to the city of Kuneitra where she witness mortar firing: “After almost three years of continuous bloodshed, the crisis in Syria has reached a decisive moment. I witnessed that first hand after my visit today to the city of Kuneitra. Kuneitra is within the portion of the Golan Heights controlled by Syria. Syria today is the scene of some of the worst state-sponsored violence since Milosevic’s war crimes in the Balkans. And the bloodshed continues, with no end in sight. We now have a raging war in Syria and an international response is needed immediately. The bloodshed in Syria is unacceptable we must remain committed to peacefully resolving a civil war that has claimed about 1540,000 Syrian lives and displaced hundreds of thousands of women and children. “What is all the more astonishing is that Dr. Assad’s killing spree has continued despite severe and escalating international pressure against him. Despite three year’s worth of diplomacy backed by sanctions, Assad and his lieutenants show no signs of giving up. To the contrary, they appear to be accelerating their fight to the finish. Unfortunately, with each passing day, the international response to Assad’s atrocities is being overtaken by events on the ground in Syria. “Some countries are beginning to confront this reality, as well as its implications. Syrians themselves are increasingly calling for international intervention, including military assistance. Our current policy is not succeeding, and the current course is no longer strategically or morally sustainable. “I believe the United States and its allies must act now. We can actually respond without putting boots on the ground but this bloodshed must stop now. As we continue to isolate Assad diplomatically and economically, we should work with our closest friends and allies to support opposition groups inside Syria, both political and military, to help them organize themselves into a more cohesive and effective force that can put an end to the bloodshed and force Assad and his loyalists to leave power, which has been the goal of United States policy since August 2011. “I am calling for immediate relief and the immediate resignation of Dr. Assad and his Cabinet and they must immediately leave the country but Allies must ensure the safety for all those that remain within Syrian borders. The Syrian people deserve a chance at freedom, and shame on us if we fail to help them now in their moment of greatest need.” ###
02.24.2014	Houston, TX - The Southmore Station Post Office at 4110 Almeda, was the historic site of a 1960 civil rights demonstration that became Houston's first sit-in. A few weeks back, concerned citizens spoke passionately about the significant historical aspect of this Post Offices has to Houston and more importantly the neighborhood. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee made it very clear that she would be working with her constituents and the Postal Advisory Committee to make sure this Post Office does not close. WHAT: Press Conference to save the Historic Southmore Post Office WHEN: Monday, February 24, 2014 at 1:00 PM WHO: The Honorable Sheila Jackson Lee and other Community Leaders WHERE: Southmore Post Office 4110 Almeda Rd Houston, TX 77004 ###
02.18.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after receiving a report stating that since millions of Americans have lost their unemployment benefits it is possible that the U.S. economy could lose $3 billion in January and February alone: “Since the failure to extend unemployment insurance to the tens of thousands of Texans and the now 1.8 million unemployed workers nationally that lost their unemployment insurance, I have introduced two important bills that will help these struggling Americans get back on their feet: H.R. 3888, the “New Chance for a New Start in Life Act” and H.R. 3773, the “Unemployment Benefits Extension Act.” Failure to pass the important legislation I have proposed will only damage a recovering economy by pulling more than $3 billion out of it. In Texas alone, $171 million has been lost due to a failure to act. Continuing to not act will also leave millions of Americans without the support they so desperately need while trying find a job. “I will always be a steadfast and dedicated leader in the fight to extend unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who have worked hard, played by the rules, and lost their job through no fault of their own. I have introduced H.R. 3888 - the ‘New Chance for a New Start in Life Act’ provides a means for training the long-term unemployed to fill the high-demand positions of the future. This bill creates a conduit for the long-term unemployed to receive grants that can be used to receive the crucial training that can undoubtedly afford them a new start after months of unsuccessful attempts at getting jobs. Additionally, these grants do not impact the individual’s current unemployment compensation benefits. This training will prepare them specifically for labor fields of projected growth, like health care, social assistance and construction sectors. It will empower people that want to work by giving them the skills necessary to succeed. “Additionally, I have also introduced H.R. 3773 – the ‘Unemployed Jobhunters Protection and Assistance Act of 2013,’ which extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) for 12 months, until January 1, 2015. For many Americans, this extension is a necessity of life. This action would not be necessary had the House adopted the amendment offered by the Democrats which have extended these unemployment benefits. I strongly supported that alternative because we should not be depriving hard working job hunters of this compensation. This is NOT a partisan issue: The Emergency Unemployment Compensation program was signed into law in 2008 by President Bush when the unemployment rate was 5.6 percent and the average duration of unemployment was 17 weeks. Today – after the last two good months of job growth – the unemployment rate is 7 percent and the average spell is 36 weeks. Long-term unemployment has been growing because the job market remains so bad. “We cannot stand by while millions of Americans lose crucial unemployment benefits, while billions of dollars are pulled out of our fragile economy, and while America is counting on Congress more than ever to provide meaningful, necessary changes. These important pieces of legislation provide a path to change that, if adopted, will rid our country of this irresponsible loss and provide benefits that will grant opportunity to those that need it the most.” ###
02.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announces a new report provided by the Department of Health and Human Services that finds that nearly 8 in 10 uninsured Latinos may qualify for critical health services through the Marketplace. “Today the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released a report that finds that that nearly 8 in 10 uninsured Latinos may qualify for Medicaid, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), or lower costs on monthly premiums through the Health Insurance Marketplace. If all states took advantage of new opportunities to expand Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act, 95 percent of uninsured Latinos might qualify for Medicaid, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), or tax credits to help with the cost of premiums in the Marketplace. This is especially important in our home state of Texas, with one of the largest Latino populations in the United States and nearly no state participation in the Affordable Care Act. “The health care law addresses longstanding inequalities that have affected minority communities across the nation, especially in Texas, including lack of access to affordable health insurance coverage. However, with the Affordable Care Act, 10.2 million uninsured Latinos have the opportunity to purchase quality, affordable coverage through the Marketplace, and as many as 8 million of those could get a break on costs. “According to today’s report, 1 in 4 uninsured individuals who are eligible for the Marketplace nationwide are Latino (10.2 million out of 41.3 million individuals). The majority (62 percent) live in California, in our state of Texas, and Florida; about half (4.6 million or 46 percent) are between the ages of 18 and 35. “Among those Latinos who are eligible for Marketplace coverage nationwide, about 3.9 million may be eligible for lower costs on monthly premiums, and 4.2 million may be eligible for Medicaid or CHIP. The report details rates of uninsured by state and provides several examples of what premiums might look like for Latinos living in major metropolitan areas. In Houston, Texas, he or she could pay as little as $99 after factoring in premium tax credits. “The majority (63 percent) of uninsured Hispanic Americans who are eligible for coverage in the Marketplace either speak English as a first language, or “very well” as a second language. About one-third (37 percent) rely on Spanish, and 27 percent live in a household without an English-speaking adult present. This is why from the beginning HHS’s outreach has been a bilingual effort. Since October 1, the diverse Latino community has had access to multiple resources to help with enrollment in the Marketplace, including applying by phone with trained call center staff offering bilingual help, or in person with trained specialists in local communities. “Latinos can enroll in Spanish through CuidadodeSalud.gov where consumers can create accounts, complete an online application, and shop for health plans that fit their budget and needs. “As more Americans become insured through the Marketplace, it is important that we continue to urge American Latinos to take advantage of the unequivocal healthcare benefits so that we may lessen the population of the uninsured in the United States. Additionally, we must put immense pressure on the Texas state governments to comply and adopt policies and programs established by the Affordable Healthcare Act so that our state is on the right side of history and the right side of the people.” ###
02.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after House Republican leadership announced a plan to bring a clean bill to lift the debt ceiling up for a vote: “The Fourteenth Amendment to our Constitution declares that ‘the validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law…shall not be questioned.’ That has always been the standard upheld and advocated by House Democrats. “The Democratic Caucus has constantly conveyed its support for a clean bill to lift the debt ceiling. Now, we have been informed that the Republican leadership will bring such legislation to the floor tomorrow. This action is consistent with the intent of our Constitution and with the best interests of the American people. “When this measure passes, Congress will state unequivocally that the full faith and credit of the United States is not in doubt. I thank the Democratic Leadership for never wavering from this position and for standing firm on behalf of all Americans.” # # #
02.06.2014	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, who today joined Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and faith leaders from around the country for the National Day of Prayer to End Poverty and Income Inequality, released the following statement: “It is unacceptable that nearly 46 million people in our country live in poverty, and nearly 16 million of them are children. In communities of color, poverty rates are even worse. A staggering 27% of African Americans are living in poverty. This country’s policies and programs addressing poverty have not kept pace with the growing needs of millions of Americans. It is time we make the commitment to confront poverty head-on, create pathways out of poverty and provide opportunities for all. “From 1967 to 2012, the poverty rate fell from 26% to 16%, taking into account the safety net. But fifty years later, our nation’s fight to stamp out poverty remains unfinished. Today, all too many Americans still live on the outskirts of hope, struggling under stagnant wages, widening income inequality, and a growing deficit of opportunity. That is why Democrats, led by President Obama, have made rebuilding our economy to work for all Americans our primary mission. “That is why today I am fighting to restore emergency unemployment insurance for the 1.4 million Americans still searching for work, who are cut off from this critical lifeline. These temporary emergency benefits helped keep 600,000 children out of poverty in 2012, and 11 million Americans out of poverty since the recession began. I am working to increase the minimum wage to $10.10, which would result in a pay raise for an estimated 30 million Americans and lift more than 4.5 million hardworking Americans out of poverty. “Also to alleviate poverty amongst our children we need high-quality early education which is one of the most important opportunities we can give our children. A solid early learning foundation helps children succeed later in school, helps America compete in a global market and gives all Americans an equal opportunity to succeed in life. Today, 70 percent of families with children include two working parents or one unmarried working parent. Working parents need access to good early education and child care for their children to help prepare them for school. “Our nation needs a coordinated and comprehensive plan to bring an end to poverty in America. It is morally right, economically sound, and fiscally prudent. It is beyond time that we put the ongoing crisis of poverty on the front burner for this country. Yet, the draconian sequester and harmful budget cuts to vital human needs programs made things worse for struggling families. Cutting programs that provide critical housing, support the economy and maintain jobs is not how we reduce deficits or balance our budgets. “We must continue to support policies that create jobs, lift the most vulnerable and working poor out of poverty, and build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class. And we must do so in a way that creates economic growth by allowing families to raise and educate their children and when every full time job pays a good living wage.” ###
02.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement on House Republicans' legislative agenda this week, which is focused on partisan bills instead of critical issues including ensuring America can pay its bills, renewing unemployment insurance, and raising the minimum wage: “The challenges facing our nation are great, but House Republicans’ legislative agenda this week does not rise to meet them. House Republicans are acting as though the clock is not running out on paying our nation’s bills, and they have not taken action to restore emergency unemployment insurance for 1.7 million Americans or to raise the minimum wage so that millions can secure a place in our middle class. Instead of addressing these pressing issues that will impact our economy and the well-being of our people for years to come, Republicans are wasting time on partisan legislation. “The natural resources bills on the Floor this week are largely Republican proposals repackaged together in a way that breaks from how we have worked together on this issue in the past. One of the three bills – a complex change to California water law – has not even been reviewed by its committee of jurisdiction. This is not how Congress ought to work. Let us set these partisan bills aside and turn to the pressing matters at hand: extending emergency unemployment insurance for those who desperately need it, giving American workers the raise they deserve, and making sure our nation meets its obligations by responsibly paying its bills. “Every week Congress fails to restore emergency unemployment insurance, another 72,000 Americans who are seeking work, on average, will be dropped from this assistance. In Texas, 64,000 residents and the 1.3 million unemployed workers nationally lost their unemployment insurance in December. As long as Congress continues to ignore the minimum wage issue, which is critically important to the 28 million employees who would see their incomes rise if the minimum wage were increased to $10.10 an hour, hard-working Americans will struggle on the edge of poverty in spite of working full time. And the current suspension of the debt limit will end this Friday, requiring the Treasury Department to employ extraordinary measures once again in order to delay a catastrophic default. “Democrats are ready to work with Republicans in a bipartisan way to achieve all three of these goals without delay.” ###
02.06.2014	February 4, 2014 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee released the following statement regarding her meeting yesterday at the White House with the President to discuss the new clemency initiative announced by the Department of Justice: “The United States incarcerates nearly 25 percent of the world’s inmates, even though it only has 5 percent of the world’s population. Thirty years ago, there were less than 30,000 inmates in the federal system; today, there are nearly 216,000, an increase of 800 percent. No other country imprisons a larger percentage of its population than the United States or spends anywhere near the $6.5 billion that we spend annually on prison administration. “The executive clemency initiative announced by the Department of Justice this week is a welcome and exciting development. I am pleased that the Department of Justice is actively soliciting the assistance of state and local bar associations, civil rights organizations, and the criminal defense bar in identifying and assisting potential candidates in assembling commutation petitions which effectively present the information the Department and the President need to meaningfully consider the requested grant of clemency. “As a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary and a former long-time member of its Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, I recently had a conversation with the President regarding this important initiative and he was very receptive and supportive when it came to moving this initiative forward. I have written various organizations such as the NAACP, National Bar Association, National Urban League, Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and the National Legal Aid and Defender Association to request their assistance and participation regarding this important new initiative being undertaken by the U.S. Department of Justice to address the prison overpopulation crisis. “I introduced H.R.265, the Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2009 which would have eliminated the five-year mandatory minimum prison term for first-time possession of crack cocaine. In 2010, Congress passed the Fair Sentencing Act and repealed some of the mandatory sentences that were instated in the 1980s, when there was a crackdown on these offenses. But the problem with the 2010 law is that it doesn't apply retroactively, which is why some of these people seen as unfairly sentenced might need pardon now. It is important to note that candidates for clemency would include inmates who have had clean records in prison, do not present a threat to public safety and are facing excessive sentences. This push toward clemency brings attention to a larger systemic problem: harsh mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses.” ###
02.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement on the passing of Joan Mondale, wife of former vice-president Walter Mondale: “The arts have known few greater champions than Joan Mondale. She was a gifted artist and leading voice for the importance of cultural enrichment in American life. “Her devotion to the arts was exceeded only by her devotion to her husband, Vice President Walter Mondale. Across more than four decades in public life, Walter and Joan’s dedication to each other and to the nation they served never dimmed. “Our hearts and prayers go out to Vice President Mondale, and the whole Mondale family, and we hope that it brings some comfort to know that so many mourn with them at this sad time.” # # #
01.31.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, released the following statement regarding the tragic shooting at Palm Bay campus of Eastern Florida State College and why we need more gun safety laws in America: “There are no words to express the horror of the senseless violence today at a place that should be a safe place of learning. My heart aches as a parent and someone who visits my local universities and interacts with the students and it is hard to think of what the family of the victim must be going through. My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victim of this tragedy and I know everyone will come together to help the community in this time of need. It is now time to move past gun special interest and make gun laws to protect our children who are the most vulnerable. “For over 10 years in many sessions of Congress I have introduced the HR 227, the Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act. I have been an advocate for more gun safety laws in America since I have arrived here in Congress. In one year on average, almost 100,000 people in America are shot or killed with a gun. Over a million people have been killed with guns in the United States since 1968. U.S. homicide rates are 6.9 times higher than rates in 22 other populous high-income countries combined, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. In order to promote safety for our children it is imperative this Congress brings to the House floor NOW the following gun safety laws: An immediate ban on all assault weapons The closing of the gun show loopholes A more structured mental health support system for families that will allow them to get immediate assistance in regards to mental issues. There should be some pathway in which families can acknowledge mental issues within their family and seek public funded or private counseling services immediately. Expanding state laws holding adults responsible for securing their weapons. “This Congress must rise above partisan politics and now come together to pass important gun safety laws. The safety of America should be at the forefront when it comes to making these gun safety laws. The politics of outside groups like the NRA should not play a factor when we consider the safety of our citizens. We must also look at gun violence in other cities too such as Chicago where over the last few years a number of school age kids have been killed with guns. “If there is even one step we can take to save another child, or another parent, or another town, from the grief that has visited Tucson, and Aurora, and Oak Creek, and Oregon and Newtown, and communities from Columbine to Blacksburg, Purdue University and now Palm Bay campus of Eastern Florida State College -- then this Congress surely has an obligation to try.” ###
01.31.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security, and a senior member and former Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, released the following statement today regarding the issuance by House Republicans of their Standards for Immigration Reform”: “I welcome the unified action today of House Republicans acknowledging the urgent need for a comprehensive immigration reform and their expressed willingness to work in a bipartisan manner to fix the problem. For nearly twenty years, as a senior member and former Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, and the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security, I have been working to secure the nation’s borders and reform our broken immigration system to make it fairer and more humane. There is no reason why Democrats and Republicans cannot work together on a bipartisan basis to achieve both of these goals at the same time. “America’s borders are dynamic, with constantly evolving security challenges. Border security must be undertaken in a manner that allows actors to use pragmatism and common sense. And as shown by the success of the bipartisan “Border Security Results Act” (H.R. 1417), which I sponsored with the senior leaders of the House Homeland Security, we can do this without putting the nation at risk or rejecting our national heritage as a welcoming and generous nation. This legislation has been incorporated in H.R. 15, the bipartisan “Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act,” legislation which reflects nearly all of the core principles announced today by House Republicans and should be the foundation of our legislative efforts to find common ground and fix our broken immigration system. “Perhaps at no point in the last two decades has the time been better to enact comprehensive immigration reform and border security legislation, not just for the sake of the millions of undocumented individuals in this country, but also for the security of our borders and our Nation. If we are to seize this historic opportunity, we need everyone, including the Unites States Congress, President Obama, the Department of Homeland Security, and key stakeholders, to get in the game to ensure that we have in place adequate systems and resources to secure our borders while at the same preserving America’s character as the most open and welcoming country in the history of the world. “The action taken today by the House Republicans is a welcome development in this effort. But it is only a start.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.29.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement today regarding amicus curiae briefs which she and 90 House Democrats filed with the United States Supreme Court in the cases of Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby Stores and Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp. v Sebelius. The briefs urge the Supreme Court to uphold the contraceptive coverage requirement in the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “The contraceptive coverage requirement in the Affordable Care Act furthers the compelling governmental interests in promoting public health and gender equality and does not substantial burden the exercise of religion,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. In 1965, the Supreme Court decided Griswold v. Connecticut, which held that access to contraceptives is a constitutionally protected right and, along with the landmark 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade, helped secure the right for women to make private reproductive decisions. “In 2014, we should not be taking steps against the tide of progress and liberty, but rather we should be working to balance these freedoms with other long-standing principles of our nation,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “My colleagues and I strongly believe that the contraceptive coverage requirement does not violate the free exercise of religion and will ensure that all Americans receive vital preventive health care services.” The amicus brief filed with the Supreme Court details how the legislative history of the ACA supports the conclusion that the contraceptive coverage requirement of the ACA satisfies the test applicable to a free exercise of religion challenge under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA). As the amicus brief notes: “The contraceptive coverage requirement does not . . . compel the Corporations to administer or use the contraceptive methods to which they object, nor does it require them to adhere to, affirm, or abandon a particular belief.” The contraceptive coverage requirement maintains constitutional guarantees of reproductive privacy rights while also maintaining the integrity of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. “Congress should not be in the business of unduly infringing upon women’s health and private reproductive rights,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “We have not come this far in establishing women’s equality to turn back the hands of time.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.24.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Democratic Women’s Caucus, released the following statement regarding the statement by a former Republican Governor regarding women and their libido: “The comments yesterday by a Republican Governor about a woman’s libido were totally out of line. It is increasingly evident that the only women’s agenda that the Republicans have put forward is to take away your health care rights and then tell you to get lost. Women are sick and tired of these constant attacks on our constitutionally-protected right to choose, while priorities like equal pay, fair wages, and paid family leave go unaddressed. If Republicans in Washington have any hope of repairing their relationship with American women, they need to turn away from these anti-choice bills and start helping American women with the kitchen table issues important to them. “Instead of putting forward a real economic agenda for women and families, Republicans are once again wasting Americans’ time, tax dollars, and patience with more attacks on women’s health. Last week, the all-male Republicans on the House Judiciary Subcommittee marked up legislation which would make sweeping restrictions on women’s health options across the country. “Republicans next week will bring to the floor H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, at a time when more pressing bipartisan work is needed on the women’s legislative agenda. According to the Shriver Report recently released 42 million women, and an additional 28 million children either live in or on the brink of poverty – we should be focusing on issues such as that. “H.R. 7 is a sweeping anti-choice bill would not only deny premium tax credits to income-eligible men, women and families under the Affordable Care Act, but it would also impose unprecedented tax penalty on individuals and small business employers who use their own money to pay for abortion or insurance related to abortion coverage. “Most importantly, H.R. 7 fails to address the need for access to abortion coverage for a woman whose health is seriously threatened by a pregnancy and may need an abortion to protect her health, but may not be in danger of imminent death. This denial of abortion coverage will undoubtedly put some women’s health at serious risk. “When you have a subcommittee that is 100 percent male considering legislation restricting women’s rights and denying a woman Member of Congress, Eleanor Holmes Norton, the ability to testify on that legislation, it is pretty clear what the Republicans intend to do – roll back the reproductive rights of women. “America’s women deserve better than eight Republican men trying to dictate and control the most intimate medical decisions in their lives. We should be holding hearings on issues that really matter to the women of this nation; our women’s economic agenda to unleash the full potential of America’s women with equal pay, paid family and sick leave, and affordable child care for all. “Just as past generations of women have demanded equality, so too must a new generation of American women be bold. In Congress today there are more than 60 women Members of the House Democratic Caucus – the most in history – and we are heeding the call to address the pressing issues confronting women today.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.23.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement in reference to the State of Texas imposing tough regulations on ‘Navigators’ - people who will help the pubic buy insurance in the marketplaces: “I believe the actions of the State of Texas and TDI constitute an impermissible state infringement and interference with the operation of the health insurance exchange established pursuant to federal law in violation of the Supremacy Clause of Article VI of the of the U.S. Constitution. The state of Texas could have established its own health insurance exchange but refused due to the opposition of the governor and other state officials. Navigators are entities or organizations authorized by the Affordable Care Act to assist consumers seeking to apply for health insurance through a health benefit exchange. “The Affordable Care Act is about securing affordable, quality and accessible health care as a right, not a privilege, for every American; yet it is also about wellness and prevention, economic security and entrepreneurship, the well-being of working families and the strength of the middle class. In short, this historic law is about a healthier America. We are now in the midst of changes that put health care in reach for all. Existing plans with larger employers are maintained and improved. Just as in the past, if you like your doctor, you can choose to stay with your doctor. “Republican efforts to sabotage the implementation of the Affordable Care Act would directly undermine these key reforms, by interfering with Navigators helping consumers find the coverage that is right for them, or discouraging young Americans from signing up, or refusing Medicaid expansion and relying on uncompensated care through emergency rooms and other providers. The end result being higher costs for lower quality across the country. Every day, thousands of Americans are signing up for health insurance because of the health care law, the website is improving, and we are moving forward. Republicans should stop rooting for the health care law to fail, build on what works, fix what doesn't and work with the President to restore security for middle class families.” ###
01.23.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee urges the implementation of the voting and registration procedural changes recommended to the President by the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. The bipartisan Commission was established to identify best practices and otherwise make recommendations to promote the efficient administration of elections in order to ensure that all eligible voters have the opportunity to cast their ballots without delay, and to improve the experience of voters facing other obstacles in casting their ballots, such as members of the military, overseas voters, voters with disabilities, and voters with limited English proficiency. “The bipartisan Commission unanimously concluded that issues surrounding election administration are ‘identifiable and solvable.’ A comprehensive list of targeted recommendations and administrative best practices both highlights current problem areas in election administration and means by which to correct them. The Commission also concluded that no one should have to wait in line to vote for more than 30 minutes, a result that could be achieved by implementing the corrections outlined in the report. “Additionally, the report detailed a myriad of other important issues surrounding voting administration, problems that, if solved, would enable American voters in unprecedented ways. For example, the expansion of online voter registration would streamline outdated and inefficient registration processes. Interstate exchanges of voter registration lists would improve accuracy, increase registration rates, lower cost and prevent voter fraud. Increasing options for voting prior to Election Day would assist in congestion at the ballot box. Placing polling stations close to where voters live and enhancing training would contribute the voting process running more smoothly. Some of these simple changes would make huge differences for American voters and their implementation is critical. “Today, with the efficiency of modern technology and the internet, we have the means by which to streamline the voting process in the United States. This critical report has outlined a path to making the necessary changes to voting administration. Now, more than ever, we require the implementation of these observations so that one of our most precious American rights, the right to vote, is upheld and preserved for voters now and those of future generations.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the safety and security of U.S. athletes scheduled to compete in the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia, beginning February 6: “With less than three weeks from the Opening Ceremony of the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia, I am concerned about the overall security for the Olympians who will be soon participating in these historic games. “The safety and security of Team USA must be our top priority. It is therefore of vital importance that the U.S. Department of State, the International Olympic Committee (IOC), the Host Committee, and law enforcement agencies work cooperatively and in concert to ensure that the safety of the American Olympic delegation and other Americans traveling to Sochi. The briefings I have received from the intelligence community lead me to conclude that we should be doing more in this regard. “For this reason, I call upon Speaker Boehner and Democratic Leader Pelosi to take all appropriate actions necessary to ensure that Members of Congress are afforded the opportunity to meet, in small groups and in secure locations, with senior members of the Administration’s national security team who can answer detailed and pointed questions and provide requested information regarding the measures, actions, and resources employed to ensure the security of the Sochi Olympic Games. “The adequacy of security precautions for the 2014 Sochi Olympics, long a major concern, is especially urgent given the recent disclosure of a video purportedly made by suspected terrorists from the Dagestan region in Russia threatening to disrupt the Sochi Olympics. This past weekend it was reported that authorities are looking for as many as four female terrorists from that region – the so-called “Black Widows” - who might be planning an attack inside Sochi. We must remember that the Boston Marathon bombers had ties to Dagestan. “I commend Russian President Vladimir Putin for making the security of the Sochi Olympics his highest priority. I am confident that he would welcome the assistance and cooperation of the United States and other countries in ensuring that the Sochi Olympiad is the safest and most secure Olympiad in history. I want very much to assure my constituents that it is safe to travel to Sochi and attend the Olympic Games. “This is a very special time in the lives of our athletes, and I want nothing but the most positive things to be coming their way as they participate in these historic games. Our athletes are not ignoring the reality of the real world. We must remember that our Olympic athletes are extremely focused on their performance, their training, their preparation, and about the safety of their families who will be traveling with them to witness the Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia. This undoubtedly will be a special moment for their families as well. I look forward to an exciting yet safe Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.22.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement regarding the need for legislative reform and increased congressional oversight of the National Security Agency and its controversial surveillance program that collects millions of Americans' telephone records: “The steady trickle of revelations that began in June about the NSA surveillance program has revealed alarming details about what appears to be the most intrusive and secretive program in American history. “As a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security, I have worked for years to ensure that our national policies and programs strike the proper balance between security and liberty. “Clearly increased congressional oversight and legislative reforms are required. One such reform is to limit the number of private, for-profit contractors engaged in the conduct of intelligence activities. I agree with the President when stated publicly on August 6, 2013 that it is important that the intelligence community ‘reduce the reliance on contractors.” I share the concern expressed by the President over whether we should “be farming that much stuff out,’ particularly when we have so many ‘extraordinarily capable folks in our military and our government who can do this, and probably do it cheaper.’ “That is why earlier this year I introduced H.R. 2434, “Civilian Contractors Engaged in Intelligence Activities Reduction Act of 2013,” which requires the Secretary of Defense to conduct a study to ascertain the extent to which contractors are used in the conduct of intelligence activities and the type of information to which such contractors are exposed or have access. This bill also requires the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress a report containing the results of the study and a plan for reducing by 25 percent the number of contractors to the Department of Defense with top secret security clearances that are engaged in intelligence activities (including intelligence analysis) by December 2014. “I have also introduced H.R. 2440, the “Sunshine in the FISA Court Act,” which would require the Attorney General to disclose each decision, order, or opinion of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, including decisions involving significant interpretations of sections 501 or 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA Act). “I am an original co-sponsor of H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act, bipartisan and bicameral legislation which, if adopted, will rein in the dragnet collection of data by the National Security Agency (NSA) and other government agencies, increase transparency of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), provide businesses the ability to release information regarding FISA requests, and create an independent constitutional advocate to argue cases before the FISC. “The NSA plays a critically important role in the effort to keep our nation safe. But its activities must be conducted in a manner that is faithful to our national values and ideals. These are not conflicting objectives. We can achieve both. But to do so, major reforms are needed. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Administration to enact the needed reforms.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary, where for many years she was a member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Homeland Security, and Terrorism. She is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security. The Congresswoman is available for interviews. To arrange an interview, contact Mike McQuerry at 202-225-7080 or Mike.McQuerry@mail.house.gov.
01.22.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, released the following statement regarding the tragic shooting at Purdue University and why we need more gun safety laws in America: “There are no words to express the horror of the senseless violence today at a place that should be a safe place of learning. My heart aches as a parent and someone who visits my local universities and interacts with the students and it is hard to think of what the family of the victim must be going through. My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victim of this tragedy and I know everyone will come together to help the community in this time of need. “For over 10 years in many sessions of Congress I have introduced the HR 227, the Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act. I have been an advocate for more gun safety laws in America since I have arrived here in Congress. In one year on average, almost 100,000 people in America are shot or killed with a gun. Over a million people have been killed with guns in the United States since 1968. U.S. homicide rates are 6.9 times higher than rates in 22 other populous high-income countries combined, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. In order to promote safety for our children it is imperative this Congress brings to the House floor NOW the following gun safety laws: 1. An immediate ban on all assault weapons 2. The closing of the gun show loopholes 3. A more structured mental health support system for families that will allow them to get immediate assistance in regards to mental issues. There should be some pathway in which families can acknowledge mental issues within their family and seek public funded or private counseling services immediately. 4. Expanding state laws holding adults responsible for securing their weapons. “This Congress must rise above partisan politics and now come together to pass important gun safety laws. The safety of America should be at the forefront when it comes to making these gun safety laws. The politics of outside groups like the NRA should not play a factor when we consider the safety of our citizens. We must also look at gun violence in other cities too such as Chicago where over the last few years a number of school age kids have been killed with guns. “If there is even one step we can take to save another child, or another parent, or another town, from the grief that has visited Tucson, and Aurora, and Oak Creek, and Oregon and Newtown, and communities from Columbine to Blacksburg before that and now Purdue University -- then this Congress surely has an obligation to try.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Homeland Security and the Judiciary, where for many years she was a member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Homeland Security, and Terrorism. She is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
01.17.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the introduction of H.R. 3899, “Voting Rights Amendments Act of 2014,” bipartisan and bicameral legislation to repair the damage to the Voting Rights Act resulting from the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder, 570 U.S. 2 (2013), which invalidated the formula used to determine jurisdictions subject to the “pre-clearance” requirements of Section 5 of the Act: “From that sad day in June when the Supreme Court issued its decision in the Shelby County v. Holder case striking down Section 4(b) of the Voting Rights Act, my efforts have been singularly focused on crafting a new coverage formula that can pass constitutional muster and win the support of bipartisan majorities in Congress. “The bipartisan “Voting Rights Amendments Act of 2014,” (H.R. 3899), introduced today is the product of many months of hard work, consultation, and negotiations the bill’s sponsors with colleagues across the aisle and with key stakeholders. As a senior member of the Judiciary Committee a representative of the largest southern state, I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this historic legislation. “The Voting Rights Act of 1965 is no ordinary piece of legislation. For millions of Americans, and many of us in Congress, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 is a sacred treasure, earned by the sweat and toil and tears and blood of ordinary Americans who showed the world it was possible to accomplish extraordinary things. “As an heir of the Civil Rights Movement, a beneficiary of the Voting Rights Act, and one of only one of three African-American women from Texas to serve in the Congress of the United States, and Judiciary Committee member, I worked to pass the 2006 legislation that strengthened and reauthorized the Voting Rights Act. “The Shelby County decision presented a grave challenge to those of us who believe in the sanctity of the right to vote. The legislation introduce today, while not perfect, represents an important step forward because it both is responsive to the concern expressed by the Supreme Court and establishes a new coverage formula that is carefully tailored but sufficiently potent to protect the voting rights of all Americans. “While it is true that the new coverage formula results in fewer covered jurisdictions than before, the legislation contains several key provisions that are consistent with the needs created by a narrower Section 5 trigger. For example, the legislation: expands the judicial “bail-in” provision of Section 3 so that it applies to voting changes that result in discrimination, whether intentional or not; discrimination). requires nationwide transparency of “late breaking” voting changes, allocation of poll place resources, and changes within the boundaries of voting districts; clarifies and relaxes the showing needed to obtain a preliminary injunction to prevent voting discrimination; and expands the authority of the Attorney General to send election observers to protect against voting discrimination. “It should be emphasized that the Voting Rights Act is intended to protect the right to vote of all Americans regardless of race, ethnicity, or nationality, including language minorities. I look forward to working with my colleagues and others to ensure the legislation ultimately passed by the House and Senate effectively guarantees and protects the votings rights of all Americans." ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Democratic Women’s Caucus, released the following statement at today’s Press Conference highlighting the Republican agenda to roll back women’s reproductive rights and certain health programs and initiatives: “Instead of putting forward a real economic agenda for women and families, Republicans are once again wasting Americans’ time, tax dollars, and patience with more attacks on women’s health. This morning, the all-male Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee will markup legislation which would make sweeping restrictions on women’s health options across the country. “Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee seek to focus on H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, in a time when more pressing bipartisan work is needed on the women’s legislative agenda. According to the Shriver Report recently released 42 million women, and an additional 28 million children either live in or on the brink of poverty – we should be focusing on issues such as that. “H.R. 7 is a sweeping anti-choice bill would not only deny premium tax credits to income-eligible men, women and families under the Affordable Care Act, but it would also impose unprecedented tax penalty on individuals and small business employers who use their own money to pay for abortion or insurance related to abortion coverage. “Most importantly, H.R. 7 fails to address the need for access to abortion coverage for a woman whose health is seriously threatened by a pregnancy and may need an abortion to protect her health, but may not be in danger of imminent death. This denial of abortion coverage will undoubtedly put some women’s health at serious risk. “The American people are waiting for the House to act on critical national issues like extending unemployment insurance, raising the minimum wage, and passing comprehensive immigration reform, but Republicans cannot move past their backward obsession with rolling back women’s health care rights. In America, women still earn 78 cents for every dollar men make and women are forced to choose between caring for a sick child and their job, and millions of women and their families lack access to quality, affordable child care. “When you have a subcommittee that is 100 percent male considering legislation restricting women’s rights and denying a woman Member of Congress, Eleanor Holmes Norton, the ability to testify on that legislation, it is pretty clear what the Republicans intend to do – roll back the reproductive rights of women. “America’s women deserve better than eight Republican men trying to dictate and control the most intimate medical decisions in their lives. We should be holding hearings on issues that really matter to the women of this nation; our women’s economic agenda to unleash the full potential of America’s women with equal pay, paid family and sick leave, and affordable child care for all. “Just as past generations of women have demanded equality, so too must a new generation of American women be bold. In Congress today there are more than 60 women Members of the House Democratic Caucus – the most in history – and we are heeding the call to address the pressing issues confronting women today.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
01.06.2014	Jackson Lee: “Behind the grim statistics are the heartbreaking stories of real persons struggling to get by and who need the unemployment insurance benefits they have earned to pay rent and utilities, buy food, and provide for their families” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the sponsor of “Unemployed Jobhunters Protection and Assistance Act” (H.R. 3773), released the text of a letter sent to the bipartisan Congressional leadership urging that a vote on her legislation, or similar legislation, to extend the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program by three months be held immediately upon Congress’ return to Washington on January 7: “I call upon Speaker Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Reid to expedite and bring to the floor for debate and vote legislation extending the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program for three months while negotiations continue to reach agreement on a long-term solution,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. House Republicans in mid-December blocked an effort by Democrats to extend the program before the December 28 cut-off, which has left 64,294 people in Texas, and 11,294 in Harris County, without any unemployment insurance even as the rate of Americans who have been out of work for longer than six months remains near historic highs. On average, nationwide, the program provides about $300 a week to recipients. “Behind these grim statistics are the heart breaking stories of real persons struggling to get by, many of whom I have met during the current work period,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “At a press event I held last week at the Career and Recovery Resources Center in Houston to bring attention to this growing crisis and educate Houstonians about emergency unemployment program, I met with and heard from many constituents who are being harmed by the disruption of unemployment insurance benefits. “For example, Anetta, who was an administrative assistant for more than 20 years, working for a local hospital and a school district, told me that she has "not been able to land a job" in this economy and counts on her $600 a month unemployment payment to help with bills. Another example is Jonathan, a welder, who lost his job in February and has been unable to regain steady employment. Jonathan, who is now homeless, told me that without his unemployment insurance he “won't be able to look for work" because he will lack the resources necessary to make himself presentable to potential employers. “Still another is Barry Bachman, a 47 year old information technology analyst who lost his job due to a workforce reduction. Barry is registered with eight different employment recruiters because he desperately wants to work, said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “As Barry says, ‘I have made it clear that I will take a cut in pay if I needed, as I WANT TO WORK! But, it is just real slow right now, people are not hiring.’ Barry needs his unemployment benefits to pay his bills, including ‘gasoline and internet capabilities to pursue a job. These aren’t luxuries, they are necessities.’” Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would also hurt job growth locally and throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.23.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced that the Department of Health and Human Services has issued a clarification of the Affordable Care Act that provides that if someone’s health plan has been cancelled and they now face difficulties paying for a bronze, silver or gold health plan, they are temporarily eligible to buy a catastrophic plan through a hardship exemption to smooth their transition to coverage through the Marketplace. “This step by the Administration can be helpful for a certain group of consumers in our state of Texas,” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “I am glad that some consumers in our state whose plans were cancelled have an additional option of being eligible to purchase a catastrophic plan through a hardship exemption if they have found the other plans on the Marketplace unaffordable.” Under the Affordable Care Act, catastrophic plans are available on the Marketplace for those under age 30 and those who qualify for a hardship exemption. This new option clarifies that someone whose plan has been cancelled and is finding a bronze, silver, or gold plan unaffordable can be eligible for a hardship exemption. The premiums for catastrophic plans are on average about 20 percent less than premiums for other plans available on the Marketplace. This week, HHS also has set up a separate hotline specifically targeted to help consumers who have received cancellations and are still looking for health plans. The hotline is 1-866-837-0677. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.20.2013	Washington, DC – With 1.3 million Americans losing all of their federal unemployment insurance on December 28, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee today renewed her call for immediate extension of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program: “At a time when families should be coming together to celebrate and enjoy the holidays, hundreds of thousands are seeing their entire lifeline cut-off because of the efforts of House Republicans,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “Americans deserve better at a time when our economy continues its recovery from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.” House Republicans in mid-December blocked an effort by Democrats to extend the program before the December 28 cut-off, which leaves 64,294 people in Texas, and 11,294 in Harris County, without any unemployment insurance even as the rate of Americans who have been out of work for longer than six months remains near historic highs. “I applaud Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Dean Heller (R-NV) for introducing their bipartisan legislation to extend the EUC program for three months while Congress works to fashion a long-term agreement,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. The Reed-Heller bill, along with the proposal offered by Congressmen Sander Levin (D-MI) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and legislation introduced by Congresswoman Jackson Lee on Monday, December 16, the “Unemployed Jobhunters Protection and Assistance Act (H.R. 3773), demonstrates that there is sufficient bipartisan support for an extension of the EUC program. “I call upon Speaker Boehner to reconvene the House before Christmas and allow it to vote so we can extend this vital relief for people who worked hard, played by the rules, and lost their jobs through no fault of their own,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. The federal unemployment insurance program took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as the economy continues its recovery. Despite the real progress the economy has made since its near collapse in 2008, there are nearly 2 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began and long-term unemployment as a percentage of the unemployed is 37 percent, far higher than during previous recessions. On average, nationwide, the program provides about $300 a week to recipients. Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would also hurt job growth locally and throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.19.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee has been named “Champion for Children,” by the bipartisan First Focus Campaign for Children, one of the nation’s leading advocacy organizations for children. In announcing the selection of Congresswoman Jackson Lee for the prestigious honor, Bruce Lesley, President of the Campaign for Children, said: “Lots of politicians talk about kids’ issues, but few back it up. Champions deliver for kids.” The First Focus Campaign for Children was particularly impressed by Congresswoman Jackson Lee’s exceptional record in introducing, co-sponsoring, voting for legislation to meet children’s needs and her “extraordinary initiative” in spearheading activities to improve the health and well-being of children, including her service as Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus. “I am honored to be named a ‘Champion for Children’ by the First Focus Campaign for Children,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. Few organizations can match its commitment and record of success in advocating in the areas of child health, education, early childhood, family economics, child welfare, immigration, and child safety, and for tax and budget policies that lift children out of poverty.” In addition to chairing the Congressional Children’s Caucus, Congresswoman Jackson Lee introduced the H.R. 65, the Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act; H.R. 82, the Infant Protection and Baby Switching Prevention Act; H.R. 2585, the Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Reauthorization and the Bullying Prevention and Intervention Act of 2013; and H.R. 60, Authorizing the Award of Congressional Gold Medal for Malala Yousafzai. Congresswoman Jackson Lee also succeeded in winning adoption of several amendments relating to increased education funding to schools with at-risk children, immigrant students, ESL learners, and Native Americans so as to increase academic achievements of students. In addition, Congresswoman Jackson Lee helped lead efforts to end the draconian budget sequester that hurts children and families, to fight proposed reductions in SNAP benefits, Head Start and Early Head Start Programs, and preserved funding for the Women Infants and Children nutrition program. “Children are our nation’s most precious resource,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “I thank the First Focus Campaign for Children for selecting me as ‘Champion for Children’ and I look forward to our working together in 2014 on behalf of the children of America.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District, is the Chairman of the Congressional Children’s Caucus. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.19.2013	Houston, TX - Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) released a report on how the Affordable Care Act benefits the residents of Texas: “The Affordable Care Act does more than just give millions of uninsured Americans access to affordable health insurance,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “It also helps Americans who already have insurance feel more secure in their coverage – including providing them key new consumer protections and cost savings.” The report finds that, thanks to the Affordable Care Act: 5,198,000 individuals in Texas on private insurance have gained coverage for at least one free preventive health care service, such as a mammogram, birth control, or an immunization in 2011 and 2012. In addition, an additional 1,683,800 people with Medicare in Texas have received at least one free preventive service at no out-of-pocket cost. The more than to 10,690,000 individuals in Texas with pre-existing conditions such as asthma, cancer or diabetes – including up to 1,632,000 children – will no longer have to worry about being denied coverage or charged higher prices because of their health status or history. Approximately 5,189,000 Texans have gained expanded mental health and substance use disorder benefits and/or federal parity protections. 4,889,000 uninsured Texans will have new health insurance options through private health plans in the Marketplace or Medicaid. As a result of new policies that make sure premium dollars work for the consumer, not just the insurer, in the past year insurance companies have sent rebates averaging $95 per family to approximately 726,200 families in Texas. In the first ten months of 2013, 233,100 seniors and people with disabilities in Texas have saved an average of $866 on prescription medications as the health care law closes Medicare’s so-called “donut hole.” 357,000 young adults in Texas have gained health insurance because they can now stay on their parents’ health plans until age 26. Individuals no longer have to worry about having their health benefits cut off after they reach a lifetime limit on benefits, and starting in January, 7,536,000 Texans will no longer have to worry about annual limits, either. Community Health Centers in Texas have received $293,038,000 to provide primary care, establish new sites, and renovate existing centers to expand access to quality health care. Texas has approximately 40 Community Health Center sites, which served about 1,079,000 individuals in 2012. “Instead of working with Democrats to improve the Affordable Care Act, Republicans in Congress are still fighting for its complete repeal,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee said. “Repealing the law would raise premiums, allow discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, force women to pay for preventive services like mammograms, and eliminate discounts seniors get on prescription drugs. It’s time for Republicans to stop refighting old political battles, because the real cost of repeal would hit home for many hardworking families in Texas.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security Congresswoman Jackson Lee’s report follows. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas Report: “This Is The Affordable Care Act In Texas Repeal Would Raise Costs, Strip Protections From Texas Families In Texas, the benefits of the health care law are real, and the repeal plan pushed by Republicans in Congress would undermine or eliminate them across the board, reversing critical consumer protections and driving up costs for millions of Americans. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, in Texas: 5,198,000 individuals on private insurance have gained coverage for at least one free preventive health care service such as a mammogram, birth control, or an immunization in 2011 and 2012. In the first eleven months of 2013 alone, an additional 1,683,800 people with Medicare have received at least one preventive service at no out of pocket cost. The up to 10,695,000 individuals with pre-existing conditions such as asthma, cancer, or diabetes – including up to 1,632,000 children – will no longer have to worry about being denied coverage or charged higher prices because of their health status or history. Approximately 5,189,000 Texans have gained expanded mental health and substance use disorder benefits and/or federal parity protections. 4,889,000 uninsured Texans will have new health insurance options through Medicaid or private health plans in the Marketplace. As a result of new policies that make sure premium dollars work for the consumer, not just the insurer, in the past year insurance companies have sent rebates averaging $95 per family to approximately 726,200 consumers. In the first ten months of 2013, 233,100 seniors and people with disabilities have saved on average $866 on prescription medications as the health care law closes Medicare’s so-called “donut hole.” 357,000 young adults have gained health insurance because they can now stay on their parents’ health plans until age 26. Individuals no longer have to worry about having their health benefits cut off after they reach a lifetime limit on benefits, and starting in January, 7,536,000 Texans will no longer have to worry about annual limits, either. Health centers have received $293,038,000 to provide primary care, establish new sites, and renovate existing centers to expand access to quality health care. Texas has approximately 400 health center sites, which served about 1,079,000 individuals in 2012. Every day more uninsured Americans are signing up for plans as the website gets faster and more people with insurance are benefiting from the law. The Affordable Care Act does more than just give millions of uninsured Americans access to health insurance. It helps Americans who already have insurance feel more secure in their coverage, ensuring it'll be there when they need it. This is a pocketbook issue for many middle class families. Helping ordinary Americans and businesses take advantage of the benefits of the health care law is a top priority for the President and Democrats in Congress. Moving forward, the President and Democrats in Congress are committed to improving the health care law and fixing it when the need arises. Yet instead of working to fix the law, Republicans in Congress have tried and failed to repeal it more than 40 times. Repealing the law completely would raise premiums, allow discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, force women to pay for preventive services like mammograms, and eliminate discounts seniors get on prescription drugs.
12.18.2013	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the decision by U.S. District Court Judge Richard Leon calling into question the constitutionality of the National Security Agency's controversial surveillance program that collects millions of Americans' telephone records: “The decision issued Monday by the federal court in the District of Columbia calls into serious question the constitutionality of the NSA’s surveillance program that collects the telephone records of millions of Americans and highlights the need for major reforms to ensure that NSA carries out its mission in a way that does not abridge or threaten the civil rights or liberties of Americans. “The steady trickle of revelations that began in June about the NSA surveillance program has revealed alarming details about what appears to be the most intrusive and secretive program in American history. “As a senior member of the House Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland Security, I have worked for years to ensure that our national policies and programs strike the proper balance between security and liberty. “That is why earlier this year I introduced H.R. 2440, the “Sunshine in the FISA Court Act,” which would require the Attorney General to disclose each decision, order, or opinion of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, including decisions involving significant interpretations of sections 501 or 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA Act). “I have also introduced H.R. 2434, “Civilian Contractors Engaged in Intelligence Activities Reduction Act of 2013,” which requires the Secretary of Defense to conduct a study to ascertain the extent to which contractors are used in the conduct of intelligence activities and the type of information to which such contractors are exposed or have access. This bill also requires the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress a report containing the results of the study and a plan for reducing by 25 percent the number of contractors to the Department of Defense with top secret security clearances that are engaged in intelligence activities (including intelligence analysis) by December 2014. “The federal court decision also highlights the need for congressional hearings and action on H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act. I am an original co-sponsor of this bipartisan and bicameral legislation which, if adopted, will rein in the dragnet collection of data by the National Security Agency (NSA) and other government agencies, increase transparency of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), provide businesses the ability to release information regarding FISA requests, and create an independent constitutional advocate to argue cases before the FISC. “The NSA plays a critically important role in the effort to keep our nation safe. But its activities must be conducted in a manner that is faithful to our national values and ideals. These are not conflicting objectives. We can achieve both. But to do so, major reforms are needed. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Administration to enact the needed reforms.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Change Happens Will Use Navigator Grant to Provide In-Person Assistance to Consumers Shopping In the New Health Insurance Marketplaces Houston, Texas – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced that $785,000 has been awarded in Navigator grants to Change Happens, a non-profit organization located in Houston. The organization and its staff will provide in-person assistance to consumers in Harris County who want additional help in shopping for and enrolling in plans in the Health Insurance Marketplaces beginning this fall. “The Navigators will be a key resource to help many consumers in our communities understand their coverage options in the Marketplace,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee said. “There will also be many other resources to assist with enrollment. Community health centers are preparing to help enroll consumers in coverage. In addition, the Department of Health and Human Services has also begun training other individuals who will be providing in-person assistance, such as agents and brokers and certified application counselors.” The Navigators will be trained to provide unbiased information, in a culturally competent manner, to consumers about the Health Insurance Marketplaces, qualified health plans, and public programs such as Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program. They will also be trained on adhering to strict security and privacy standards – including how to safeguard a consumer’s personal information – and will be required to meet these standards. They will be subject to federal criminal penalties for violations of privacy and fraud statutes, on top of any relevant state law penalties. “These Navigator grants build on the progress that has already been made in outreach and education about the new Marketplaces,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee pointed out. “Consumers can now learn about the Marketplaces through www.HealthCare.gov. HHS has also launched a 24-hours-a-day consumer call center ready to answer questions about the new Marketplaces and how to get ready for enrollment in 150 languages.” “Beginning on October 1, millions of Americans will have brand-new access to affordable private health insurance coverage,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. “The new Marketplaces will provide individuals and families a choice among various quality private health insurance plans and will also make the coverage affordable through sliding-scale premium tax credits. This Navigator program will play a vital role in helping many consumers find the best plan for them.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security Below is the complete list of the organizations in Texas that were awarded Navigator grants: Change Happens: $785,000 United Way of Metropolitan Tarrant County: $5,889,181 Migrant Health Promotion, Inc.: $589,750 National Hispanic Council on Aging: $646,825 United Way of El Paso County: $642,121 Southern United Neighborhoods: $600,678 East Texas Behavioral Healthcare Network (ETBHN): $1,337,520 National Urban League: $376,800
12.17.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today in response to the outbreak of violence in Egypt: "I extend my deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of the hundreds of persons who lost their lives earlier today in Cairo in clashes with Egyptian security forces. Violence and bloodshed will not lead to domestic tranquility or peaceful reconciliation in Egypt. I call upon the interim government and the military to exercise restraint in the use of force and to show the leadership required to bring all parties together to forge a peaceful solution to the political crisis. “Additionally, I call upon the interim government and the military to end the state of emergency immediately and to respect the human right of protestors to peaceably assemble. I call upon all other parties, including the opposition, to renounce violence and work constructively for the peace and reconciliation sought by the Egyptian people. “I thank Secretary of State Kerry for affirming today the willingness of the United States ‘to work with all of the parties and with our partners and with others around the world in order to help achieve a peaceful, democratic way forward.’” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Jackson Lee will press for inclusion of her “FISA Court in Sunshine Act,” which strikes proper balance between national security and privacy interests, and public’s right to know during House consideration of legislation to reauthorize intelligence programs later this year Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today in response to the plan announced today during at a White House press conference by President Obama for reforming National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance programs: “I welcome the announcement of the President that he intends to work with Congress to restore public confidence in surveillance programs intended to keep Americans safe from those who would do us harm, which has been badly shaken by recent disclosures of leaked classified information. These disclosures have led me and many of my colleagues in Congress to call for reform of the nation’s laws regarding surveillance and greater oversight of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. More transparency, consistent with national security, is needed if we are to restore and maintain public confidence in the NSA and its activities. “That is why I recently the “FISA Court in the Sunshine Act,” (H.R. 2440), bipartisan legislation which requires the Attorney General to disclose each decision, order, or opinion of the FISA Court, allowing Americans to know how broad of a legal authority the government is claiming under the PATIROT ACT and Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to conduct the surveillance needed to keep Americans safe. “As a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, which has legislative jurisdiction over surveillance issues, I am particularly pleased with the President’s announced willingness to work with Congress to pursue appropriate reforms to Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the section of the law relied upon to access the telephone records of American citizens, to ensure that there are meaningful and effective safeguards to prevent abuse. “I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President to implement these needed surveillance program reforms during the consideration of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 later this year.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Jackson Lee: “A legislative fix in response to Supreme Court decision Shelby County v Holder is needed.” HOUSTON TX – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement marking the 48th anniversary of the landmark Voting Rights Act. President Lyndon Johnson signed this historic law on August 6, 1965: “The Voting Rights Act was enacted only after years of those in the civil rights movement marching and in some cases being beaten or dying for the right to vote. For 48 years, the Voting Rights Act has helped secure the right to vote for millions of Americans. “It can be argued that the Voting Rights Act of 1965 is this country’s most significant civil rights law,” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee said. “Nothing is more fundamental to what this nation stands for than ensuring that every American citizen has equal access to the polls, regardless of race, gender, national origin, religion or language. Because of the efforts of the late Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, who held the seat I currently hold and was the first woman member from Texas to serve on the Judiciary Committee, the Voting Rights Act was amended in 1975 to protect language minorities. “Unfortunately, on June 25, the Supreme Court, in its 5-4 decision of Shelby County v Holder, took a step backwards on the Voting Rights Act, by holding that the formula in Section 4 of the Act was unconstitutional and could no longer be used. However, the majority opinion also clearly stated that it was fully within the power of Congress to act to restore the Voting Rights Act, in line with the decision. “Ever since 1965, the Voting Rights Act has been enacted and repeatedly renewed by wide bipartisan majorities in Congress,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee pointed out. “For example, in its most recent reauthorization in 2006, the Voting Rights Act was renewed for 25 years by a vote of 390-33 in the House and 98-0 in the Senate.” “As a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over voting rights legislation, I call upon Members on both sides of the aisle to continue that bipartisan tradition and work together this fall to enact a legislative fix in response to the Supreme Court decision – a fix that will succeed in ensuring that the Voting Rights Act protects the right to vote for years to come,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. “Our country has made much progress toward equality. But, as President George W. Bush said in 2006, ‘the work for a more perfect union is never ending.’ I am optimistic that we can succeed. Restoring the Voting Rights Act to its full strength would be a big step in the direction of ‘a more perfect union.’” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Jackson Lee: “Today is the 2nd anniversary of downgrade of U.S. credit rating and a reminder that middle class Americans cannot afford another GOP manufactured crisis.” HOUSTON – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee marked the 2nd anniversary of the S&P downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating, calling on Republicans to end their obstruction and delay come to the table and negotiate a budget that puts people to work, strengthens the middle class, and brings down the deficit in a responsible way. “In 2011, when Republicans took the American government to the brink of default, holding the debt limit hostage, the American people and the economy paid the price – with the U.S credit rating being downgraded for the first time in history. Hardworking American families simply cannot afford another round of brinkmanship, which could result in lost retirement savings and higher mortgage and credit card payments, with Republicans playing politics with the nation’s debt limit and economy,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. In 2011, House Republicans spent months playing brinkmanship on raising the debt limit – with the final deal signed within hours of default. As a result, for the first time in history, the U.S. credit rating was downgraded by S&P, costing taxpayers an estimated $19 billion over 10 years due to increased borrowing costs. During those months of chaos, job creation and economic growth slowed and consumer confidence plummeted. A repeat of this debt limit brinkmanship could savage the stock market and result in lower retirement savings (401(k)s invested in the market ) – and raise interest rates on everything from mortgages to credits card. In the lead up to the fall debates on funding the government and raising the debt limit, there have been some Republican calls to hold these measures hostage in order to defund the Affordable Care Act. “Congress has adjourned for August even though there is urgent work to do, and the GOP continues to threaten government shut down and default instead of working with us to boost economic growth. It is time to end sequestration and pass H.R. 900, the “End Sequestration Now Act,” of which I am a co-sponsor. I also call upon the Republican leadership to stop their obstruction and delay, and come to the table to negotiate a budget that puts people to work, strengthens the middle class, and brings down the deficit in a responsible way,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Jackson Lee: FMLA proves that America succeeds when women succeed and time has come to expand protection to expand access to leave with pay HOUSTON – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee marked the 20th anniversary of the implementation of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act, which was signed into law on February 5, 1993 by President Bill Clinton. On August 5, 1993, six months later, the protections of the Family and Medical Leave Act were implemented. President George H.W. Bush had earlier vetoed the Family and Medical Leave Act twice. “Since its implementation 20 years ago, the Family and Medical Leave Act has been used more than 100 million times by workers to take unpaid leave to care for themselves, their new children and their family members without having to worry that their jobs will be gone when they return,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee said. The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) requires employers with 50 or more employees to provide eligible employees with up to 12 weeks of job-protected, unpaid leave per year, to care for a newborn or newly-adopted child or care for their own or a close family member’s serious illness. Over the last 20 years, due to the FMLA, mothers and fathers have taken time to care for infants. Pregnant women have taken time to care for themselves and seek medical help during complicated pregnancies. Adult children have taken time to care for ailing parents. Indeed, nearly everyone has, or knows someone who has, benefited from the FMLA. “The Family and Medical Leave Act has helped millions of families manage their responsibilities at work and at home,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee stated. “Now we need to build on the FMLA. House Democrats’ When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families calls for improving FMLA by providing FMLA protections to more of the workforce and also exploring ways to expand access to paid, as well as unpaid, leave.” “Workplace policies need to reflect the new realities of the workplace,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. “Almost half of all workers are women, and 40 percent of working women are the primary breadwinners in their families. We need to take further steps to help America’s working women – and all of America’s workers – better balance their responsibilities on the job with their responsibilities to their families at home.” For more information on When Women Succeeds, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families, click here. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “The National Cancer Institute grant awarded to University of Houston will greatly aid our progress in finding a cure for colon cancer.” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) announced today that the National Cancer Institute has awarded a grant in the amount of $312,201 to the University of Houston to support its Cancer Biology Research Program, particularly its ongoing Elucidating the Mechanism of ERbeta in Colon Carcinogenesis Project. The grant funding will enable the University of Houston’s Department of Biology and Biochemistry to continue to conduct this crucial research. “Colorectal cancer is the third leading cause of cancer death in the United States. This type of cancer is described as the uncontrolled development and spread of malignant cells throughout the body. Although anyone can get colorectal cancer, it is proven that the incidence and mortality rates are highest in African American men and women. Research such as University of Houston’s Elucidating the Mechanism of ERbeta in Colon Carcinogenesis Project will help the nation to come closer to finding a cure for this disease,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “I congratulate the researchers – faculty, students, clinicians, and others - involved in the Elucidating the Mechanism of ERbeta in Colon Carcinogenesis Project on being selected to receive this critically important grant which will help them continue their vital work in this research. I am proud to have supported the authorization programs that made this grant funding possible,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. ###
12.17.2013	Congresswoman Jackson Lee convenes Capitol Hill ‘listening session’ with Justice Department officials and Congressional Black Caucus Members Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today in response to President Obama’s heartfelt remarks regarding his personal reaction to the Trayvon Martin tragedy at an impromptu press conference at the White House: “I thank President Obama for the leadership he provided to the nation today. His heartfelt remarks regarding his personal reaction to the Trayvon Martin tragedy will go a long way toward bridging the divide between those of us who were shocked, saddened and disappointed by the verdict returned by the jury and those who believe the jury reached the correct result. I hope every American gets the chance to witness the President’s powerful and moving account of his own shared experience with the reality lived every day by millions of young African American and Hispanic males in our country: “You know, when Trayvon Martin was first shot I said that this could have been my son. Another way of saying that is Trayvon Martin could have been me 35 years ago. And when you think about why, in the African American community at least, there’s a lot of pain around what happened here, I think it’s important to recognize that the African American community is looking at this issue through a set of experiences and a history that doesn’t go away. “There are very few African American men in this country who haven't had the experience of being followed when they were shopping in a department store. That includes me. There are very few African American men who haven't had the experience of walking across the street and hearing the locks click on the doors of cars. That happens to me -- at least before I was a senator. There are very few African Americans who haven't had the experience of getting on an elevator and a woman clutching her purse nervously and holding her breath until she had a chance to get off. That happens often. “And I don't want to exaggerate this, but those sets of experiences inform how the African American community interprets what happened one night in Florida. And it’s inescapable for people to bring those experiences to bear. The African American community is also knowledgeable that there is a history of racial disparities in the application of our criminal laws -- everything from the death penalty to enforcement of our drug laws. And that ends up having an impact in terms of how people interpret the case. . . . “And so the fact that sometimes that’s unacknowledged adds to the frustration. And the fact that a lot of African American boys are painted with a broad brush and the excuse is given, well, there are these statistics out there that show that African American boys are more violent -- using that as an excuse to then see sons treated differently causes pain.” “As Americans, we are justifiably proud of the exceptional nature of our country. As President Obama has observed many times, in no other country is his story possible. But it should be a sobering thought to all Americans that but for a random and different twist of fate, he could have been Trayvon Martin. “This is the reality of life for so many young African American and Hispanic males across America and in my congressional district. Consider that in Texas and Harris County the likelihood that a prosecutor will seek the death penalty is more than three times higher for African-American defendants than for Whites. Regarding traffic stops in Los Angeles, relative to Whites, African Americans were 127 percent more likely to be stopped and Hispanics were 43 percent more likely to be frisked. African Americans were 76 percent more likely to be searched and 29 percent more likely to be arrested. But compared to Whites, African Americans who were stopped and frisked were 42.3 percent less likely to be found with a weapon. In other words, they were less likely, much less likely, to pose a real danger to the law enforcement officer who stopped them. “Earlier today, I convened a “listening session” meeting of the Congresssional Black Caucus Justice Reform Working Group, which I co-chair with Congressman Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, and officials of the U.S. Department of Justice, who listened intently to powerful statements and stories by members of the CBC regarding the persistence of racial profiling, the Trayvon Martin case, and other matters relating to the protection of the civil rights of Americans. Especially poignant were the remarks of Congressman John Lewis of Georgia, who shed his blood on the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, and is a living example of the sacrifices made by so many in the struggle for justice and equality. “The listening session was very productive and I was pleased with the assurances received that the concerns expressed by CBC members would be considered seriously by the Department of Justice. Members of the CBC, which is chaired by Congresswoman Marcia Fudge of Ohio, also considered the need for legislative responses to racial profiling and “Stand Your Ground” laws, such as the “Justice Exists for All of Us Act,” (H.R. 5947) which I introduced in the last Congress and will soon reintroduce in this session of Congress. “Yesterday, we also celebrated the 95th birthday of Nelson Mandela, a man who was unjustly imprisoned for 27 years but was never embittered because his actions were motivated by truth and justice. Upon his release from prison in 1990, Nelson Mandela urged his supporters to intensify their struggle for freedom, saying “to relax our efforts now would be a bitter mistake which generations to come will not be able to forgive.” So also it is with us who seek justice for Trayvon Martin.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “The National Eye Institute grant awarded to University of Houston will greatly aid the Vision Research program.” WASHINGTON —Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) announced today that the National Eye Institute has awarded a grant in the amount of $376,250 to the University of Houston to support its Vision Research Program, particularly its ongoing Toll-Like Receptor and Dry Eye Inflammation and Infection Project. The grant funding will enable University of Houston’s Department of Biology and Biochemistry to continue to conduct crucial this research. “More than 4.9 million Americans suffer from dry eye, a condition in which there is an insufficient supply of tears to lubricate and nourish the eye. Tears are necessary for maintaining the health of the front surface of the eye and for providing clear vision. Research such as University of Houston’s Toll-Like Receptor and Dry Eye Inflammation and Infection Project help the nation to come up with solutions to this common, chronic problem,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “I congratulate the researchers – faculty, students, clinicians, and others - involved in the Toll-like Receptor and Dry Eye Inflammation and Infection Project on being selected to receive this critically important grant which will help them continue their vital work in this research. I am proud to have supported the authorization programs that made this grant funding possible,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, former whip of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement on the 95th birthday of former South African President Nelson Mandela and the 5th anniversary of Nelson Mandela International Day: “On this special day, my thoughts, prayers, and wishes are with Nelson Mandela and his family. Today we honor one’s man’s commitment to our lives by inspiring people to take up action for the betterment of our world and for the empowerment of communities everywhere. “Nelson Mandela dedicated his life to serving humanity and continues to improve the lives of South Africans. Although he sacrificed so much — 27 years in prison separated from his family and friends — to bring about the end of apartheid, his work has inspired people around the world to fight for equality, justice, and democracy. “Five years ago, the United Nations dedicated this day to commemorate Nelson Mandela’s legacy of peace and freedom. As the world celebrates this momentous occasion, I want to wish Madiba a happy birthday and am honored to have worked with one of the greatest leaders of the 20th century.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary.
12.17.2013	Houston, TX – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) honored local small businesses as part of the 50th Annual National Small Business Week. “Today, we celebrate American small businesses, particularly those here in Houston, which are the engine that drive our economy. That is why House Democrats have put small businesses at the forefront of our economic plan to create good-paying jobs and grow the economy” remarked Congresswoman Jackson Lee. To provide certainty to small businesses and expand good-paying jobs, he/she called for action on a budget that spurs new businesses and creates jobs by replacing GOP sequester cuts with a balanced agreement that creates jobs, strengthens the middle class, and responsibly reduces the deficit. “Moving forward on a budget agreement is a critical step toward strengthening our economy and bolstering small businesses. And through our American Jobs Act and our Make It In America agenda, Democrats are fighting to provide millions of small businesses with new incentives to expand and hire, make it more cost-effective for small businesses to invest in plants and equipment, and expanding new tools and strategies for small to medium-sized businesses to transition into clean energy and high-tech manufacturing,” stated Congresswoman Jackson Lee. Republicans in Congress continue with their NO Jobs agenda -- refusing to consider legislation that creates jobs, blocking debate of economic proposals, and conjuring up one manufactured crisis after another – and America’s small businesses and families have paid the price. Under GOP sequestration, small businesses are estimated to be losing access to more than $900 million in loans, and the non-partisan CBO estimates that the GOP sequester will cost 750,000 American jobs this year alone. Despite repeated GOP calls for a budget in the past, the GOP now is blocking negotiations to get a final budget done, which is critical to creating good-paying American jobs, stopping the sequester cuts, growing the economy, and getting our fiscal house in order. “During this 50th Small Business Week, we thank the small businesses across the nation, which form the backbone of our communities -- opening new storefronts, training American workers, manufacturing and selling goods in our neighborhoods,” proclaimed Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “We also renew our commitment to expanding economic opportunity so that everyone with an idea for a new enterprise or business venture has the ability and resources to translate their dreams into reality.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary.
12.17.2013	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement in response to the order issued today by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas denying NFISD’s motion for a temporary restraining order against the Texas Education Agency: “I applaud the North Forest Independent School District and its attorneys for their forceful and effective advocacy on behalf of NFISD educators, students, and parents. I am disappointed that U.S. District Court Judge Hittner did not grant the motion for a temporary restraining order. “Although I believe NFISD’s position had substantial merit, the court’s denial of injunctive relief is another direct, immediate, but foreseeable consequence of the Supreme Court’s misguided decision declaring Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act to be unconstitutional. It is imperative that Congress hold the hearings and pass the legislation needed to repair the damage caused by the Supreme Court’s erroneous ruling.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the disclosure of classified information revealing the existence of an NSA program to collect call records data on millions of Verizon customers: “The disclosure of leaked and highly sensitive classified information to the Washington Post and the Guardian raises several very important and disturbing issues. How is possible that a twenty-something high-school dropout and part-time security guard can be hired by the CIA and the NSA and given, or able to gain, access to some of the government’s most sensitive and secret information? Obviously, something went very wrong in the conduct of this individual’s security clearance background investigation, which is troubling enough in itself but particularly alarming given that more than 3 million persons hold similar top secret security clearances. That is why I am offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 requiring the Secretary of Defense to conduct a study to ascertain the extent to which contractors are used in the conduct of intelligence activities and the type of information to which such contractors are exposed or have access. My amendment also requires the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress on or before December 2013 a report containing the results of the study and a plan for reducing by 25 percent the number of contractors to the Department of Defense with top secret security clearances that are engaged in intelligence activities (including intelligence analysis) by December 2014. “Congress must hold oversight hearings to identify and repair deficiencies in the security clearance system. At the same time, the Department of Defense and the intelligence community should be review its internal processes and procedures to assess vulnerabilities in the current system, which by the way relies too much on the use of outside contractors in intelligence gathering. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after voting against an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (H.R. 2217), which would prohibit U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) from using federal funds to implement enforcement guidance governing the exercise of prosecutorial discretion to ensure that scarce resources are targeted toward aliens who pose a danger to national security or a risk to public safety: “The reason I went to the floor to denounce the amendment offered at the eleventh hour yesterday by Congressman King is because it is one of the most hypocritical, irresponsible, and mean-spirited legislative proposals brought to the House floor this year. It is hypocritical because supporters of the King Amendment have been claiming for months that their refusal to compromise on budget issues and their support for sequestration is motivated by their belief in the importance of setting spending priorities. Yet, the King Amendment would deny ICE the ability to use its limited resources in the most efficient manner to achieve its highest priorities which is apprehend, detain, and remove aliens who pose a danger to national security or a risk to public safety. “The King Amendment is irresponsible because it seeks to prevent trained, experienced, and professional agents and prosecutors from exercising their discretion and acting on the basis of what everyone knows to be true: that there is a vast difference between a terrorist bent on harming America and DREAM Act kid studying hard in school so he or she can graduate and join the Armed Services and willingly risk his or her life to defend the country. This inefficient use of resources wastes taxpayer dollars and does nothing to keep America safe. “Third, the King Amendment is mean-spirited because it would have ICE target its limited resources on innocent, law abiding, young people who were brought to this country as children and would have them deported to a foreign land even though America is the country they know as home and the only to which they have ever pledged allegiance. “As member of Congress, I have traveled many times to Iraq and Afghanistan and always the highlight of my visit was meeting the young men and women who are willingly risking their lives to defend the country they love more than life. Right now, at this very moment, there are more than 5,000 soldiers fighting for us in Afghanistan and elsewhere who are not yet American citizens but who dream that one day they will become citizens of the nation they gladly risk their lives to defend. The King Amendment, however, would have ICE agents and prosecutors pretend to see no difference between one of these veterans who came to this country as an undocumented immigrant and an alien engaged in or suspected of espionage or terrorism. “The King Amendment wastes the money of hard-working taxpayers. It does nothing to make America safer. And, just as bad, it is inconsistent with American values of justice and fair play. That is why I am proud to have spoken in opposition to it when it was debated on the House floor last night and to have voted against it today. “We must address our broken immigration system through comprehensive reform, and I am encouraged that bipartisan legislation has advanced in the Senate and that a bipartisan group of Members continues to meet to discuss the prospects for introducing legislation in the House. I strongly urge the Senate to remove this provision when it considers this appropriations bill.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary.
12.17.2013	Jackson Lee to offer bipartisan amendment to Homeland Security Appropriations Act to prevent TSA from changing policy in future to permit knives on planes Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of its Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the Transportation Security Administrations (TSA) decision to not allow small knives to be carried on passenger aircraft: “In the days following TSA Administrator Pistole’s initial announcement of modifications to the Prohibited Items List (PIL), my office was approached by many persons expressing concern over the proposed changes. Over the last three months, I have heard from flight attendants, air marshals, pilots, passengers, Transportation Security Officers, and airlines who were virtually unanimous in their opposition to any change in TSA policy that would allow knives to be brought into the cabin of passenger planes. “Putting Transportation Security Officers in charge of judging which knives are permissible and which must be confiscated would have decreased security and increase wait times for passengers. The policy was reckless and irresponsible, which is why I introduced H. Res. 156, a bipartisan resolution with my colleague, Congressman Grimm of New York, which expresses the House’s disapproval of the Transportation Security Administration's decision to modify the prohibited items list, set to take effect on April 25, 2013, that would allow passengers to bring small knives in their carry-on baggage. “More importantly, the resolution strongly expressed the sense of the House that TSA delay any changes to the Prohibited Items List indefinitely and should conduct a formal engagement process involving all of the affected stakeholders and has meaningful consultations with affected air travel industry stakeholders, including flight attendants. “After engaging in the process called for in my resolution, TSA today announced that it was abandoning its efforts to change the PIL to permit knives on planes. “While I welcome today’s announcement by TSA, it is important that the banning of knives on planes have the force of law and the imprimatur of the Congress. For this reason, later today I will be offering a bipartisan amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2014 that will prohibit TSA from making any changes to the Prohibited Items List without the approval of Congress. “The Jackson Lee-Grimm-Markey-Reed Amendment will benefit the flying public, flight attendants, the Transportation Security Officer workforce, several airlines and other stakeholders on the frontline who keep the flying public safe.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’ 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security. She is Ranking Member on the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee.
12.17.2013	“This restraining order halts the discriminatory actions of the Texas Education Agency and gives the North Forest Independent School District the opportunity to prove disparate treatment” Houston TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement applauding the issuance of a Temporary Restraining Order by the Texas District Court to restrain the Texas Education Agency (TEA) from further action toward closing the North Forest Independent School District: “The order issued by the District Court makes it clear that there is enough evidence to halt the actions of the Texas Education Agency and prevent it from further damaging a progressing school district and to allow them due process through our judicial system. We cannot allow school districts with similar situations to receive disparate treatment from TEA,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. Because Texas is a covered jurisdiction, Section 5 of the 1965 Voting Rights Act requires that TEA’s attempt to dissolve the North Forest Independent School District must be approved in advance, or “pre-cleared,” by the U.S. Department of Justice. TEA requested pre-clearance without ever submitting a plan for review. “It was apparent to the State of Texas that a plan needed to be submitted before it requested pre-clearance to merge NFISD into the Houston Independent School District. Its failure to produce a plan shows total disregard for the Voting Rights Act of 1965 as reauthorized,” stated Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.17.2013	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement upon learning of the tragic deaths of four Houston Firefighters who gave their lives in the line of duty today. “I was deeply saddened to learn of the death of four firefighters who were killed in the line of duty on Friday. “The death of these four firefighters is a terrible tragedy that is difficult for us to fathom and I extend my deepest sympathies to their families and loved ones. This is a difficult time for members of the Houston Fire Department, and my heart goes out to the members who are now morning the loss of their colleagues. We also pray for a swift and complete recovery for those firefighters who sustained injuries battling a 5-alarm fire in sweltering temperatures. "I join with all Houstonians in mourning the loss and honoring the courage of these four heroes who offered their lives each day to protect us from danger. In the coming days we will remember them and their sacrifice while we support their grieving families during this difficult time.” # # # Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.17.2013	Washington D.C. -“Next week, the 1,400 national council members of the Boy Scouts of America will meet in Grapevine, Texas during the 2013 Annual Meeting to vote on a resolution to amend its membership standards to end discrimination against gay youth. If this resolution is adopted, no longer will a Boy Scout be denied his Eagle Scout badge merely because he is gay. As a member of the Houston Boy Scout Council, I strongly support this resolution and I urge you to vote for its adoption and to speak in support of the resolution forcefully and publicly as the occasions arise. “I support the change in the Boy Scout’s membership standards as strongly as I disapproved of the vote two weeks ago by the Houston Boy Scouts Council to retain the current policy. I disapproved of that vote because I believe discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is wrong, just as it is wrong to discriminate on the basis of race or religion or national origin. “America works better when everyone is treated fairly and everyone has an equal opportunity to fulfill his or her potential. For more than a century the Boy Scouts of America has played an important role in the lives of communities across the nation and taught young people the importance of being trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent. “A vote to change the membership policy to end discrimination against gay youth teaches and demonstrates the importance of humility, perhaps the most important character trait of all. Humility is the opposite of proud and stubborn; humility embodies “the spirit of liberty,” which, as Judge Learned Hand famously noted, “is the spirit which is not too sure that it is right.” “Admitting that a policy which has been in place for more than a century is wrong and does not reflect contemporary attitudes and beliefs and then changing it is a sign not of weakness but of strength and charity, which is, as the Scriptures teach, the greatest quality of all. “While I strongly support the proposed change to the Boy Scouts membership standards to end discrimination against gay youth, I am disappointed that the resolution does not go further and lift the membership ban against gay adults. But I am not discouraged. Those of us who have labored long and hard fighting for justice and equality understand that victories do not come easy or overnight or without struggle. But because truth and justice is on our side, victory is sure to come one day. As the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, “the moral arc of the universe is long but it bends toward justice.” “As a member of the Houston Boy Scout Council, I strongly support the resolution changing the Boy Scouts membership standards. I urge all members of the National Council, especially those members of the Houston Boy Scouts Council, to vote for the resolution when it comes before the body at the Annual Meeting later this week.” ###
12.17.2013	Jackson Lee: “The best way to reduce the rising cost of Medicaid in Texas is to reduce poverty and create good paying jobs, so fewer people will need Medicaid” Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today after sending a letter to Governor Rick Perry reacting to his letter of March 14, 2013, in which he reaffirmed his opposition to the expansion of the Medicaid program in Texas: “Today I sent a letter to Governor Perry expressing my outrage over his opposition to the expansion of the Medicaid program in Texas. It is because of my deep desire to help our state meet the needs of our citizens in a fiscally responsible manner that I wrote the Governor to inform him that his opposition to expanding Texas’ Medicaid program to include low-income adults is fiscally irresponsible and morally indefensible, especially to the 28.8% of adult Texans who lack healthcare coverage, which is the highest in the nation in the nation by far. “Indeed, Texas has led the nation in the percentage of uninsured for the last five consecutive years. It is equally troubling that this trend is getting worse, not better; the gap between Texas and the state with the second-highest uninsured rate in the country, Louisiana (24.0%), is 4.8 percentage points -- the largest number separating these two spots on record. “I cited an op-ed entitled “Medicaid Costs Driven By Poverty,” appearing in the Houston Chronicle on May 14, 2013 by Elena Marks, a noted health policy scholar at Rice University's James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, which pointed out that Texas Medicaid covers about 3.6 million people, about 15 percent of our population. Recipients are primarily poor children, who account for 72 percent of enrollees, and poor elderly, blind and disabled people, who account for 21 percent. The remaining 7 percent are poor pregnant women and parents earning less than $4,000 a year. “Between 2001 and 2009, total Texas Medicaid enrollment grew by 65 percent, from 1.9 million to 3.2 million. That is mainly because during the same period the total number of Texans living in poverty grew by 1.4 million (a 45% increase and more than double the 21% growth in population overall). The number of children living in poverty grew by a staggering 75 percent, nearly four times the overall rate of growth. It is this large increase in the number of poor people that has led to a 79 percent increase in Texas’s Medicaid enrollment from 2000 to 2010. “The reason that Texas spends as much as it does on its Medicaid program is not because Medicaid is so expensive but because Texas has so many poor adults and children. This leads to the obvious conclusion that the single best way to reduce the rising cost of Medicaid in Texas is to reduce poverty and create good paying jobs, so fewer people will need Medicaid. Otherwise, Texas will retain its #1 ranking among states with the greatest share of uninsured residents, at 28.8 percent in 2012 according to a March 2013 Gallup Poll — more than 6 million people — compared with a national average of 16.9 percent. “I stand ready and willing to work with Governor Perry and other state and local officials to reduce poverty create jobs, and provide economic opportunity for all Texans. But unless and until poverty in Texas is reduced significantly, the question before responsible Texas officials is whether the people of Texas will be permitted to enjoy the benefits of the Affordable Care Act which their tax dollars help make possible or whether Texans will be left only to subsidize its benefits to be enjoyed by residents of other states. I think the choice is clear and obvious. Expand the state Medicaid program and help usher in an era of economic prosperity and improved public health for all Texans.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees onJudiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.17.2013	Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “Continuum of Care Renewal Grants awarded by HUD to Covenant House Texas, Santa Maria Hostel, Inc., and Stop Turning Entering Prison Inc., and Career and Recovery Resources, Inc. will sustain needed programs and services to reduce homelessness” WASHINGTON —Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded $1.825 million in grants from the Continuum of Care Renewal (CoCR) grants to four recipients from the 18th Congressional District of Texas – Career and Recovery Resources, Inc., Covenant House Texas, Santa Maria Hostel, Inc., and Stop Turning Entering Prison Inc. The grant funding will enable the organizations to continue providing permanent and transitional housing to homeless persons as well as job training, health care, mental health counselling, substance abuse treatment, and child care services. “These substantial grants will provide much needed help to the recipient organizations which selflessly serve over 8,700 homeless persons by providing training opportunities and by offering shelter to more than 3,500 people on a regular basis. Since 22% of the homeless population in Harris County represents families with children, these Continuum of Care grants will make a real difference in the lives of children,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Nationally, there are more than 1.7 million families with children have become homeless primarily due to tragic life occurrences like the death or joblessness of a primary breadwinner, divorce, and domestic violence. In Houston, organizations like Career and Recovery Resources, Inc., Covenant House Texas, Santa Maria Hostel, Inc., and Stop Turning Entering Prison Inc. serve a crucial need in holding these families together and helping them get back on their feet. “I congratulate Career and Recovery Resources, Inc., Covenant House Texas, Santa Maria Hostel, Inc., and Stop Turning Entering Prison Inc. on being selected to receive these critically important grants which will help them continue their vital work in helping to hold homeless families and children and assist them in rebuilding their lives. I am proud to have supported the authorization programs that made this grant funding possible, said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.17.2013	WASHINGTON —Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has been awarded a total of $1.825 million in grants from the Continuum of Care Renewal (CoCR) Program. This grant was awarded to four recipients from the 18th Congressional District of Texas – Career and Recovery Resources, Inc., Covenant House Texas, Santa Maria Hostel, Inc., and Stop Turning Entering Prison Inc. – for providing permanent and transitional housing to homeless persons as well as services including job training, health care, mental health counselling, substance abuse treatment and child care. “These substantial grants will help in reducing the over 8,700 homeless persons by providing training opportunities, access to essential recourses and offer shelter to over 3,500 people on a regular basis. An important fact of the homeless population in Houston’s Harris and Fort Bend Counties is that 22% of the homeless population represents families with children” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. With the help of HUD’s CoCR grant program that has awarded – Career and Recovery Resources, Inc., Covenant House Texas, Santa Maria Hostel, Inc., and Stop Turning Entering Prison Inc. - more homeless support services and training can be provided, lowering the homeless population and help those who are at risk of becoming homeless or chronically homeless. Nationally, more than 1.7 million of the homeless population are families with children. Predominantly caused by tragic life occurrences like the loss of loved ones, job loss, domestic violence, divorce and family disputes; the four organizations awarded the CoCR grant work to better the lives of those who are unfortunate. “I congratulate Career and Recovery Resources, Inc., Covenant House Texas, Santa Maria Hostel, Inc., and Stop Turning Entering Prison Inc on being awarded this grant and know that it will be used in hopes of aiding the miss fortuned and providing the proper resources for the homeless peoples to start over again.” ###
12.17.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement welcoming the National Rifle Association’s (NRA) 142nd Annual Meeting to Houston and inviting NRA Executive Vice-President and CEO, Wayne LaPierre, to meet with her and community leaders and members of the clergy to debate proposals for preventing or reducing gun violence: “I am pleased to welcome the delegates to the National Rifle Association’s (NRA) 142nd Annual Meeting to be held in Houston, Texas. As one of the Members of Congress from Houston, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, and the author of H.R. 65, “Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act, I have invited Wayne LaPierre, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Rifle Association, to meet with me and community leaders and members of the clergy to debate proposals for preventing or reducing the epidemic of gun violence plaguing our nation. (Letter attached) “Everyone agrees our schools, movie theaters shopping malls, streets and communities need to be safer. But we need a comprehensive approach that goes beyond just arming more people with more guns to make this happen. While the NRA is here in Houston the real focus should be a combination of combating mental health and not allowing guns that are used in war to be used against our children. Closing holes in our mental health system, addressing our culture’s glorification of violence, improving background checks for everyone who buys firearms, and reinstating the ban on assault weapons and assault magazines all must be part of a comprehensive approach to reduce and prevent gun violence. “The problem of gun violence has reached epidemic proportions. Since the Newtown massacre, guns have been responsible for approximately 3,293 deaths in the United States and 254 in the state of Texas. This month alone 57 persons have been killed by guns in the city of Houston. In addition, according to the Violence Policy Center, firearms are the second leading cause of traumatic death related to a consumer product in the United States and are the second most frequent cause of death overall for Americans ages 15 to 24. Since 1960, more than 1.3 million Americans have died at the hands of firearm in suicides, homicides, and unintentional injuries. “I think both I and the NRA share the goal of reducing gun violence and we each have put forward bold yet dramatically different solutions. My legislation, H.R. 65, the “Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act,” is a common sense proposal that focuses on protecting our nation’s children from gun violence and accidents. H.R. 65 would raise the handgun eligibility age from 18 to 21; and will prohibit persons under the age of 21 from possessing semiautomatic assault weapons or large capacity magazines. In contrast, the NRA advocates for more guns in schools, looser restrictions on gun owners, and the ability of private citizens to carry concealed weapons in public streets and buildings. “The NRA has been an influential voice on this and other issues relating to gun control and safety since its founding and I am certain the citizens of Houston would benefit from the participation of Mr. LaPierre in a meeting in which we all have the opportunity to discuss the NRA’s proposal to prevent or reduce gun violence and to respond to questions from interested community leaders.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.17.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement inviting James W. Porter, II, the President of the National Rifle Association’s (NRA), and Wayne LaPierre NRA Executive Vice-President and CEO, to meet with her and local clergy and community leaders to discuss solutions to end the epidemic of gun violence: “Since the NRA Annual Meeting is being held in my congressional district, I think it is important to reach out to NRA leaders to discuss solutions for preventing gun violence prevention and passing legislation requiring universal background checks for all gun sales which is supported by 89 percent of Houstonians and by 87 percent of Americans nationwide. I look forward to meeting with Mr. Porter and Mr. LaPierre.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.17.2013	Bipartisan border security measure co-sponsored by Congresswoman Jackson Lee easily passes first major test Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee released the following statement in response to the favorable markup today of the Border Security Results Act of 2013 (H.R. 1417), bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Congresswoman Jackson Lee that provides strategic guidance and direction to the Secretary of Homeland Security in developing and executing a strategy to secure the nation’s borders: “Today I joined with my Homeland Security Committee colleagues in a bipartisan effort to develop legislative solutions and identify and provide the resources needed to secure the nation’s borders. H.R. 1417 is an example on what can be achieved when Members of Congress are willing to reach across the aisle to find common ground and commonsense to solutions to America’s border security challenges. It was a decisive moment when Democrats and Republicans worked together in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks to protect the homeland. Similarly, we will look back on today’s action by the Border Security Subcommittee as a pivotal moment in the ultimately successful effort to secure America’s borders in a manner consistent with our national values. “I have long advocated for a comprehensive, DHS-wide strategy for achieving border security that would bring together the various components, personnel, and resources that play a role in the Department's border security mission. “I am particularly pleased that the measure approved today incorporates several amendments I offered which will help DHS to develop and implement a strategy resulting in situational awareness and operational control of our borders. “I look forward to working with DHS and my colleagues in the House and Senate refine the legislation and shepherd it to final passage so that it may be signed into law by the President.” Description of Jackson Lee Amendments incorporated into H.R. 1417, Border Security Results Act of 2013: An amendment to require that the border security strategy required under the bill include input from State, local, and tribal law enforcement as well as border community stakeholders, including ranchers and local chambers of commerce. An amendment to require DHS to collaborate with a DHS National Lab and DHS Center of Excellence in development of the metrics required under the bill. An amendment requires that border security strategy efforts to increase “situational awareness” do not infringe or abridge privacy, civil liberties, and civil rights protections. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.17.2013	Jackson Lee legislation provides comprehensive, humane and practical solutions to immigration challenges and promotes family unification Houston, TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee Immigration Subcommittee and the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee released the following statement regarding H.R. 1525, the “Save America Comprehensive Immigration Act of 2013”: “I have been working on immigration issues since serving as the Ranking Member of the Immigration Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee. The immigration challenges facing our nation affects all regions of our country and every sector of the economy. These comprehensive challenges require comprehensive solutions. That is why I have reintroduced the “SAVE America Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2013,” legislation that I have introduced each Congress since 2007. The Senate will soon be taking up immigration reform legislation developed by the ‘Gang of Eight’ and it is expected that the House will begin its deliberations when the Senate completes its work. My legislation contains the legislative proposals that are likely to be included in the Senate bill and is a good starting point to begin the hard but necessary legislative work that must be done in the House. This legislation, which I developed in consultation over the years with representatives of stakeholder groups, addresses the challenges posed by our broken immigration system in a comprehensive, humane and family friendly way. Among the highlights of the SAVE America Comprehensive Immigration Act of 2013 are: Provides a path to earned access to legalization for those who meet certain eligibility requirements, among them: (Residency requirement) The alien was physically present in the United States for a continuous period of not less than 5 years immediately preceding the date on which this provision was enacted and has maintained continuous physical presence since then; and (Community service) if older than 18, has performed at least 40 hours of community service. Some of the other provisions are as follows: The opportunity for young person’s brought to the United States as children to earn access to legalization and later citizenship and to serve in the military and attend college, which will help make our nation better and stronger. Promotes family reunification by increases in the allotment of family based immigrations visas. Allows aunts and uncles or grandparents to adopt an orphaned or abandoned niece, nephew, or grandchild. Requires the Secretary of State to establish within the Department of State a Board of Family-based Visa Appeals. The Board would have authority to review any discretionary decision of a consular officer to deny a visa to someone who is the beneficiary of an approved family-based visa petition. Provides “age‑out” protection for children when a benefits application (other than an application for naturalization) is not adjudicated within 90 days Provides temporary status pending receipt of permanent resident status by amending current law to permit additional relatives to enter the United States on a nonimmigrant visitor's visa to wait for the processing of a visa petition. Provides resources and equipment for Border Patrol personnel to carry out their duties in a safe and effective manner “Comprehensive immigration reform is the only logical response if we are to address the challenges we face at our borders. Within our own country, this reform must include the chance to earn pathway to legalization. Millions of people are living in the country without documentation; most of them are hard-working people looking for a better life but are entering our country illegally; our legal immigration system continually has enormous backlogs, preventing valuable skilled and unskilled labor from entering the country; and our immigration courts are understaffed and underfunded. “If we let the immigration reform debate focus primarily on minute elements we lose sight of the many other important things we need to do to fix our broken immigration system. It has been estimated that between 12 million undocumented immigrants live in the United States. Most of them are hard working and law-abiding persons who have become productive members of our society. It serves no purpose to keep them in the shadows of our society without lawful status. It is not good for them, and it is not in the best interests of the United States. The process of legalization will also create jobs and generate hundreds of millions of dollars to the economy. “Recently I met with two prominent immigration activists from Mississippi and California, respectively, and again, felt their passion and pride as they described their efforts to help this nation achieve comprehensive immigration reform. And I look forward to working with them and other stakeholders when it comes to this important issue. “America has been waiting for years for the Congress and the President to fix our broken immigration system. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both chambers, on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration to get the job done this year so that 2013 will be remembered as the year that Congress finally passed comprehensive immigration reform legislation that included a path to earned legalization status as we continue to secure our border. My bill, the “SAVE America Comprehensive Immigration Act,” H.R. 1525, does that. This is the right thing to do for the country, and now is the time.” ###
12.17.2013	Says implementation of plan should be delayed indefinitely to avoid placing persons at risk Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member of its Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, released the following statement today regarding bipartisan legislation (H. Res. 156) she introduced today with Congressman Michael Grimm (R-NY) which expresses Congressional disapproval of a plan announced by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to permit passengers to carry small knives on board commercial aircraft and urging TSA to delay implementation of the plan indefinitely pending extensive, constructive, and collaborative consultation with air transit industry stakeholders: “The bipartisan resolution (H. Res. 156) I introduced today with Congressman Grimm of New York calls upon the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) not to go forward with proposed changes to its ‘Prohibited Items List’ that would allow potentially dangerous items, including small knives, to be carried aboard commercial aircraft. We believe that this policy places the American public, flight attendants, federal air marshals, and pilots at risk. We took this action because protecting the flying public and the air transit industry stakeholders from unreasonable risks of harm is not a partisan or regional issue but an American issue. “On March 5, 2013, TSA publicly announced its decision to permit passengers, effective April 25, 2013, to bring previously-banned items in their carry-on baggage when boarding flights. Prohibited items that would now be permitted include hockey or lacrosse sticks, golf clubs, and, most alarmingly, small knives. “The terrorists who attacked us on September 11th, overpowered crew members and pilots and gained access to the cockpits using box cutters, which are small sharp knife-like objects. And just last week, the nation was reminded of the terrible harm that even small sharp objects like a razor utility knife can inflict when a lone assailant stabbed 14 people with an “exacto” knife on the campus of Lone Star College in Houston, Texas. “Accordingly, this resolution puts the House on record in opposition to TSA’s plan and the expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that TSA to delay implementation of those changes indefinitely until after such time that TSA conducts a formal engagement process which involves meaningful consultation and input from all affected air transit industry stakeholders, including flight attendants, airline pilots, and federal air marshals. “The American public has expressed its disapproval of this unwanted and unasked for change to the Prohibited Items List. Now is the time to stand with them and for TSA to rescind its proposal before before it goes into effect on April 25, 2013.” ###
12.17.2013	WASHINGTON —Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the University of Houston has been awarded a $442,781 grant from the National Institute on Drug Abuse. This grant was awarded to the University of Houston for research into Stress and Drug Use Vulnerability in the African American Community. “This generous grant will allow the University of Houston to continue its excellent research into the reasons leading to drug use in the African American community. This research can shed light onto why the African American community is so susceptible to drug use, and possibly lead to tactics to deter the use of drugs within our community.” Drug abuse is one of the leading causes of crime in our nation and programs that seek to get to the root of the drug abuse can alleviate the numbers in both drug abuse cases as well as crime. “I congratulate the University of Houston on being awarded this grant and know that the research being done with the grant is extremely beneficial to our community.” ###
12.17.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security, and a senior member and former Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the introduction today of the “Border Security Results Act of 2013,” bipartisan legislation sponsored jointly by Congresswoman Jackson Lee; Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul of Texas; Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie Thompson of Mississippi; and Homeland Security Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chair Candace Miller of Michigan: “For nearly twenty years, as a senior member and former Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, and the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security, I have been working to fix our nation’s broken immigration system. Today, I am joining with my Homeland Security Committee colleagues in a bipartisan effort to develop legislative solutions and identify and provide the resources needed to secure the nation’s borders. At the same time, however, we must move ahead in the effort to reform our broken immigration system to make it fairer and more humane. There is no reason why we cannot work together on a bipartisan basis to achieve both of these goals at the same time. “America’s borders are dynamic, with constantly evolving security challenges. Border security must be undertaken in a manner that allows actors to use pragmatism and common sense. And we can do so without putting the nation at risk or rejecting our national heritage as a welcoming and generous nation. While the metrics called for in our bill are useful to measure and our continued progress toward better managed borders, I am pleased that this bipartisan legislation reflects my insistence that it contain nothing that could be construed to impose conditions that must met before comprehensive immigration reform legislation can be enacted. “Perhaps at no point in the last two decades has the time been better to enact comprehensive immigration reform and border security legislation, not just for the sake of the millions of undocumented individuals in this country, but also for the security of our borders and our Nation. If we are to seize this historic opportunity, we need everyone, including the Unites States Congress, President Obama, the Department of Homeland Security, and key stakeholders, to get in the game to ensure that we have in place adequate systems and resources to secure our borders while at the same preserving America’s character as the most open and welcoming country in the history of the world. ###
12.17.2013	WASHINGTON —Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that the University of Houston has been awarded a $225,423 grant from the National Institute on Drug Abuse. This grant was awarded to the University of Houston for clinical trials to research Integrated Smoking Cessation Treatments for Emotional Dysregulation. “This substantial grant will allow the University of Houston to continue its search for long lasting treatments for those who struggle with tobacco addiction. The work that this grant will fund is of great importance to Houston as nearly 16% of Houstonian adults identify themselves as current smokers,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Tobacco use is currently the leading preventable cause of disease and death in the nation, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDC), which links 20% of all national deaths to tobacco. The CDC also states that among current U.S. adult smokers, 68.8% report that they want to quit completely. These numbers make evident the importance of programs like the one funded by this grant. “I congratulate the University of Houston on being awarded this grant and know that it will be used in hopes of finding cutting edge treatments that will one day benefit Houston as well as the nation as a whole.” ###
12.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), a senior member of the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary, issued the following statement today on the eve of the U.S. Supreme Court’s consideration of two cases involving marriage equality for same-sex couples: “This week the U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in two important cases involving marriage equality. I urge the Court to continue its traditional role of being the guardian of individual liberties and the body that protects and expands the constitutional rights of the people guaranteed by the Bill of Rights, and the Equal Protection and Due Processes Clauses. “I urge the Court, therefore, to uphold the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Hollingsworth v. Perry declaring California’s Proposition 8 to be an impermissible infringement on the equal rights of gay and lesbian persons to marry. I also urge the Court to uphold the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in United States v. Windsor, which struck down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) because it unconstitutionally defines the term marriage as "a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife" and spouse as "a person of the opposite sex who is a husband or a wife" and renders same-sex couples who are lawfully married under state law ineligible for more than 1,138 federal rights, benefits and protections.” “The greatness of America lies in its history of expanding rights and liberties to its people. At its founding, for example, the right to vote was limited to propertied white males. Over time, the franchise was extended to women, and persons of color, and the young. There was a time in our history that segregation and discrimination based on race was the law of the land. That time came and passed because the nation, led in large part by the Supreme Court, was challenged to live up to the true meaning of its creed that all men are created equal. And those decisions of the Court have made our country better. “The fight for marriage equality presents another challenge for the nation and an opportunity to perfect our union by expanding freedom and liberty and putting an end to centuries of unequal treatment and discrimination. I believe the time has come for the Supreme Court to declare that the U.S. Constitution recognizes and protects loving, committed same-sex couples who want to marry for the same reasons as their straight counterparts. The desire that loving couples have to commit their lives to each other is a universal aspect of the human condition and is not now, and never has been, limited to couples of the same religion or race or gender. As Justice William O. Douglas stated nearly 50 years ago in the landmark case of Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479, 486 (1965), about the importance of marriage to human beings: “We deal with a right of privacy older than the Bill of Rights -- older than our political parties, older than our school system. Marriage is a coming together for better or for worse, hopefully enduring, and intimate to the degree of being sacred. It is an association that promotes a way of life, not causes; a harmony in living, not political faiths; a bilateral loyalty, not commercial or social projects. Yet it is an association for as noble a purpose as any involved in our prior decisions.” “Throughout my public life I have stood firmly on the side of expanded freedom and opportunity and have fought to eradicate discrimination and inequality. That is why I urge the Court to declare unconstitutional California’s Proposition 8 and Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act.” ###
12.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after Congress left Washington, DC for the holidays without addressing those who will lose their unemployment benefits on December 28th: “Unless Congress acts, 1.3 million jobless workers will lose their unemployment benefits on December 28th. And according to the Congressional Budget Office, an additional 3.6 million workers will lose access to benefits in 2014. “This is NOT a partisan issue: The Emergency Unemployment Compensation program was signed into law in 2008 by President Bush when the unemployment rate was 5.6 percent and the average duration of unemployment was 17 weeks. Today – after the last two good months of job growth – the unemployment rate is 7 percent and the average spell is 36 weeks. Long-term unemployment has been growing because the job market remains so bad. “There are still 3 unemployed workers for every job opening. 20 million Americans want a full-time job and can’t find one. 69 million people lived in households that received these benefits since 2008, including 17 million children. 40 percent of the people who received EUC made $30,000-$75,000 a year before they became unemployed; 20 percent were college grads. EUC and regular unemployment benefits mean people have money for gas, food, clothes, and to pay their rent or mortgage while they look for work. “Unemployment benefits help communities as well as families: Unemployment tends to hit certain areas hard – a plant lays off people and then surrounding businesses start laying off people. Unemployment benefits bring needed funds into local communities and help grocers and others keep their workers employed. If EUC goes away, an estimated 240,000 jobs that are supported in this way will also disappear.” ###
12.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Founder and Co-Chair of the House Children’s Caucus released the following statement regarding the one year anniversary of the tragic shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut: “There continues to be a need for a comprehensive approach to addressing the problem of gun violence in America. Guns and the harm perpetrated by them impact every American and the tragedy at Sandy Hook one year ago only underscored how random gun violence events can be. Over one million people have been killed with guns in the United States since 1968. U.S. homicide rates are 6.9 times higher than rates in 22 other populous high-income countries combined, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. Most gun owners are responsible and law-abiding, and they use their guns safely. I have introduced HR 65, the Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act and she has co-sponsored other gun safety legislation while in Congress. Many in the law enforcement community have expressed strong support for her legislation. “As the Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus and a senior Member of the Judiciary Committee, I have listened far too often to the tragic testimony of individuals who have survived or lost loved ones as a result of gun violence. In America there exists a pernicious culture of violence; a subculture that with today’s technologically advanced weaponry is far more dangerous to public safety than ever before. At no point in our nation’s history has a single human been more capable of inflicting massive death and misery, and our society is producing more individuals who wish to employ such means to carry out their ill intentions. “What occurred at Sandy Hook almost a year ago is every parent’s worst nightmare – a senseless tragedy, leaving us to wonder what could motivate someone to commit such a horrible act against innocent children and those who serve as their educators. The entire nation will continue to stand as a source of support to this community. I urge all Americans to continue to keep these victims and their families in their thoughts and prayers as they go through these difficult times.” ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after the Department of Health and Human Services announces $2,000,000 in grant awards to Health Centers in Houston, Texas: “Today I am pleased to announce $2,047,210 in grant awards to 10 Houston, Texas health centers currently working to enroll uninsured Americans in new health insurance coverage options made available by the Affordable Care Act. With these funds, health centers can expand their enrollment assistance efforts as more Americans enroll in affordable health insurance coverage. “Today’s awards build upon the efforts of health centers in Texas to help uninsured Americans gain health insurance coverage. This investment means that Texas health centers can provide expanded assistance for individuals looking for resources to help them understand their insurance options and enroll in affordable coverage. “With these awards, health centers will be able to meet immediate needs, including expanding the hours of existing outreach and enrollment assistance workers, and hiring new or temporary outreach and enrollment assistance workers. Having more opportunities in Texas for face-to-face enrollment assistance from trusted resources at local health centers means that more individuals will get the help they need to sign up by the end of the open enrollment period on March 31, 2014. “These awards, issued by HRSA, complement and align with other federal efforts to help Americans get access to affordable health insurance coverage. Today’s awards also build upon earlier health center program investments of $150 million nationwide to support outreach and enrollment activities.” ###
12.06.2013	Houston, TX - Please join Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee and other members of the Houston Community as they hold a Prayer Vigil in honor of the life of Nelson Mandela. Nelson Mandela dedicated his life to serving humanity in the fields of conflict resolution, race relations, the promotion and protection of human rights, reconciliation, gender equality, the rights of children and other vulnerable groups, the uplift of poor and underdeveloped communities, and the struggle for democracy internationally and the promotion of a world culture of peace. We will honor his life TODAY with this Prayer Vigil. WHAT: Community Prayer Vigil in honor of the life of Nelson Mandela. WHEN: Friday December 6, 2013 3:30pm TODAY WHO: The Honorable Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) Community Leaders Members of the South African Community WHERE: Bob Casey Federal Courthouse 515 Rusk Street Houston, TX ###
12.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today on the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela: “On this sad day, the thoughts, prayers, and wishes of all Americans, and peace loving people the world over, are with Nelson Mandela and his family. Nelson Mandela’s commitment to humanity as a human rights lawyer, a prisoner of conscience, an international peacemaker, and as the first elected president of a free, democratic, and multiracial Republic of South Africa inspired the world. “Nelson Mandela dedicated his life to serving humanity in the fields of conflict resolution, race relations, the promotion and protection of human rights, reconciliation, gender equality, the rights of children and other vulnerable groups, the uplift of poor and underdeveloped communities, and the struggle for democracy internationally and the promotion of a world culture of peace. “Today we honor the life and work of a man who by his courage, commitment to justice, grace in the face of unearned suffering, and capacity to forgive continues to inspire the world. In the words of Nelson Mandela: ‘For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.’ “He went from a militant freedom fighter, to a prisoner, to a unifying figure, to an elder statesman. He was a father figure, elder statesman and global ambassador. He was the guarantee, almost like an insurance policy, that South Africa's young democracy and its leaders will pursue the nation's best interests. He led the campaign to defeat apartheid through non-violence, peace, and dialogue. He never allowed resentment to drive him away from the path of reconciliation. He emerged from prison to set free an entire nation; he shed the bonds of slave labor to reshape the fate of his people. “May the life of Nelson Mandela long stand as the ultimate tribute to the triumph of hope. May it be a comfort to his family, to his friends and loved ones, to the people of South Africa that so many mourn the loss of this extraordinary man and incredible leader at this sad time.” # # #
12.03.2013	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement after meeting with participants who are fasting in Washington, DC in support of comprehensive immigration reform: “I am inspired by how these fasters are willing to put their health on the line to raise attention to the critical issue of immigration reform. I choose to stand in solidarity with them today. With 7 legislative days left, these fasters are sending a message to House Republican leadership to stop delaying and call a vote on comprehensive immigration reform. I thank my colleagues for standing in solidarity with these courageous leaders. “This group carries on the same spirit that great leaders such as Cesar Chavez did 25 years ago in California when he fasted for 36 days to seek justice for migrant farm workers. I admire their message to adopt immigration reform now so that they may have the same access to the American Dream that all of the immigrants who came here before them now share. Some of the fasters have already gone without food for 10 days and are willing to risk their own health to make their point. As I fast for a day in solidarity with them I will be thinking of the 11 men and women who are sitting in a tent in front of the U.S. Capitol whose message is a one of peace and courage to stand for what is right. “Joined together in solidarity, we are sending a message that the Congress must come together right now and pass comprehensive immigration reform, which will reduce our deficit, grow our economy, secure our borders, and create an earned pathway to citizenship. I am humbled to join with these incredible folks as they demonstrate the commitment to leadership that Tea Party Republicans in Congress so clearly lack. “Over the years I have introduced the Save America Comprehensive Immigration Act and much of the Senate passed bill was included in my immigration bill; the Senate bill would address some of the toughest issues on immigration reform and would offer many innovative and considerate solutions that will help to repair some of the most broken parts of our immigration system. So the passage of the Senate bill is a major leap forward in human rights in America. Now is the time for the House of Representatives to continue this crucial fight for immigration reform and a secure America. “Today, I will stand in solidarity with courageous immigration reform leaders by fasting with them, and highlighting the urgent need for immigration reform. Our immigration system is archaic and clearly broken. There is no reason not to work together towards passing legislation now. Reform is crucial to our families, small businesses, and our economy. I join with the fasters in Washington, and across the country, in calling for action on comprehensive reform now.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.03.2013	November 5, 2013 Houston, TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) announced that a new report released today by the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that 2,049,000 people in Texas will be eligible for premium tax credits to make their health coverage more affordable in the new Health Insurance Marketplace in 2014. The report also found that nationwide 17 million Americans will be eligible for these credits in 2014. “Because of the Affordable Care Act, 2,049,000 people in our state of Texas will qualify for financial help in purchasing health coverage in the new Marketplace in 2014,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee said. “This nonpartisan report highlights how the Affordable Care Act is making affordable health coverage available for millions and millions more Americans. The high interest in the new Marketplaces demonstrates the enormous demand for access to affordable, quality health coverage among Americans without access to employer-provided coverage.” “These ‘premium tax credits’ do not work like normal tax credits, which are provided when one files one’s taxes. Instead, for all those qualifying for a premium tax credit in the Marketplace, the tax credit goes into effect instantly – immediately reducing the premium they owe as soon as they enroll in a health plan, said Congresswoman Jackson Lee. The nonpartisan report also estimates that 3,143,000 people in Texas could look to the new Marketplace as a place to purchase coverage. Nationwide, the report estimates that about 29 million people may look to the Marketplace for coverage. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security To read today’s report visit: https://kaiserfamilyfoundation.files.wordpress.com/2013/11/8509-state-by-state-estimates-of-the-number-of-people-eligible-for-premium-tax-credits.pdf
12.03.2013	November 5, 2013 Houston, TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement regarding media reports involving disturbing incidents of bullying and harassment by a Miami Dolphins football player against a teammate: “There is a place for tough play and tough talk in the National Football League – on the field of play. But off-the-field bullying, harassment, and intimidation of teammates and others is simply unacceptable and must not be tolerated. I applaud Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross for requesting, and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell for initiating, an investigation into the serious allegations of bullying, hazing, and harassment made by Dolphins player Jonathan Martin, who should be commended for his courage in coming forward. “I am also calling for Commissioner Goodell to commit the NFL to participate in a national campaign to combat bullying – not just in NFL locker rooms but also in the nation’s schools and playgrounds and in cyberspace. “Preventing bullying is one of the major challenges facing our nation today. Research studies estimate that on average an 160,000 students in this country refuse to go to school because they fear being bullied and many more attend school in a chronic state of anxiety and depression. In addition, six out of ten American youth witness bullying at least once a day, and nearly 30 percent — or 5.7 million children — are involved in bullying as victims, perpetrators, or both. “Fifteen percent of all school absenteeism is directly related to fears of being bullied and about 1 in 7 students in grades K-12 is either a bully or a victim of bullying. An alarming 90% of all students in grades 4-8 report being bullying victims and 10% of students who drop out of school do so because of repeated bullying. “Bullying can escalate into more serious behavior. According to a recent study by the U.S. Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Statistics, 86% of high school students said that ‘other kids picking on them, making fun of them or bullying them’ causes teenagers to turn to lethal violence in the schools. “The National Football League is one of the great institutions in America. Its product is among the most popular and appeals to every segment of the population and every region of the country. The NFL has a history of providing leadership and setting an example when it comes to addressing important issues facing the nation such as providing equal opportunity, embracing diversity, and fighting breast cancer. Reducing the incidence of bullying is another area where the NFL can have a major impact by adopting a zero-tolerance policy. “Earlier this year, as a member of the Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus and the Committee on the Judiciary, I reintroduced the “Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Reauthorization and the Bullying Prevention and Intervention Act of 2013,” (H.R. 2585), to help address the problem by providing funding to state and local governments for the creation of bullying and gang prevention programs. I also had anti-hazing and bullying language included in the FY 2014 Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (H.R. 2397), which passed the House on July 24. “I am proud that the state of Texas has adopted specific laws to prevent this type of abuse in schools. The Texas Education Code requires Texas public schools to ‘prohibit bullying, harassment and making hit lists and ensure that district employees enforce these prohibitions.’ I urge everyone to take a pledge to fight against bullying. “If we want our children to learn and workers to be productive, we must be able to provide and maintain safe and healthy in which to learn and work. I call upon the NFL to institute a zero-tolerance policy against bullying and upon the Congress to address this problem with prompt dispatch.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.03.2013	November 5, 2013 Houston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding letters she sent to President Obama and House Speaker Boehner concerning the need to take action to prevent the loss of SNAP benefits depended upon by 47.7 million Americans: “The cuts reduce the amount per-meal that beneficiaries receive to $1.40 further stretching the resources of local food pantries that will be pressed to fill the gap to keep people from going hungry. A family of 4 will receive $36 dollars less each month starting on November 1, 2013. This translates into a week of groceries that will be taken away from poor working families, disabled persons, the elderly and children. “There are 154,741 persons in the 18th Congressional District of Texas who will suffer because of the reduction in food assistance to an average of $1.40 per-meal. Studies have documented the inadequacy of this level of funding to meet the minimal nutrition requirements for children and families. “My letter requests Speaker Boehner to bring to the floor a vote H.R. 3353, the “Extend Not Cut SNAP Benefits Act,” legislation I have cosponsored which maintains SNAP benefits at the pre-November 1, 2013 levels and allows the House and Senate to work to reach agreement on the Fiscal Year 2014 budget for food programs. “My letter to President Obama requests that he use the resources of his office and exercise appropriate authority vested in him by law to ensure that millions of Americans who depend on SNAP benefits not suffer due to Congress’ inability to pass a budget. “SNAP programs lift 4.7 million Americans above the poverty line in 2011, including 2.1 million children. Approximately 91% of SNAP benefits go to households with incomes below the poverty line. SNAP is also a win for the economy because every $1 in benefits generates $1.70 in economic activity. “This is not a partisan issue but a compassion issue that can be solved by those on both sides of the aisle working together for the common good.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
12.03.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the tragic shooting at Los Angeles International Airport today: “I am heartbroken by reports of today’s shooting at the Los Angeles International Airport. My sincerest thoughts and prayers go out to the family and loved ones of the Transportation Security Officer who was killed in this heinous act and to the other victims of this senseless act of violence. Now we know the importance of these workers who put their lives on the lines every single day. It is quite evident that they should remain a national force and they should be respected by the nation. “As a senior Member of the Homeland Security Committee for many years, I have been an avid supporter of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Under the umbrella of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the TSA provides security for the nation’s airports, maintains a security force to screen all commercial airline passengers and baggage, and works with the transportation, law enforcement and intelligence communities to ensure safety. The importance of TSA in safeguarding transportation throughout the nation cannot be understated; each day, TSA processes an average of 1.7 million passengers at more than 450 airports across the nation. In 2012, TSA screened what amounted to 637,582,122 passengers. “Today’s tragedy is another powerful reminder of the need to enact sensible federal legislation to reduce the incidence of gun violence, beginning with the adoption of universal background checks that are supported by nearly 90% of the American people. If we are to minimize the recurrence of these tragedies, we must redouble our efforts to keep the most dangerous weapons like AK-47s out of the hands of the most dangerous persons. “I want to thank all of the brave TSOs who keep the flying public safe. I also want to thank the LAX Police, the Los Angeles Police Department, and all of the other first responders. I look forward to the Homeland Security Committee having a thorough investigation into why and how this happened.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
11.22.2013	Houston, TX - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement today in remembrance of President John F. Kennedy on the 50th anniversary of his assassination in Dallas, Texas: “In the life of this nation there have been a few events of such consequence and moment that they have a transformative impact on the people of the country. For my generation, however, the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963 is the moment that lives with us forever. For on that day, my generation lost its leader, its hero, its champion. And its innocence. “I remember where I was and how I felt I learned the terrible news. I was a young schoolgirl when my teacher, wiping away tears, announced to the class that President Kennedy had been shot in Dallas, Texas and was dead. I was stunned and shocked and sad and heartbroken. I cried all the way home. When I got there I went to my room and prayed. “A half century later, I still remember that day as if it were yesterday. And every year on this day for the last 50 years, I always pause to remember the man who inspired me to devote my life to public service and who, along with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, taught me by their example that the greatest calling in life is the call to serve others. “And I still say a prayer for President Kennedy each November 22 but they have not been prayers of lamentation for many years. They are prayers of thanks to the Lord for his infinite wisdom and grace in blessing our country with a captain as perfectly suited to lead our ship of state during the epochal time that was the 1960s as was Abraham Lincoln to the 1860s. “No one better symbolized the nation’s vitality and sense of purpose and unlimited possibility than President Kennedy. He personified the pioneering, trailblazing, independent, courageous, and can-do spirit for which America is justly celebrated around the world. “Most of all, President Kennedy was a man who never stopped thinking about tomorrow or working to realize the full promise of America. And he understood that we all had a place in that future and a role to play in bringing it about. That is why he proclaimed in his stirring inaugural address: ‘Ask not, my fellow Americans, what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country.’ “President Kennedy was a man of consistent and tremendous moral courage. To him, freedom was indivisible, the birthright of every person on earth. John Kennedy, like Abraham Lincoln and Dr. King, understood that ‘when one man is enslaved, all are not free.’ “President Kennedy may be gone but he will never be forgotten. His works – the ‘glow from that fire’ truly lit the world. “So on this day I am remembering President Kennedy. His flame glows eternally in Arlington Cemetery and in the hearts of untold millions the world over, including that little schoolgirl he inspired long ago and who is now the Member of Congress from the Eighteenth Congressional District of Texas. God bless President John Kennedy.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
10.17.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after voting for legislation to open the government and end the government shutdown crafted by Democrats and supported by Senate Republicans and ensure that America can pay her bills: “Since the onset of this manufactured crisis, I went to the floor of the House more than 50 times to speak and to advocate on behalf of our veterans, children, seniors, working families, and the dedicated civil servants who provide the services and benefits that help millions of Americans and who were hurt by the irresponsible and reckless shutdown of the government. “In addition, I introduced H. Res. 375, a resolution putting the House of Representatives squarely on record against the now discredited tactic of conditioning the resolution of fiscal and budgetary disputes on the taking of action relating to non-germane legislative matters, including the repeal or modification of a duly enacted law. This resolution has already attracted many co-sponsors and I will be working to secure more support for it in the weeks ahead. “The size of tonight’s vote (285-144) shows that the shutdown would never had occurred had Speaker Boehner allowed a vote on the clean continuing resolution as was requested of him 16 days ago. “There was absolutely no reason for putting the country through this ordeal, which cost our economy $24 billion, led to the furloughing of 800,000 federal employees, caused untold economic harm to communities all across the country, put at risk the nation’s credit worthiness, and threatened a global recession. I believe that those responsible for the damage caused by the shutdown owe the American people an apology. “I am hopeful that the strong bipartisan votes tonight by the House and Senate will persuade the Tea Party faction in the House to abandon their futile and wasteful efforts to repeal, delay, or impede the Affordable Care Act, which is the law of the land and is here to stay. “In addition to reopening the government and ensuring that America can pay its bills, and maintains the full faith and credit of our nation, the legislation passed this evening establishes a budget conference that is required to report recommendations by December 13, 2013 on a plan that ends sequestration, creates jobs, and spurs economic growth. To earn my support that plan must provide a balance plan for making necessary investments in education, transportation, infrastructure, technology, homeland security, and space exploration. It must also keep faith with our veterans, seniors, children, working families, and move America forward. ” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
10.14.2013	Saturday, October 12, 2013 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jackson Lee today announced that she signed a petition to reopen the government. This special congressional procedure, known as a discharge petition, allows a majority of members to bypass Speaker Boehner and force an up or down vote on a bill to reopen the government. The federal government has been closed since October 1, 2013, and Republican leaders have repeatedly refused requests from Democrats and some Republicans to pass a funding resolution without controversial items and reopen the federal government. “With no end in sight to this damaging shutdown of the federal government, I joined with my colleagues to sign onto the discharge petition that will allow a vote on a bill to reopen the government,” said Rep. Jackson Lee. “This shutdown is hurting my constituents and threatens our national economy. I urge my Republican colleagues to come together in the spirit of bipartisanship to end this crisis by signing onto the discharge petition.” The government shutdown has hurt the middle class and our economy, and will get worse as it continues. Costing taxpayers up to $300 million a day, it has stopped critical loans to small businesses and slowed the processing of veterans disability claims. The shutdown has prevented NIH from taking new patients and halted life-saving medical research and stalled much-needed housing loans for American families. The discharge petition for H. Res. 372 would allow an up or down vote on a clean continuing resolution, providing funding through November 15 at a compromise level requested by Speaker Boehner. This discharge petition only needs a majority of House members to sign on and does not require any action by the Republican leadership. Discharge petitions have been proven successful in the past in bringing up legislation for consideration. According to a Congressional Research Service study, seven discharge petitions have received 218 signatures over the last 30 years. And in all seven cases, the majority party agreed to bring the measure to the House floor. 12 measures were allowed to be brought to the House floor even before the discharge petition reached the full 218 signatures. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
10.08.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Homeland Security committee and a Representative from the state of Texas with one of the largest population of soldiers that have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, released the following statement urging the Secretary of Defense to immediately pay the death benefits to the families so that they can travel to Dover Air Force Base and defray the cost of funeral expenses for these fallen heroes: “Today I called upon the Secretary of Defense to review H.R. 3210, the “Pay Our Military Act,” which the President signed into law as Pub. L. 113-039 on September 30, 2013, and direct that death benefits be paid to the families immediately so that they can travel to Dover Air Force Base and defray the cost of funeral expenses for the service men and women who lost their lives over the weekend in Afghanistan. “This is the right thing to do. Call it a promise placed on hold but never before has America faced a government at war and a government shutdown at the same time. The grim truth of these dueling realities is that our service men and women should not suffer. The death of these service men and women this past weekend has left five families now grieving for their son, daughter, brother, sister, cousin or friend. “These benefits are in place to help support people who paid the ultimate price in service to their country, and for their families it is really important that these benefits be there. These benefits were created by design to support people during the most tragic and terrible moments of their life. These are benefits that are promised by our country, by all of us, to these families. When the service man or woman swears the oath that says ‘I will protect and defend,’ this country makes a promise back to that person that if they do die in service to this country that we will take care of their family. I am hopeful that the families of the fallen will receive their benefits immediately.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
10.08.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement congratulating the Houston Zoo today: “It is with great pride that I congratulate the Houston Zoo on its $459,147 award through the National Leadership Grants for Museums. I was elated to learn that the Houston Zoo’s proposal was one of 16 selected from 110 submitted to the National Leadership Grants program” Dr. Paul Ling, associate professor of virology and microbiology at Baylor College of Medicine and Houston Zoo Associate Veterinarian Dr. Lauren Howard will travel to Washington, DC, for a workshop and ceremony on September 18, 2014 to be recognized for the award. The funds will be used to conduct a research project to deepen the zoo community’s understanding of elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus (EEHV). This research will determine whether any of the currently available anti-herpesvirus drugs have efficacy against EEHV, and continue attempts to grow the virus in the laboratory. The benefits of this project will result in treatments for elephants with EEHV and a better understanding of elephant immunity which will inform future vaccine development. ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
10.07.2013	Saturday, October 5, 2013 Washington, DC: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the current government shutdown: “Today, the House considered the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act (H.R. 3223), which will ensure all federal employees receive back pay once the federal government re-opens, regardless of their furlough status. Roughly 800,000 federal workers across the country, who work hard to make our nation a safer and better place to live, where on the verge losing their pay because they have been furloughed as a result of the government shutdown. “Federal workers should not be held responsible for Congress’ inability to pass a budget. Government employees have already shouldered a great deal of the burden of past deficit reduction measures and have already lived through the pain of sequestration. Today's bipartisan vote shields family pocketbooks and reaffirms our commitment to our federal workforce -- providing these employees with retroactive compensation, as we have done in past shutdowns. “Authorizing back pay is an important step for federal workers, and ending the shutdown and opening the government so federal workers can get back to work and receive that back pay is even more crucial. The House Republican Leadership should immediately bring up the Senate-passed clean funding compromise, which would go directly to the President and open up the entire government for all of the American people now. “Employees such as those at the FBI, U.S. Marshals Service, our park rangers, research scientists, food safety inspectors, aviation safety inspectors, Social Security claims representatives, custodians, and NASA engineers in my District and across America should not be punished because Congress couldn’t get its job done.” ###
10.07.2013	Saturday, October 5, 2013 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, joined by 199 Democrats, sent a letter to House Speaker Boehner today demanding a vote on a piece of legislation that would end the shutdown and fund the government. A vote on the legislation would open the entire federal government immediately. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “Today I am headed back to my District to hear from my constituents regarding how this Republican tactic of shutting down the government is impacting their everyday lives. I believe this short window to go home is important for me to take their message back to Washington in order to make sure we open the government and America pays it bills. People are suffering and are stressed. Today marks the fifth day of the government shutdown and yet House Republicans continue to take our nation on their dangerous, ideological path that is threatening job growth, leaving families with less security and our country with less certainty and stability. “Our message is clear, we demand a vote to end the shutdown and reopen our entire government so Americans can move on with their lives. Since the shutdown, House Democrats have tried seven times to bring up a vote on the Senate-passed continuing resolution, which would fund government at levels passed by both chambers of Congress and end the shutdown immediately. However, House Republicans blocked a vote on each of the Democrats’ measures. “House Republicans continue to drag out this damaging shutdown by voting a cynical, piecemeal approach to funding government. This is no way to govern and no way to run the largest economy in the world. It is time for House Republicans to drop the political games and join Democrats to bring a vote to the floor immediately to end the shutdown and get our government working again for the American people. This unnecessary shutdown is having a devastating impact on our economy, costing more than $300 million in taxpayer dollars a day, halting much-needed loans to small businesses, and forcing roughly 800,000 federal employees that work hard to make our nation a safer and better place to live to be furloughed.” ###
10.01.2013	Press Release REP. JACKSON LEE ANNOUNCES NEW AFFORDABLE HEALTH INSURANCE OPTIONS BEGIN TODAY FOR MILLIONS OF AMERICANS Washington, D.C. - Rep. Jackson Lee released the following statement announcing that beginning today millions of Americans will have access to affordable, quality health insurance as new online Health Insurance Marketplaces open in every state, under the provisions of the Affordable Care Act. “Starting today, the health care law will allow my constituents looking for coverage to purchase affordable, quality health insurance through the new online Marketplace. It is your health, made simple. This new online Marketplace provides a very simple way to get health insurance: insurance that will meet your needs, your lifestyle, and your budget at any income level. “The new Marketplaces build on the last three years, during which Americans have already been seeing lower costs and better coverage because of the Affordable Care Act. Because of the Affordable Care Act, 105 million Americans have already received access to free preventive services, 6.6 million seniors have saved more than $7 billion on their prescription drugs, and more than 100 million Americans have benefited from no longer having a lifetime limit on their coverage. “In the new online Marketplace, the constituents in my congressional district looking for coverage will be able to shop among affordable choices, explained in easy-to-understand language. It is estimated that substantially more than half of those shopping in the new Marketplace will qualify for discounts on their monthly premium, based on their income, which will make the premiums more affordable. “In this new online Marketplace, there is no denial for pre-existing conditions, no annual or lifetime limits on coverage, and no higher rates for women compared to men. The open enrollment period for the first year of the Marketplaces runs from October 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014. Enrollment is a six-month process and will build over time. For example, under the Massachusetts state health reform, three times as many people enrolled during the second half of the first year, as in the first half. “The constituents in my congressional district looking for health coverage should go to www.healthcare.gov and by putting in their state and zip code, they will be able to see and compare plans and premiums in our part of the state. If constituents have questions about the Marketplace, they can call 1-800-318-2596, a toll-free hotline open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. “The new online Marketplace will mean new peace of mind for many of my constituents. Many have been unable for years to obtain health insurance because of a pre-existing condition or because they couldn’t find an affordable plan. The new Marketplaces across the country will mean brand-new health and economic security for millions of Americans and a healthier, more prosperous nation.” ###
10.01.2013	Press Release CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE’S STATEMENT ON THE REPUBLICAN MAJORITY IN THE HOUSE ALLOWING THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO SHUTDOWN Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, released the following statement regarding the Republicans in the House allowing the government to shutdown: “The Republican House remembers have taken us toward the apocalypse and they have no interested in turning back. It is shameful that people will have to suffer because Republicans will not do the peoples business and fund the government. The government that these Republicans were elected to fund will soon close down and that will hurt our economy. Americans across the country will not be allowed to show up for work. Paychecks could be delayed, meaning some folks will have to cut back on groceries or maybe even not pay a few bills. Businesses will have fewer customers. Veterans will not get services they rely on -- and it will put benefits for seniors at risk. “Even though they have already voted over 40 times to defund or delay the health care law, this group of Republicans in Congress is so obsessed with the idea of sabotaging Obamacare that they are willing to take the economy hostage to do it. The Affordable Care Act was passed by a majority of the House and a supermajority of the Senate, signed into law by the President, and upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court. Yet the majority continues to jeopardize the jobs and security of middle-class families in order to reverse the legitimate outcome. “The Department of Defense estimates that during a shutdown nearly half of the civilian workforce would be sent home without pay, while the rest would continue to work for delayed pay, impacting the 51,621 civilian workers in Texas. 184,230 service members in Texas would remain on duty, but would see their pay delayed if the shutdown extends for more than 10 days. Also, a government shutdown will result in 1.4 million active duty military personnel not being paid for their work until after the shutdown ends. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees will be furloughed, and those employees and contractors who continue to work will not be paid during the shutdown. Federal loan guarantees for small businesses and middle-income families purchasing homes will be put on hold, as will research into life-threatening diseases and environmental reviews of planned transportation and energy-related projects, halting economic progress. “It is a sad commentary on the state of the Republican majority that its leaders are powerless to contain the most extreme voices clamoring for a path we know will disrupt the economy, kill jobs, and stunt growth. I urge the majority to end this dangerous charade and advance a Continuing Resolution capable of passing the Senate and being signed into law. “Finally – in spite of their failed efforts the health insurance exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act -- or Obamacare -- will be open for business on Tuesday. Millions of uninsured Americans will be able to enroll in health plans – something the American people without insurance look forward to doing.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.30.2013	Press Statement IN THE MIDST OF A PENDING GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN THE TEXAS STATE GOVERNMENT RISES TO OBSTRUCT AGAIN Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee questions the authority of the Government of the State of Texas to interfere with the Affordable Care Act by dictating hours of training to already trained Navigators Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement in reference to the State of Texas imposing tough regulations on ‘Navigators’ - people who will help the pubic buy insurance in the marketplaces: “The Governor and the state of Texas have refused to expand Medicaid as part of the Affordable Care Act, even though the federal government would pay almost all of the cost and it would insure an estimated 1.5 million Texans who don't have coverage now. Most of the new recipients would be the working poor who earn up to 138 percent of federal poverty guidelines, which are $11,490 for a single person and $23,550 for a family of four. “Passed in 2010, the Affordable Care Act is the most sweeping reform of American health care since the 1965 passage of Medicare and Medicaid. It seeks to stem the growth of health care costs by expanding the pool of the insured and to reduce the number of people who go broke because they get sick - the leading cause of bankruptcy in the United States. “Reforming our health care system is a historic opportunity to make health care more affordable and bring the kind of change we were all elected to achieve for the American people. Nothing could be more important, which is why we now want to educate the American people about the new law, help to implement it, and strengthen the hands of those who have worked for this historic reform. What the Governor and the State of Texas is doing to delay or make this the choice of choosing a health care plan is wrong. “The Affordable Care Act is about securing affordable, quality and accessible health care as a right, not a privilege, for every American; yet it is also about wellness and prevention, economic security and entrepreneurship, the well-being of working families and the strength of the middle class. In short, this historic law is about a healthier America. We are now in the midst of changes that put health care in reach for all. Existing plans with larger employers are maintained and improved. Just as in the past, if you like your doctor, you can choose to stay with your doctor. “Good things have already happened and there is more is to come: starting tomorrow consumer-friendly marketplaces will enable families and individuals who are uninsured or buy their own coverage to buy quality, affordable coverage. The majority of uninsured Americans will have access to subsidies to make their insurance more affordable. All plans in the marketplaces will offer at least the minimum essential health benefits. The insurance industry will be more transparent than ever, with summaries of coverage and premiums available for every plan in the marketplace. There will be no annual limits on coverage for any patient and everyone will be guaranteed the availability of health insurance, regardless of medical history or pre-existing conditions. I will be asking the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services to file a lawsuit to determine if the government of Texas and Governor Perry are violating the Civil Rights of Texans and breaking federal law.” ###
09.30.2013	Press Statement CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE STATEMENT ON THE PASSING OF WILLIE MAE KIRK Willie Mae Kirk was a civil rights leader and teacher who fought against segregation in Austin Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement on the passing of Willie Mae Kirk: “Willie Mae Kirk was endearing to all women for what she stood for, her courage, her grace and her charity. She was a mentor to those that came after her in the state of Texas. But more importantly, Ms. Kirk made a difference to her family and friends. She recognized that America was better when it invested and believed in all of its people. Ms. Kirk’s passing is a loss for the state of Texas but her service should be a roadmap for all people who wish to make a difference in the lives of all Americans. “A teacher for 32 years, Ms. Kirk championed equal opportunities for her students in East Austin and helped lead protests against segregation at Austin businesses, schools and Barton Springs Pool. Ms. Kirk played an important role in Austin politics over the past five decades, beginning with efforts to repeal the poll tax and register African Americans to vote. Even late in life, she continued to speak out about how minorities were treated in Austin, particularly in the wake of police shootings. My condolences and prayers go out to her whole family especially her son the Honorable Ron Kirk who was elected Mayor of Dallas and was later appointed the U.S. Trade Representative by President Barack Obama and whom I have the utmost respect for. “Ms. Kirk understood that active engagement in politics was key to ending discrimination. That is where she thought things had to change. Her strength as a teacher and a leader for equal opportunity has made this a stronger and more just community and country. And through the example she set for her children, her reach has extended around the world. “Ms. Kirk was not only a woman but a giant in the civil rights movement for whom people like the late Barbara Jordan looked up to. This pioneering woman in the civil rights movement of Texas left a roadmap for all of us to follow. Her loss will be felt throughout the State of Texas. “Ms. Kirk’s first priority was always her students as she thought all kids need to have a place where they can get as much knowledge as they needed. Now, she happily joins her husband Lee Kirk. I hope it is a comfort to the Kirk family that so many people mourn their loss and appreciate the life Willie Mae Kirk.” ###
09.30.2013	In recent years, Congress has on multiple occasions enacted a “continuing resolution” that extends the most recent budget into the future. These resolutions are usually non-controversial measures that allow the government to continue to function normally while Congress works to find common ground on future funding levels for government programs and agencies. The current resolution expires at midnight on September 30. As a result, if a new continuing resolution is not passed before the deadline, every “non-essential” function of the federal government will shutdown until a new continuing resolution is enacted. Unfortunately, Republicans in the House of Representatives and the Senate have refused to enact a continuing resolution unless President Obama and Democrats agree to defund the Affordable Care Act, a law that has already benefited millions of Americans and is poised to provide a new path to affordable healthcare for millions of families and individuals. This is simply unacceptable. In 2010, the Affordable Care Act was enacted by the House of Representatives and the Senate, and signed into law by President Barack Obama. In 2012, the Supreme Court held, by a vote of five to four with Chief Justice John Roberts (who was appointed by President George W. Bush) in the majority, that the law was constitutional. The health care law has been implemented within the requirement of both our Constitution and the Administrative Procedures Act, which controls the actions of federal agencies. This historic legislation is already providing millions Americans security in their health coverage by expanding Medicaid, allowing individuals to stay on their parent's health plan by through the age of 26, prohibiting the denial of coverage due to pre-existing conditions, and ensuring access to free preventative healthcare. More importantly, the new insurance exchanges that open on October 1st will provide unprecedented access for Americans to new and improved affordable health plans catered to their individual needs. It is clear that a government shutdown is a last ditch effort by Republicans to dismantle one of the most important reforms benefiting Americans in recent history, and I will not allow them to hold the government, federal workers, and the American people hostage in the name of obstructionism. I remain committed to finding a resolution to this unnecessary crisis as soon as possible, so that we can continue to focus on the recovery of our economy and on the real priorities of our nation: good jobs with benefits, comprehensive immigration reform, and the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Even high-profile Republicans agree that using a government shutdown to force extreme legislative priorities is a mistake. Governor Chris Christie described the threat of a shutdown as “irresponsible.” Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma said “shutting down the government doesn’t work". In relation to the specifics of a government shutdown, it is important to remember that the term “non-essential” has a broad definition that includes many functions of government. The list below briefly outlines services that will be effected due to a government shutdown:Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security: Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and other mandatory programs will not be affected. Federal Workers: About 800,000 federal employees will see their paychecks jeopardized or delayed. US military: The military's 1.4 million active-duty personnel will stay on duty, but barring the passage of any specific measures by Congress, their paychecks will be delayed. About half of the Defense Department's civilian employees will be furloughed. National Parks and Museums: All national parks and federal wildlife refuges would be closed for the duration of the shutdown. About 9 million visitors were turned away from parks, museums and monuments run by the National Park Service in the mid-1990s, the last time the government shut down temporarily. Science Nasa will furlough almost all of its employees, but it will continue to keep workers at Mission Control in Houston and elsewhere to support the International Space Station. The National Weather Service will keep forecasting weather and issuing warnings and the National Hurricane Center will continue to track storms. Travel/Visas Federal air traffic controllers will remain on the job and airport will continue to operate security checkpoints; delays are possible. Federal inspectors will continue enforcing safety rules. The State Department will continue processing foreign applications for visas and US applications for passports, since fees are collected to finance those services. Delays, however are expected due to a shutdown. Embassies and consulates overseas will continue to provide services to American citizens. Courts Federal courts will continue to operate normally for about 10 business days after the start of a shutdown. If the shutdown continues after such a point, the judiciary would have to begin furloughs of employees whose work is not considered essential. Cases would continue to be heard, however, in such a case. The US supreme court is scheduled to begin its new term on October 7. In previous government shutdowns, it continued to operate as normal. Mail Deliveries would continue as usual because the US Postal Service receives no tax dollars for day-to-day operations. It relies on income from stamps and other postal fees to keep running. Homeland security The majority of the Department of Homeland Security's employees are expected to stay on the job, including uniformed agents and officers at the country's borders and ports of entry, members of the Coast Guard, Transportation Security Administration officers, Secret Service personnel and other law enforcement agents and officers. US Citizenship and Immigration Services employees will continue to process green card applications. Veterans services Most services offered through the Department of Veterans Affairs will continue. Veterans will still be able to visit hospitals for inpatient care, mental health counseling, or get prescriptions filled at VA health clinics. Operators will still staff the crisis hotline and claims workers would still process payments to cover disability and pension benefits. Those veterans appealing the denial of disability benefits to the Board of Veterans Appeals will have to wait longer for a decision because the board would not issue any decisions during a shutdown.
09.30.2013	Press Statement THE SECURITY COUNCIL’S VOTE ON THIS RESOLUTION IS A GREAT MOMENT THAT SHOWS US THE TRUE POWER OF DIPLOMACY AND THE VALUE OF THE UNITED NATIONS This agreement is a positive step in the right direction and, as we proceed, the international community must focus on continuing the effort in a transparent, expeditious, and verifiable manner, which this resolution will help to ensure, says Rep. Jackson Lee Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent vote by the UN Security Council regarding Syria and its chemical weapons: “This important resolution that was voted on will require the destruction of a category of weapons that the Syrian government has used ruthlessly and repeatedly against its own people. And this resolution will make clear that there are going to be consequences for noncompliance. “This is very significant. This is the first time since the Syria conflict began 2 ½ years ago that the Security Council has imposed binding obligations on Syria – binding obligations of any kind. The resolution also establishes what President Obama has been emphasizing for many months: that the use of chemical weapons anywhere constitutes a threat to international peace and security. By establishing this, the Security Council is establishing a new international norm. “As you know, we went into these negotiations with a fundamental red line, which is that we would get in this resolution a reference to Chapter VII in the event of non-compliance and that we would get the Council committing to impose measures under Chapter VII if the Syrians did not comply with their binding, legal obligations. This resolution would not fall under Chapter VII of the UN charter, which would allow it to be enforced by military action. “If implemented fully, this resolution will eliminate one of the largest previously undeclared chemical weapons programs in the world, and this is a chemical weapons program that has sat precariously in one of the most volatile countries and in one of the most horrific civil wars the world has seen in a very long time. In the span of a few weeks, the curtain that hid this secret chemical weapons program has been lifted and the world is on the verge of requiring that these terrible weapons to be destroyed. “This resolution breaks new ground in another critical respect. For the first time, the Security Council is on the verge of coming together to endorse the Geneva Communiqué, calling for the establishment of a transitional governing body with full executive powers. If adopted, we will have achieved what we were unable to do before – unable to do for the last 2 ½ years – which is to fully endorse the Communiqué and call for the convening, as soon as possible, of an international conference on its implementation.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.30.2013	Press Statement REPUBLICAN PUSH TO DELAY THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WOULD HURT SENIORS AND WILL PRODUCE A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN The American people have worked too hard to recover from one crisis to another to see extremists in their Congress cause yet another one, says Rep. Jackson Lee Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, released the following statement in reference to the looming government shutdown: “The Affordable Care Act was passed by a majority of the House and a supermajority of the Senate, signed into law by the President, and upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court. Yet the majority continues to jeopardize the jobs and security of middle-class families in order to reverse the legitimate outcome. Today the Republicans plan to do the following: Attach a one-year delay of the implementation of the individual mandate of the Affordable Care Act; A repeal of the medical device provision; and A separate bill providing members of the military to continue receiving their paychecks in the event of a government shutdown. “Once again, House Republicans are acting irresponsibly by refusing to fund the government unless the Affordable Care Act is delayed for a year. This irresponsible brinksmanship is yet another part of the sustained, ongoing effort by a small minority to put Americans back at the mercy of insurance companies and drive up health costs. The Affordable Care Act already is working for American families. Young people can stay on their parents’ plan until they are 26 years old, millions of seniors are getting discounts on prescription drugs and insurance companies must spend money on patient care, not their profits or CEO bonuses. The law has already saved 77.8 million people $3.4 billion on their premiums and 8.5 million people are expected to get an average rebate of $100. Last year, 6.8 million consumers saved $1.2 billion on health insurance premiums thanks to the ‘rate review’ provisions in the Affordable Care Act that hold insurers accountable. And in just a few days, Americans around the country will have new options to purchase affordable health coverage. I call upon the House Republican leadership to bring up the clean continuing resolution already passed by the Senate so we can avoid shutting down the government and harming the economic recovery. “Rather than promote a clean Continuing Resolution for the American people the Republican majority is in conflict on how to make a decision. The Republican Speaker is having a fight within his own Republican conference. How shameful! The Republican Majority's refusal to work on a balanced plan to create jobs, to grow the economy and to invest in our future hurts our economy and threatens a government shutdown. With time running out, the Majority's decision to play politics may have dire consequences. “The Senate has acted in a clear way to keep government open. Instead, House Republicans are insisting on not one but two proposals to shut down the government. The Republican measure is a gift to the insurance companies by putting them back in charge of Americans’ health care, and it is a complete abdication of responsibility on the part of the House Republican leadership as they bow yet again to the ransom demands of the Tea Party. Republicans have made their point, now we have to end it. They must abandon this dangerous path to create a Republican Government Shutdown and work with Democrats on a responsible plan to keep the government working for the American people, responsibly reduce the deficit, and create economic prosperity and jobs for all middle class families. “A shutdown would hurt our economy through cuts or delays to paychecks for federal employees, shuttering economic engines including federal parks and other sites, and calling into question the U.S. government’s credit rating. We should be focused on jobs. Instead, Republicans want to play games of brinksmanship on the budget and the debt limit even though the foreseeable consequence will be plummeting stock markets and businesses freezing their hiring by shutting down the government. The Republican budget plan itself shortchanges American jobs in infrastructure, results in education and defense layoffs, closes Head Start and afterschool programs, and divests in health research. And the sequester, CBO tells us, will cost the U.S. economy up to 1.6 million jobs over the next year. “If Congress does not pass a budget by Monday – the end of the fiscal year – the government shuts down, along with many vital services the American people depend on. Yesterday, the Senate passed a bill to keep the government open. But Republicans in the House have been more concerned with appeasing an extreme faction of their party than working to pass a budget that creates new jobs or strengthens the middle class. And in the next couple days, these Republicans will have to decide whether to join the Senate and keep the government open, or create a crisis that will hurt people for the sole purpose of advancing their ideological agenda. “Past government shutdowns have disrupted the economy. This shutdown would, too. At a moment when our economy has steadily gained traction, and our deficits have been falling faster than at any time in 60 years, a shutdown would be a purely self-inflicted wound. And that is why many Republican Senators and Republican governors have urged Republicans in the House of Representatives to knock it off, pass a budget, and move on. I hope at some point we are able to agree on a bipartisan CR that can be enacted. The one before us is not it. Unfortunately, we will be back here again next week facing the same crisis. It is a sad commentary on the state of the Republican majority that its leaders are powerless to contain the most extreme voices clamoring for a path we know will disrupt the economy, kill jobs, and stunt growth. I urge the majority to end this dangerous charade and advance a Continuing Resolution capable of passing the Senate and being signed into law.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.25.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior ember of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement announcing the award of a $325,000 grant to the Greater Houston Fair Housing Center from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to facilitate compliance with fair housing laws in Houston and Harris County:“I am pleased to announce this substantial grant awarded to the Greater Houston Fair Housing Center, which will enable the organization to continue its vital work in the area of increasing compliance with the nation’s fair housing laws. The initiatives funded by this grant promote fair housing enforcement, outreach and education, and equal housing opportunity awareness. The fair housing initiatives also play a vital role in enhancing civil rights law enforcement efforts.”“I have always been an avid supporter of the rights of all Americans, regardless of race, family status, age, sex, national origin, or religion to receive fair and equal treatment regarding housing. The funding the Greater Houston area has received pursuant to the Fair Housing Initiative Grant Program that I have strongly supported has and is making a difference in the 18th Congressional District of Texas and across the nation. As we move forward as a country, it is important that we continue to eradicate discrimination in all areas of society. Fair housing initiatives and continued vigilance help us to do that.” ###
09.24.2013	Houston, TX – Congressional Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the Judiciary Committee and Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee for Border and Maritime Security, made the following statement at a press conference held today with Houstonians and law enforcement officials and others to discuss the impact on homeland security resulting from possible government shutdown: “I extend my deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of the 65 victims killed and 175 persons injured by the barbaric and depraved attack by al Shabaab terrorists on unarmed civilians at the Westgate Premier Shopping Mall in Nairobi, Kenya, the deadliest terror attack in Kenya since 1998 when al Qaeda blew up the U.S. Embassy there, killing 213 people.“President Kenyatta and the people of Kenya should know that the United States stands with them in their hour of grief and in their resolve to bring the perpetrators to justice and al Shabaab to heel. As President Kenyatta, who lost a nephew in the attack, has said of the al Shabaab terrorists: ‘They shall not get away with their despicable, beastly acts’ and will be brought to justice.“The attack at the Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi is a reminder of the what the impact could be of an attack on soft targets in the United States such shopping malls, hotels, movie theaters, sport stadiums, hospitals, schools, churches, and placs of worship.“As a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee, I am therefore announcing 4 initiatives:“I call for expanded eligibility for Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grant funds for local law enforcement personnel, including Houston constables.“I call for expanded utilization of local law enforcement personnel, including Constables here in Texas.“I call for greater cooperation and coordination between federal, state, and local law enforcement in the gathering and sharing of intelligence needed for them to protect and secure soft targets.I call for congressional hearings to discuss how to determine how to enhance protection of soft targets.“These initiatives ares especially important to our community because the greater Houston area has been regarded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to be among the highest threat urban areas in the nation. “Finally, I call upon the leaders in the House to abandon their strategy that puts could lead to a government shutdown which will put the security of our homeland nation at risk in a number of ways, including the termination of all training for law enforcement and the immediate furloughing of all DHS and FEMA personnel working on grants programs intended to help build state and local capacity to recover from natural disasters and public emergencies.” ###
09.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement in response to the shooting at the Washington Navy Yard in Washington, DC this morning: “Today is yet another sad day in our country because of an inexplicable shooting at the Washington Navy Yard in Washington, DC. I am deeply saddened to learn about those who have either lost their lives or have been wounded because of this incident. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of Washington Navy Yard community and anyone else personally impacted by this senseless act of violence. I am sure that everyone in the community of the Washington Navy Yard will do whatever they can in the coming days to ease the pain, tensions and concerns of all affected. “The Washington Navy Yard is a Military facility that includes many civilian workers serving this Nation. Any act such as this on domestic soil should be considered a terrorist act. I look forward to a complete investigation into the situation and will make sure that all resources needed are made available to the relevant entities. My prayers and condolences go first to the families of those wounded and I share the grief of everyone affected by this event. I applaud the swift work by the First Responders. Americans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This is one of those times.”###
09.11.2013	Press StatementWashington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement in response to the President’s address to the nation regarding the situation in Syria:“Tonight the President explained why the United States cannot turn a blind eye or deaf ear to the threat to American interests and internationals norms posed by the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime that killed innocent civilians, including hundreds of children. As the President stated, if the United States of America and the international community ‘fail to act, the Assad regime will see no reason to stop using chemical weapons’ and ‘as the ban against these weapons erodes, other tyrants will have no reason to think twice about acquiring poison gas and using them’ on their own people or even against American troops on the battlefield. The President reminded us of our humanity by referring to the dead bodies of Syrian children on cold hospital floors as a result of being attacked by chemical weapons.“We cannot let the chemical weapons of today become the conventional weapons of tomorrow. The question before us is how to best achieve this goal.“While demonstrating conviction and resolve, President Obama also has acted wisely in listening to the American people and consulting their representatives in the Congress and in his willingness to explore diplomatic solutions to this crisis. I support him in this effort and I remain committed to reviewing all of the classified information before I make a decision on behalf of my constituents who have been very vocal in their concern about our country entering into another war. I agree with them.“Now we have a chance to secure a diplomatic and peaceful solution that might achieve the goal of deterring and preventing Syria from using these awful weapons again. Success in this effort may also help lead to the end of the civil war raging in Syria and enable Syrian men, women, and children to lead normal lives free of fear and want and war. The President’s credible threat of military force has led to the unprecedented acknowledgment by the Assad regime that it possessed chemical weapons and its expressed willingness to sign and comply with the Chemical Weapons Convention. I think the delay on a Congressional vote is a wise and effective decision which will enable all of us to work toward peace which should be the final objective of all sides involved.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.11.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Michael J. McQuerrySeptember 11, 2013 202-225-7080Press Release Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the anniversary of 9/11:“Twelve years ago, the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, changed our world. Today, we reflect on the ways that we have changed in the wake of that dark day; we reflect on both heroism and mistakes, on brave sacrifices and on the deaths of so many we loved.“But some things, those deepest and closest to what we are as a nation, have not changed. We still stand united in memory of the dead. We still stand in awe of the heroic sacrifices that graced that day, and so many since. We still stand in resolve to defend our nation and its most sacred ideals: ideals like freedom of conscience, the rule of law, and religious tolerance. “There are many who have been born into a world in which 9/11 has to be told to them as opposed to them having experienced it. But we mark this memorial in order to reclaim some of the unity that was ours on that day—so that, whether or not we were there, whether or not we lost those we love, we can take time from our lives to comfort one another, to reflect with one another, and to teach one another.“As long as we live, we will tell the stories of the persons who died and were injured and of their families who suffered on that fatal day and also of the first responders, including firefighters and police officers, who sacrificed on that day. We will tell the story of the heroism of the passengers of United Flight 93. We will tell the story of the troops who have served and are serving under our flag, far from home, and of the thousands who have lost their lives in our nation’s service. And we will renew our resolve: our resolve to defend America from those who mean it harm with all of the tools at our disposal; our resolve to the principles that give our nation its meaning and mission; and our resolve to remain, in the face of all threats, a fearless, strong, and united people.”###
09.10.2013	Press StatementCONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE ANNOUNCES THAT TSA PRE✓™ EXPANDS TO HOUSTON’S WILLIAM P. HOBBY AIRPORTMore Passengers Able to Experience Expedited Screening Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and former Chairwoman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the announcement by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) that it will expand its TSA expedited screening program to 60 new airports, one of those being Houston’s William P. Hobby Airport:“I am pleased to announce that William P. Hobby Airport will now be a part of TSA Pre✓™ which is an expedited screening program that allows pre-approved airline travelers to leave on their shoes, light outerwear and belt, keep their laptop in its case and their 3-1-1 compliant liquids/gels bag in a carry-on in select screening lanes. To date, more than 15 million passengers have experienced TSA Pre✓™ since it launched in October 2011.“As TSA continues to move away from a one-size-fits-all approach to transportation security, they are now looking for more opportunities to provide the most effective security in the most efficient way possible. Expanding TSA Pre✓™ to more locations enables many more passengers across the country to experience expedited screening.“Passengers who are eligible for TSA Pre✓™ include U.S. citizens of frequent traveler programs invited by participating airlines. Additionally, U.S. citizens who are members of a U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Trusted Traveler program and Canadian citizens who are members of CBP’s NEXUS program qualify to participate.“I will continue to work with TSA to ensure that this new Risk Assessment program protects the flying public and expedites the security screening process while at the same time guards traveler's private information. I hope the expansion of an expedited screening process will reduce waiting times and inconvenience at check points."###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.04.2013	PRESS STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON LEE RESPONDS TO STABBING INCIDENT AT SPRING HIGH SCHOOL Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement in response to the stabbing Spring High School:“Today is yet another sad day in our country because of senseless violence at Spring High School. I am deeply saddened to learn about those who have been wounded because of this incident and for those who have lost their life. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and students of the Spring High School community and those who have been injured and anyone else personally impacted by this senseless act of violence. I am sure that everyone in the community of the Spring Independent School District will do whatever they can in the coming days to ease the pain, tensions and concerns of all affected.“My prayers and condolences go first to the families of those wounded and I share the grief of everyone affected by this event. I applaud the swift work by the First Responders. Americans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This is one of those times.”###
09.03.2013	Statement of Congresswoman Jackson Lee Regarding the Situation in SyriaWashington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today regarding the situation in Syria:"I extend my deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims killed or injured by the horrific and unjustifiable use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime against an unarmed civilian population in the suburbs of Damascus. This attack claimed the lives of 1,429 persons, including at least 426 children. The international community, joined by the United States, should act expeditiously to provide humanitarian assistance and relief, including doctors and medical supplies to ameliorate the suffering of the victims of this senseless attack.“The world learned through the painful experience of World War I the horror and inhumanity of chemical weapons, which cause unspeakable suffering and kill indiscriminately as we saw in the 1980s when Saddam Hussein’s regime used them in Iraq’s war with Iran and later against its own people. The international community cannot again let such an attack go unanswered for to do so will embolden other rogue regimes and terrorists.“The question is not whether the United States and the international community should act, but what actions should be taken. I commend President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry for the thoughtful and deliberative manner in which they have handled the ongoing crisis in Syria. I especially appreciate their recognition of the importance of genuine consultation and collaboration with the Congress in reaching a decision regarding the use of military force.“The best way to ensure there is genuine, informed, and substantive collaboration between the executive and legislative branches is for there to be frequent classified briefings with the members of the congressional committees of jurisdiction, including Intelligence, Armed Services, Homeland Security, and Foreign Affairs.“If time is of the essence, the Congress can be called back to Washington for this purpose by the President or the congressional leadership.“Americans abhor and are weary of war, especially long wars with no end in sight like Iraq. The war in Iraq taught this nation the importance of having accurate and reliable information when deciding whether to use military force and the painful cost in lives and treasure of acting precipitously. But the last decade also showed us the devastation that can be wrought when dangerous weapons find their way into the hands of dangerous people.“The President, as Commander in Chief, is charged with the responsibility of deciding when to use military force to protect the nation and its interests. But he does not bear this weighty burden alone. The Constitution wisely divides this responsibility with the Congress, the representatives of the American people.“I stand ready to work with the Administration to make the right decision for our country and am prepared to return to Washington immediately if necessary.”###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.28.2013	AUGUST 28, 2013 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jackson Lee marked the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, where Dr. Martin Luther King gave his historic “I Have A Dream” speech that inspired a nation. More than 200,000 people – of all races and backgrounds – came from all over the country to participate in the March, calling for fundamental social and economic justice for all Americans, at a time when many public facilities in regions of the country were still segregated. “This massive March helped to awaken the conscience of the country,” Rep. Jackson Lee pointed out. “Less than one year after the March, on July 2, 1964, President Lyndon Johnson signed the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the most sweeping civil rights bill since Reconstruction, into law. Then, a year later, on August 6, 1965, President Johnson signed the landmark 1965 Voting Rights Act, which has helped secure the right to vote for millions of Americans, into law.” “Over the last 50 years, key progress has been made in moving forward on the vision of America that Dr. King laid out in his ‘I Have A Dream’ speech,” Rep. Jackson Lee pointed out. “And yet more progress needs to be made.”“The first key step that Congress must take this year is to restore the power of the Voting Rights Act by enacting a legislative fix in response to the damaging 5-4 Supreme Court decision in June, which took a step backwards on the Voting Rights Act by declaring part of it unconstitutional,” Rep. Jackson Lee stated. “This legislative fix must be designed to ensure that the Voting Rights Act continues to fully protect the right to vote for years to come.”“Further, to live up to Dr. King’s vision, we must all work together to significantly expand economic and educational opportunity to all Americans – no matter what their race or ethnic origin,” Rep. Jackson Lee concluded. “We must ensure that ladders of opportunity are available to every American. By taking such steps as expanding early childhood education, making college more affordable, investing in effective job training, and raising the minimum wage, we can do much more to expand opportunity. We must continue to strive until Dr. King’s vision is finally realized and America fully lives up to its true promise and ideals.”###
08.27.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Homeland Security committee, released the following statement regarding her remarks today at the 95th Annual Meeting of the American Legion in Houston, TX:“Today I spoke to the American Legion as they held their 95th National Convention here in the 18th Congressional District. Having traveled to many of the war zones across the world it was an honor to bring them greetings from the 18th Congressional District. The American Legion is the nation’s largest wartime veterans’ service organization committed to honor, national security, and continued devotion to our fellow service members and veterans is important to me as a member of Congress because you are a important voice fir veterans in the Greater Houston Area.“I count as one of my constituents the Dr. Michael DeBakey VA Medical Center, and I am proud to say to my colleagues in Washington DC that Harris County is home to 187,717 veterans and our great state serves the needs of 1,618,413 veterans. Our veterans never fail to respond to the call to serve their country. That is why we cannot and must not fail to serve them. And that begins by eliminating the back log. Veterans should not have to wait months to receive the care they need.“We must continue our partnership to end veteran homelessness and increase benefits for veterans to assure they have access to healthcare, education and good paying jobs. Perhaps, the most pressing need is to increase veteran mental health awareness and treatment of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) which I talked also talked about. PTSD is a serious mental heath disorder that affects an estimated 7.8 percent of Americans at some point in their lives. About 3.6 percent of U.S. adults aged 18 to 54 (5.2 million people) have PTSD during the course of a given year. I recently had an amendment added to the 2014 Defense Authorization Bill that will increase the Defense Health Program’s Research and Development account for $5oo,ooo for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).“Yet, as American soldiers, they are trained to suppress the agonizing grief associated with those horrible experiences and are expected to continue on with the mission. “My thanks to the American Legion for your leadership generation after generation as the ranks of Veterans transition from new veterans returning home from war for the first time, those who have laid down their uniform for another career and as well as those who are well into their retirement years. Caring for our veterans should not be a partisan issue, but an American one. I will redouble my efforts to assure that as our men an woman fight under one flag so should we as members of Congress do the same when we work on their behalf.”###
08.27.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced today that $520,000 has been awarded to Change Happens!, a Houston-nonprofit by the CSAT of the Dept of HHS.“This significant grant will enable Change Happens! to continue its exceptional record of helping to rebuild broken lives of those who have been victims of substance abuse. Change Happens! provides a great amount of effective programs and services that assist youth. Change Happens! also provides intervention programs for positive youth development, adult substance abuse prevention, HIV/AIDS programs, homelessness prevention, and much more.”“Change Happens! is a local nonprofit community based program that currently offers individual counseling, supportive services for the homeless to individuals and families in more than 20 shelters, and programs geared toward preventing youth from engaging in risky behavior such as teen pregnancy. Finally, they also offer after school programs as well as jumpstarts to keep our youth safe as well as continuously learning even out of the classroom setting. All of these programs will be and are currently beneficial and much needed in building up the Houston area.“Studies have indicated that one out every five Houstonians (665,000) suffer from some form of mental illness and of these, 181,690 have suffered from serious mental illness. Today, Texas ranks 49th in state per capita mental health funding. The consequences of mental health are great if not treated properly and can hinder ones cognitive ability to complete, let alone perform simple tasks. Twenty percent of children and adolescents ages 9 through 17 struggle in the Houston area with mental disorders. One of the most severe consequences of untreated mental health disease is a decrease in a person’s life expectancy by 25 years. “Change Happens! continues to educate 100,000 individuals in Houston local neighborhoods. Today, Change Happens! is housed in its brand new three-story, 27,000 square foot building in Houston’s Third Ward. The building holds much meaning and value after once being occupied by crack house. What an amazing transformation which communicates to Third Ward communities that with hard work and dedication, change can and will happen.“Since 1989, Change Happens! has come a long way from one program to now 18 programs and growing and has employed over 50 serving and devoted individuals. What once used to only serve Third Ward is now also encompassing 13 other counties in the Gulf Coast region. Change Happens! has been proudly known to offer programs that change their client’s lives and gives them hope to hold on to for a lifetime.“I congratulations Change Happens! on being selected for this grant and thank HHS for recognizing the contribution of this great community organization . This grant will have a positive impact in our community and I am a proud to have supported the legislation that made funding this grant possible.” ###
08.27.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement in regards to a Grant awarded to the city of Houston today:“Today I want to announce $9,880,000.00 in grants awarded to the City of Houston. This grant will provide federal funding for the George Bush International Airport in Houston, TX. This grant will provide a rehabilitative apron which is needed in order to maintain structural integrity of the pavement surrounding the airport.“I have been a big supporter of Houston’s largest international airport as a member of the Committee of Homeland Security. My history with airport improvement regimes have spanned many years. I have strived to reduce the noise pollution that plagues areas around the airport by contacting the Chair and Ranking Members of both the House (Knollenberg, Olver) and Senate (Bond, Murray) appropriations subcommittees with jurisdiction over airport noise mitigation grant programs. “On June 12, I wrote letters to Transportation Secretary Mineta and Acting FAA Administrator Marion Blakey seeking their assistance “in securing funding under the Airport Improvement Program for noise compatibility projects designed to reduce the noise in certain areas of Harris County affected by the George H.W. Bush Houston Intercontinental Airport, even though the Day-Night Average sound level (DNL) of these areas currently is not more than 65 db(A).” All airport improvements have been priorities of mine and fueled my persistence in obtaining this grant. I also sought to seek environmentally sound airport vehicles to transfer passengers to and from terminals by switching airport transit vehicles from diesel burning vans.”One of the advantages of modern life is the convenience of air travel. America’s air transportation system is the best and safest in the world. This grant gives Houston’s own George Bush International Airport the funding necessary to maintain and improve the airport’s current condition. Our City’s international airport should remain one of the best in the world.”###
08.27.2013	August 26, 2013 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, views the Syrian crisis as creating antagonism that could promote terrorist attacks around the world. The Congresswoman released the following statement:“Over a year ago the President expressed his red line as it relates to Syria. That red line included the use of chemical weapons on the Syrian people by the Syrian government. It now appears as if the Syrian government has used chemical weapons. If this is true it now calls for the world’s attention. Any response should include collaboration with other nations and consultation with the United Nations to figure out what weapons have been used. Congress must be engaged and we must be sensitive to the needs of the American people and the Syrian people.“After more than two years of bloodshed, the crisis in Syria has reached a decisive moment. Syria today is the scene of some of the worst state-sponsored violence since Milosevic’s war crimes in the Balkans. And the bloodshed continues, with no end in sight. We now have a raging war in Syria and an international response is needed immediately.”###
08.27.2013	August 26, 2013 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today in recognition of Women’s Equality Day:“On the 93rd anniversary of Women’s Equality Day, Americans celebrate the life and legacy of generations of American women. From Seneca Falls, to the activism and determination of later generations, American women have been at the forefront of the cause of women’s equality at home and abroad. We have marched for our civil rights – the right to vote, the right to equal pay, and the right to accessible and affordable health care. “Just as past generations of women have demanded equality, so too must a new generation of American women be bold. In Congress today, 62 women Members of the House Democratic Caucus – the most in history – are heeding the call to address the pressing issues confronting women today.“In America, women still earn 78 cents for every dollar men make, women are forced to choose between caring for a sick child and their job, and millions of women and their families lack access to quality, affordable child care. In order to correct these wrongs, House Democrats have unveiled our economic agenda: When Women Succeed, America Succeeds. “On this Women’s Equality Day, let us rededicate ourselves to unleashing the potential of women, knowing that in America, when women succeed, America succeeds.”# # #
08.27.2013	August 26, 2013 Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus and Member of the House Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, released the following statement after attending the first day of school at local Houston Independent School District schools:“Today I visited with excited students for their first day of school at E. W. Cullen Middle School, Thurgood Marshall Elementary School and Baylor College of Medicine Academy at Ryan. Our children are our most precious resource and I thought it was important today to welcome many of the children who are facing the change of a new school to let them know that we care about them and their education is our first priority and that we look forward to ensuring that their future is bright.“I have been an advocate on behalf of children since I have been a Member of Congress. I co-founded the Congressional Children’s Caucus to address the daunting challenges that face our children today, including child health care, substance abuse, teen pregnancy, early childhood development, juvenile crime, poverty, hunger, child abuse, neglect, adoption, bullying and foster care.“I know that change for some of the children will be tough and I was delighted to be joined with other local officials to show them a welcome face on their first day back to school. Today, everyone can see what I have long known – our educators are working hard and our students are learning. Our approach, with great educators in every building and strong curriculum in all our schools, is working and we are on the right track. I am very proud of our progress, I am encouraged by our gains and I am excited for the work ahead.”###
08.27.2013	August 22, 2013 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after President Obama unveiled new proposals to address the rising higher education costs at a speech at SUNY Buffalo:“President Obama’s proposals are a bold step toward keeping higher education within reach for millions of middle class families and low-income students in America. The President’s key principles of access, affordability, and outcomes are critical goals toward securing the role of America’s institutions of higher education as global leaders.“Investing in the education of our children is the greatest safeguard of our nation’s future – ensuring that another generation will once again out-invent, out-innovate, and out-manufacture the rest of the world. House Democrats share the President’s commitment and we are committed ensuring a higher education is not just a luxury for the few, but an opportunity for all.”# # #
08.21.2013	April 20, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement:In February Transportation Security Administration (TSA) chief John Pistole issued a memorandum permitting collective bargaining for TSA employees. As of March 9, 2011, more than 40,000 Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) have the option to vote if they want to be represented by a union – and if so, by which union (two unions, the American Federation of Government Employees and the National Treasury Employees Union, are on the ballot). TSOs have repeatedly declared that they want a union in order to combat arbitrary actions by supervisors, to develop a transparent system for performance evaluations and to create a formal grievance procedure to put an end to selective discipline. “Yesterday, we witnessed democracy in action as 42,000 Transportation Security Officers (TSOs), who are currently working to protect our country, voted on their right to collective bargaining. Nearly 84% of TSOs voters chose to support their right to collective bargaining. Although this vote has resulted in a runoff it is important to note that Transportation Security Officers have chosen to express their opinions via the ballot box. As this decision does not affect our Nation’s security and reflects the democratic principles upon which this country is founded, I support this election process and look forward to implementation of the result, “commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.“I am committed to ensuring that their privacy rights are protected, that this investigation is handled with the attention it warrants, and that we exercise intense oversight with regards to security at the TSA," said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee.Chairman Thompson issued the following statement regarding the issue:“At over 84 percent, today’s vote results show that our Nation’s Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) overwhelmingly want collective bargaining rights. This is something many of us have been fighting for since TSA was created. Collective bargaining can actually enhance workforce productivity, morale, and TSA’s mission without diminishing our security. I look forward to working with TSA to implement these rights soon after the final election.”Tuesday was the last day of voting in what has been the largest ev­er fed­eral union orga­nizing effort. With 44,000 people in the Trans­portation Secu­rity Admin­istration bargain­ing unit, it also is the largest current union campaign in the nation. ###
08.21.2013	April 08, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement examining the recent attack at Camp Ashraf.On Sunday April 3, 2011, Iraqi soldiers equipped with tanks entered Camp Ashraf. At least three Iranians were killed and 14 wounded, while six Iraqi soldiers were injured. U.S. forces handed over the responsibility for security at the camp to Iraqi authorities in February 2009.“I want to express my deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the attack at Camp Ashraf in Iraq. I believe the military actions taken by the government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki are a clear violation of a written promise to the United States to protect these refugees,” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson LeeThis is not the first incident of this kind at Camp Ashraf. On July 28, 2009, Iraqi Security Forces conducted a raid on the Camp. The raid occurred five months after the U.S. passed control of Camp Ashraf to the government of Iraq. This attack resulted in the death of 11 refugees and the injury of over 400 more. “I believe this tragedy should further underscore the need for Iraqi officials to protect Camp Ashraf residences. I call for the immediate removal of military forces from the camp’s demilitarized interior and I will call upon the US State Department to demand that Iraq cease the violence in Camp Ashraf,” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee“I have stated time and again, the only effective way to achieve lasting peace and prosperity in the region, along with bringing about reforms in Iran’s polity, is to assist the Iranian people in their quest to achieve political, social, and religious liberty,” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson LeeCongresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee has long been an advocate of a free, independent, and democratic Iran. ###
08.21.2013	April 8, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Transportation Security, released the following statement denouncing the ethnic slayings in the African nation of Ivory Coast.“We must call for an immediate increase of UN Peacekeepers to be deployed in Ivory Coast along with the constructive involvement of the African Union to help bring an end to this terrible state of national unrest that is costing innocent men, women and children to lose their lives at an astoundingly high rate. We must press the international community of peace loving nations to weigh-in on this matter and join us in calling for an immediate cease-fire and restoration of stability in this war ravaged nation” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Ivory Coast (also known as Cote d’ Ivoire) has experienced a pattern of violent ethnic slayings of innocent people who have been caught in the crossfire of an apparent battle between internationally recognized Ivory Coast President Alassane Ouattara and rival incumbent Laurent Gbagbo, who is blockaded in a bunker in Abidjan. On April 7, 2011, a team of UN Human Rights workers reported finding more than 100 victims of apparent ethnic killings in western Ivory Coast. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights reported that all the slayings appear to be ethnically motivated.Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee expressed her profound dismay over the continued senseless and brutal slayings and the fact that innocent people continued to be needlessly slaughtered in the ensuing violence in Ivory Coast. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee further commented that “The people of Ivory Coast deserve the chance to live in a humane and peaceful society ruled by a stable government; a place where they can raise and educate their children to become productive citizens of the world.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee expressed her firm belief that the world community cannot afford to sit idly by and witness the slaughter of innocents. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee declared, “The world is watching and we cannot afford to be silent when so many lives and the most basic of international human rights are at stake. I am calling for increased international involvement to end this tragic state of affairs, I am reminded of the timeless and profound words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who proclaimed that ‘Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.’” ###
08.21.2013	March 30, 2011WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), ranking member of the House Homeland Security Committee on Transportation Security and recent member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, condemned the discriminatory and violent treatment of Eman al-Obeidy. Eman al-Obeidy recently reported that she had been raped by members of the Qaddafi regime. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee issued the following statement regarding the issue:“This violent sexual assault must be investigated, and Ms. Al-Obeidy’s safety must be ensured. This brutal crime is further evidence of the cruelty of Colonel Qaddafi’s regime. In addition, to killing thousands of innocent civilians, the Libyan government is also allowing violent discriminatory actions to be freely committed against the women of Libya. This is unacceptable, and is strong evidence that humanitarian efforts must be increased. I call on the Allied Nations to ensure Ms. Al-Obeidy’s safe passage out of Libya. Further, I call on the United Nations to condemn these actions, and work to prevent their future occurrence. ###
08.21.2013	March 28, 2011Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, wrote a letter to President Obama on March 22, 2011 regarding U.S. involvement in Libya. In her letter to the President, Congresswoman Jackson Lee called for the U.N. Security Council to reconvene in order to assess future steps in Libya. Congresswoman Jackson Lee will be looking for the President to develop an exit strategy for American troops, and a strategy to maintain peace in Libya in collaboration with the Allied Nations. Below is an excerpt from Congresswoman Jackson Lee’s letter to President Obama:“I believe it is in the national security interest of the United States that we help the parties move quickly to a cease fire and a resolution occurs in which United States forces leave Libya. The United Nations should reconvene the National Security Council to stabilize Libya, work with the League of Arab States, and assess next steps.Finally, the Congresswoman is disappointed with Republican Presidential contenders for their back-stepping and politicizing an important humanitarian effort. It is difficult to understand statements made by Republican Presidential contenders for supporting the humanitarian efforts and now criticizing the coalition of military efforts, which is the same approach used by President Bush in Iraq, which they supported vigorously.Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee will be available for comment immediately following the President’s speech on Libya tonight. All interested media should contact Drew Stout at drew.stout@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-7080. ###
08.21.2013	March 23, 2011Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, sent a letter to President Obama regarding U.S. military actions in Libya. Below is the full text of the letter: March 22, 2011The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United States of AmericaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President: As the world watched the apparent slaughter of the Libyan people, something had to be done. I applaud both your concern and leadership when you said “we are answering the calls of a threatened people, and we are acting in the interests of the United States and the world.” Further, the decision by the United Nations Security Council in Resolution 1973 was an important step showing the collaboration of many nations to help stop the slaughter of the Libyan people. I believe it was important for America to be involved in this humanitarian effort that the League of Arab States supported. I believe it is crucial because of the Constitutional requirement of Article I, Section 8, that the efforts of the United States are strictly humanitarian in conjunction with United Nations resources to help the Libyan people. Mr. President, I therefore respectfully request that America’s military operation cease at a time certain in a few days as you stated: “I authorized the armed forces of the United States to begin a limited military action in Libya in support of an international effort to protect Libyan civilians.” “Days, not weeks,” as stated during your congressional briefing. If this is not the intent of our government, then I believe it is imperative to bring a resolution to the Congress asking for a declaration of war under Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution. Mr. President, the United States military is engaged in military action in Iraq and Afghanistan with many more forces stationed in difficult places around the world. I believe it is in the national security interest of the United States that we help the parties move quickly to a cease fire and a resolution occurs in which United States forces leave Libya. The United Nations should reconvene the National Security Council to stabilize Libya, work with the League of Arab States, and assess next steps. I await your response while I also acknowledge the brave men and women of the United States Military. Again, thank you for your leadership on behalf of the American people. Very truly yours, Sheila Jackson Lee MEMBER OF CONGRESS
08.21.2013	March 18, 2011WASHINGTON- Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and recent member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, calls for an immediate end to the civilian casualties resulting from the Allied bombings in Libya. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee issued the following statement on the airstrikes in Libya:“With the horrible atrocities occurring in Libya as a result of the violent acts of the Qaddafi regime, I am glad that the United States and the other Allied forces took steps to ensure that the bloodshed would end. However, I want to ensure that the U.S. and the Allied forces remained focused on the mission of imposing a no-fly zone by destroying Col. Qaddafi’s air defense capabilities, while at the same time providing critical humanitarian aid to the devastated in Libya. I am extremely concerned about the reports of civilian losses as a result of the Allied bombings. This is contrary to the beliefs of our Nation and to the agreed upon actions by the United Nations Security Council. Over the weekend, British, French, and U.S. forces began performing airstrikes in Libya in attempts to disarm their air defense capabilities. Libyan state media declared that the bombings resulted in civilian losses, but the Allied forces have denied this allegation. However, British military forces aborted a bombing mission at the last minute as updated information confirmed civilians within intended target areas. Last week, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee called for the U.S. to implement a no-fly zone in Libya, however, she also calls for implementation that does not hinder our Nation’s ability to concentrate on humanitarian relief. “A no-fly zone can be implemented without civilian casualties. Therefore I believe it is crucial because of the Constitutional requirement of Article I, Section 8, Clause 11, that the efforts of the United States are strictly humanitarian in conjunction with United Nations resources to help the Libyan people,” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “Further, hundreds of thousands of people have been displaced by the military conflict in Libya, and thousands have been killed or injured by the violent acts of the Qaddafi regime. That is why I desperately urge the United States to increase its focus on providing much needed humanitarian relief to the devastated in Libya.”Additionally, the devastation in Libya continues to grow. According to a spokesman for the Libyan rebels, 8000 have been killed since the conflicts began. Additionally, the Red Cross estimates that more than 300,000 rebels have fled Libya since the beginning of the conflict, and many of these are living extremely poor living circumstances. As a recent member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee as well as founder and chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee has been an advocate of humanitarian causes, particularly in those areas devastated by military conflicts. In 2009, Congresswoman Jackson Lee supported the Iraqi Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons Humanitarian Assistance, Resettlement, and Security Act of 2009 and she was the author of the resolution to recognize the disproportionate impact of the global food crisis on children in the developing world.“Our country is engaged in military action in Iraq and Afghanistan that are both costly in terms of economic resources and sacrifices by our Nation’s armed forces. The United States cannot afford to enter into another military effort that does not have clear goals or an exit strategy,” declared Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “Therefore, I urge President Obama to stand by his original authorization of a limited military action that will occur over ‘days, not weeks.’ The United Nations should reconvene the National Security Council to stabilized Libya, work with the Arab League, and assess next steps.###
08.21.2013	March 17, 2011HOUSTON – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the atrocities in Libya:“With blood running in the streets of Libya and with the leader of the country with obvious disdain for his people and disregard for the responsibilities of sovereign nations, I call on the United States to urgently engage the United Nations so that a unified voice can arise denouncing the violence in Libya, and so that a strategy can be developed that will result in the removal of the Qaddafi government. I applaud President Obama for issuing sanctions and freezing the assets of the Qaddafi regime and his family, but we cannot take our eye off of the situation in Libya. The Qaddafi regime continues to slaughter innocent people and impose vicious tyranny on the people of Libya. We cannot stand by and do nothing, and America cannot do this alone. We must have unified voices from NATO, the United Nations, the African Union, and other world groups to stop the slaughter and violence against the people of Libya.”“As a Member of Congress, I am calling on my colleagues to join me in calling attention to the plight of the people of Libya and their fight for freedom, justice, and deliverance from Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi,” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “I stand with the people of Libya fighting for peace and freedom and Libyan-Americans, and I demand an end to the mass murder by the Qaddafi forces that are going on today. I further call upon the return to nonviolence and the immediate acceptance by Col. Qaddafi that he must step down now and leave Libya now! The Libyan people deserve a nonviolent democratic nation in which they can thrive, prosper, and provide for their families and children, and I am proud to stand with Libyan-Americans who are nonviolently protesting on behalf of their native land.” ###
08.21.2013	March 17, 2011 HOUSTON – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the atrocities in Libya:“With blood running in the streets of Libya and with the leader of the country with obvious disdain for his people and disregard for the responsibilities of sovereign nations, I call for a No Fly Zone to be immediately implemented. Thousands of innocent people are dying in Libya, and we cannot stand silent any longer. A No Fly Zone is not an act of war, but rather an act of mercy and compassion for the people of Libya. Col. Qaddafi and his ruthless regime are committed to the deathly destruction of all of his opponents.”“I applaud President Obama for issuing sanctions and freezing the assets of the Qaddafi regime and his family, but we cannot take our eye off of the situation in Libya. The Qaddafi regime continues to slaughter innocent people and impose vicious tyranny on the people of Libya. We cannot stand by, and America cannot do this alone. We must have unified voices from NATO, the United Nations, the African Union, and other world groups to stop the slaughter and violence against the people of Libya,” commented Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “As a Member of Congress, I am calling on my colleagues to join me in calling for a No Fly Zone“I stand with the people of Libya fighting for peace and freedom and Libyan-Americans, and I demand an end to the mass murder by the Qaddafi forces that are going on today. I further call upon the return to nonviolence and the immediate acceptance by Col. Qaddafi that he must step down now and leave Libya now!” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “The Libyan people deserve a nonviolent democratic nation in which they can thrive, prosper, and provide for their families and children, and I am proud to stand with Libyan-Americans who are nonviolently protesting on behalf of their native land.” ###
08.21.2013	February 27, 2011HOUSTON – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), senior member of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committee and recent member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement regarding the atrocities in Libya:“With blood running in the streets of Libya and with the leader of the country with obvious disdain for his people and disregard for the responsibilities of sovereign nations, I call on the United States to urgently engage the United Nations so that a unified voice can arise denouncing the violence in Libya, and so that a strategy can be developed that will result in the removal of the Qaddafi government. I applaud President Obama for issuing sanctions and freezing the assets of the Qaddafi regime and his family, but America cannot do this alone. We must have unified voices from NATO, the United Nations, the African Union, and other world groups to stop the slaughter and violence against the people of Libya.”“As a Member of Congress, I am calling on my colleagues to join me in calling attention to the plight of the people of Libya and their fight for freedom, justice, and deliverance from Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi,” commented Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “I stand with the people of Libya fighting for peace and freedom and Libyan-Americans, and I demand an end to the mass murder by the Qaddafi forces that are going on today. I further call upon the return to nonviolence and the immediate acceptance by Col. Qaddafi that he must step down now and leave Libya now! The Libyan people deserve a nonviolent democratic nation in which they can thrive, prosper, and provide for their families and children, and I am proud to stand with Libyan-Americans who are nonviolently protesting on behalf of their native land.”###
08.21.2013	February 21, 2011HOUSTON – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee who formerly served on the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East, issued the following statement on the violence in Libya:“I denounce the violence in Libya and denounce the words of Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, who in essence said that he will fight until the last man, the last woman, and the last bullets no longer exist. It is a shameful reaction and the people who love democracy must speak out against the violence and the forces behind it. I commend President Obama and the United States State Department on speaking out against the situation in Libya, and I stand ready to assist them in any way. The people of the Middle East see our country as a beacon of democracy, and they know that they can count our support to assist democracy. I also urge the U.N. General Secretary to call for a meeting of the U.N. National Security Council to give guidance to communicate to Col. Mummar el-Qaddafi and Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi to leave the country. The world cannot sit by while blood runs in the streets of Libya, and everyone must denounce their actions as an extension of pushing back on Al-Qaeda, the Muslim Brotherhood, and all other terrorist forces that disrupt the democratic process. America’s job is not to engage militarily, but to use every democratic tool to fight for justice.”Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee was on MSNBC’s “Jansing and Co.” when the breaking news came that U.N. Secretary General and Mummar el-Qaddafi had begun an extensive conversation. During the show, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee said, “I condemn with all of my heart, the violence in Libya, and I hope the world stands up against what I perceive to be an impending slaughter. It is unheard of and we must stand against that violence……Mummar el-Qaddafi ……he needs to leave, his son needs to leave and the protestors need to be [helped to move towards] a transitional democratic government.” ###
08.21.2013	August 5, 2010 HOUSTON, TX – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection, released the following statement regarding the Senate’s decision to approve legislation ending a two-week partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration.“Yesterday, I called for Congress to return to session, within 24 hours, in order to pass the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act. I am pleased that Congress was able to act on this issue and today, I applaud the end of this two-week partial shutdown of the FAA. It would have been unconscionable in this time of economic uncertainty to allow 74,000 workers to remain limbo until September.”Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee has been a vocal advocate for the FAA as an important vehicle in our nation’s economic recovery. The FAA has the ability to create meaningful and rewarding employment in cities across the country and in Houston, the fourth largest city in the country. “Today’s drastic decline in our financial markets should serve as a reminder of the fragility of our economic recovery, and should move us to reaffirm our commitment to economic policies that will get our nation back on the path to prosperity. This shut down resulted in the halt of key infrastructure projects, such as the $25 million dollar construction replacement of TRACON in Houston.”Congresswoman Jackson Lee added, “Although this is not a perfect solution and there remains work to be done, it is a step in the right direction to ensure that thousands of transportation and construction workers will have a pay check at a time when our economy is fragile.” ###
08.16.2013	Houston, Texas – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee announced that $785,000 has been awarded in Navigator grants to Change Happens, a non-profit organization located in Houston. The organization and its staff will provide in-person assistance to consumers in Harris County who want additional help in shopping for and enrolling in plans in the Health Insurance Marketplaces beginning this fall.“The Navigators will be a key resource to help many consumers in our communities understand their coverage options in the Marketplace,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee said. “There will also be many other resources to assist with enrollment. Community health centers are preparing to help enroll consumers in coverage. In addition, the Department of Health and Human Services has also begun training other individuals who will be providing in-person assistance, such as agents and brokers and certified application counselors.”The Navigators will be trained to provide unbiased information, in a culturally competent manner, to consumers about the Health Insurance Marketplaces, qualified health plans, and public programs such as Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program. They will also be trained on adhering to strict security and privacy standards – including how to safeguard a consumer’s personal information – and will be required to meet these standards. They will be subject to federal criminal penalties for violations of privacy and fraud statutes, on top of any relevant state law penalties.“These Navigator grants build on the progress that has already been made in outreach and education about the new Marketplaces,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee pointed out. “Consumers can now learn about the Marketplaces through www.HealthCare.gov. HHS has also launched a 24-hours-a-day consumer call center ready to answer questions about the new Marketplaces and how to get ready for enrollment in 150 languages.”“Beginning on October 1, millions of Americans will have brand-new access to affordable private health insurance coverage,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. “The new Marketplaces will provide individuals and families a choice among various quality private health insurance plans and will also make the coverage affordable through sliding-scale premium tax credits. This Navigator program will play a vital role in helping many consumers find the best plan for them.”###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security Below is the complete list of the organizations in Texas that were awarded Navigator grants:Change Happens: $785,000United Way of Metropolitan Tarrant County: $5,889,181Migrant Health Promotion, Inc.: $589,750National Hispanic Council on Aging: $646,825United Way of El Paso County: $642,121Southern United Neighborhoods: $600,678East Texas Behavioral Healthcare Network (ETBHN): $1,337,520National Urban League: $376,800
08.12.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding today’s decision by Attorney General Eric Holder to no longer pursue mandatory minimum sentences for certain low-level nonviolent drug offenders: “Today I applaud the Attorney General’s decision to no longer pursue mandatory minimum sentences for certain low-level nonviolent drug offenders. Today, a vicious cycle of poverty, criminality, and incarceration traps too many Americans and weakens too many communities. However, many aspects of our criminal justice system may actually exacerbate this problem, rather than alleviate it. Our reliance on mandatory minimums has been a great mistake. I am not convinced it has reduced crime, but I am convinced it has imprisoned people, particularly non-violent offenders, for far longer than is just or beneficial. It is time for us to let judges go back to acting as judges and making decisions based on the individual facts before them.“We need to ensure that incarceration is used to punish, deter and rehabilitate – not merely to convict, warehouse and forget. Clearly, these new strategies can work. They have attracted overwhelming, bipartisan support in red states as well as blue states. And it is past time for others to take notice. I have introduced H.R. 62, the “Federal Prison Bureau Nonviolent Offender Relief Act of 2013”; this is a bill that I have introduced for at least 5 congressional sessions. This legislation amends the federal criminal code to direct the Bureau of Prisons, pursuant to a good time policy, to release a prisoner who has served one half or more of his or her term of imprisonment if that prisoner: (1) has attained age 45; (2) has never been convicted of a crime of violence; and (3) has not engaged in any violation, involving violent conduct, of institutional disciplinary regulations. Many aspects of HR. 62 were included in the historic Second Chance Act. I look forward to working with the Administration to see if we can lower the age for a compassionate release also. Additionally parts of this bill were included in the Department of Justice authorization bill.“We also have to look out for the children of those incarcerated. I was proud to work with Rep. Danny Davis on my amendment (Section 243 of the Second Chance Act) to the Second Chance Act which required that the Attorney General collect data and develop best practices of State corrections departments and child protection agencies relating to the communication and coordination between State departments and agencies to ensure the safety and support of children of incarcerated parents, including those in foster care and kinship care.“Releasing rehabilitated, middle-aged, non-violent offenders from an already overcrowded prison population can be a win-win situation for society and the individual, who, like the prisoner Jean Valjean made famous in Victor Hugo's Les Miserables, is redeemed by the grace of a second chance. The reentry of such individuals into the society will enable them to repay the community through community service and obtain or regain a sense of self-worth and accomplishment. It promises a reduction in burdens to the taxpayer, and an affirmation of the America value that no non-violent offender is beyond redemption. The Attorney General’s announcement today of new guidelines for prosecutors to help reduce incarceration of non-violent, low-level drug offenders is an important step toward achieving the Administration’s goal of identifying reforms that will ensure that federal laws are enforced more fairly and efficiently. “Too many Americans end up losing years of their lives as a result of mandatory minimum sentences, and racial disparities continue to plague the system. Taxpayers are footing a heavy bill to house a prison population that has grown 800% since 1980 and that represents many individuals who are capable of being productive members of our society. I was proud to lead an effort in 2010 to pass the Fair Sentencing Act that reduced the disparities between sentencing for possession of crack cocaine and for powder cocaine and was signed into law by President Barack Obama. The Attorney General of the United States has offered an important challenge to improve the criminal justice system. I look forward to joining my colleagues in Congress in taking these additional steps to ensuring that our justice system is more fair, more just, more efficient, and works for all Americans.”###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.12.2013	August 9, 2013Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today in response to the plan announced today during at a White House press conference by President Obama for reforming National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance programs:“I welcome the announcement of the President that he intends to work with Congress to restore public confidence in surveillance programs intended to keep Americans safe from those who would do us harm, which has been badly shaken by recent disclosures of leaked classified information. These disclosures have led me and many of my colleagues in Congress to call for reform of the nation’s laws regarding surveillance and greater oversight of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. More transparency, consistent with national security, is needed if we are to restore and maintain public confidence in the NSA and its activities.“That is why I recently the “FISA Court in the Sunshine Act,” (H.R. 2440), bipartisan legislation which requires the Attorney General to disclose each decision, order, or opinion of the FISA Court, allowing Americans to know how broad of a legal authority the government is claiming under the PATIROT ACT and Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to conduct the surveillance needed to keep Americans safe.“As a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, which has legislative jurisdiction over surveillance issues, I am particularly pleased with the President’s announced willingness to work with Congress to pursue appropriate reforms to Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the section of the law relied upon to access the telephone records of American citizens, to ensure that there are meaningful and effective safeguards to prevent abuse.“I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President to implement these needed surveillance program reforms during the consideration of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 later this year.”More information about Congresswoman Jackson Lee’s “FISA Court in the Sunshine Act,” (H.R. 2440) is attached.###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.07.2013	August 5, 2013HOUSTON – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee marked the 2nd anniversary of the S&P downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating, calling on Republicans to end their obstruction and delay come to the table and negotiate a budget that puts people to work, strengthens the middle class, and brings down the deficit in a responsible way.“In 2011, when Republicans took the American government to the brink of default, holding the debt limit hostage, the American people and the economy paid the price – with the U.S credit rating being downgraded for the first time in history. Hardworking American families simply cannot afford another round of brinkmanship, which could result in lost retirement savings and higher mortgage and credit card payments, with Republicans playing politics with the nation’s debt limit and economy,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.In 2011, House Republicans spent months playing brinkmanship on raising the debt limit – with the final deal signed within hours of default. As a result, for the first time in history, the U.S. credit rating was downgraded by S&P, costing taxpayers an estimated $19 billion over 10 years due to increased borrowing costs. During those months of chaos, job creation and economic growth slowed and consumer confidence plummeted.A repeat of this debt limit brinkmanship could savage the stock market and result in lower retirement savings (401(k)s invested in the market ) – and raise interest rates on everything from mortgages to credits card. In the lead up to the fall debates on funding the government and raising the debt limit, there have been some Republican calls to hold these measures hostage in order to defund the Affordable Care Act.“Congress has adjourned for August even though there is urgent work to do, and the GOP continues to threaten government shut down and default instead of working with us to boost economic growth. It is time to end sequestration and pass H.R. 900, the “End Sequestration Now Act,” of which I am a co-sponsor. I also call upon the Republican leadership to stop their obstruction and delay, and come to the table to negotiate a budget that puts people to work, strengthens the middle class, and brings down the deficit in a responsible way,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.07.2013	August 5,2013HOUSTON – Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee marked the 20th anniversary of the implementation of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act, which was signed into law on February 5, 1993 by President Bill Clinton. On August 5, 1993, six months later, the protections of the Family and Medical Leave Act were implemented. President George H.W. Bush had earlier vetoed the Family and Medical Leave Act twice.“Since its implementation 20 years ago, the Family and Medical Leave Act has been used more than 100 million times by workers to take unpaid leave to care for themselves, their new children and their family members without having to worry that their jobs will be gone when they return,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee said.The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) requires employers with 50 or more employees to provide eligible employees with up to 12 weeks of job-protected, unpaid leave per year, to care for a newborn or newly-adopted child or care for their own or a close family member’s serious illness. Over the last 20 years, due to the FMLA, mothers and fathers have taken time to care for infants. Pregnant women have taken time to care for themselves and seek medical help during complicated pregnancies. Adult children have taken time to care for ailing parents. Indeed, nearly everyone has, or knows someone who has, benefited from the FMLA.“The Family and Medical Leave Act has helped millions of families manage their responsibilities at work and at home,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee stated. “Now we need to build on the FMLA. House Democrats’ When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families calls for improving FMLA by providing FMLA protections to more of the workforce and also exploring ways to expand access to paid, as well as unpaid, leave.”“Workplace policies need to reflect the new realities of the workplace,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. “Almost half of all workers are women, and 40 percent of working women are the primary breadwinners in their families. We need to take further steps to help America’s working women – and all of America’s workers – better balance their responsibilities on the job with their responsibilities to their families at home.” For more information on When Women Succeeds, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families, click here. ###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.07.2013	July 30, 2013Washington, July 30– Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) announced today that the National Cancer Institute has awarded a grant in the amount of $312,201 to the University of Houston to support its Cancer Biology Research Program, particularly its ongoing Elucidating the Mechanism of ERbeta in Colon Carcinogenesis Project. The grant funding will enable the University of Houston’s Department of Biology and Biochemistry to continue to conduct this crucial research.“Colorectal cancer is the third leading cause of cancer death in the United States. This type of cancer is described as the uncontrolled development and spread of malignant cells throughout the body. Although anyone can get colorectal cancer, it is proven that the incidence and mortality rates are highest in African American men and women. Research such as University of Houston’s Elucidating the Mechanism of ERbeta in Colon Carcinogenesis Project will help the nation to come closer to finding a cure for this disease,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee.“I congratulate the researchers – faculty, students, clinicians, and others - involved in the Elucidating the Mechanism of ERbeta in Colon Carcinogenesis Project on being selected to receive this critically important grant which will help them continue their vital work in this research. I am proud to have supported the authorization programs that made this grant funding possible,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. ###
08.07.2013	July 19, 2013Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior Member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today in response to President Obama’s heartfelt remarks regarding his personal reaction to the Trayvon Martin tragedy at an impromptu press conference at the White House:“I thank President Obama for the leadership he provided to the nation today. His heartfelt remarks regarding his personal reaction to the Trayvon Martin tragedy will go a long way toward bridging the divide between those of us who were shocked, saddened and disappointed by the verdict returned by the jury and those who believe the jury reached the correct result. I hope every American gets the chance to witness the President’s powerful and moving account of his own shared experience with the reality lived every day by millions of young African American and Hispanic males in our country: “You know, when Trayvon Martin was first shot I said that this could have been my son. Another way of saying that is Trayvon Martin could have been me 35 years ago. And when you think about why, in the African American community at least, there’s a lot of pain around what happened here, I think it’s important to recognize that the African American community is looking at this issue through a set of experiences and a history that doesn’t go away. “There are very few African American men in this country who haven't had the experience of being followed when they were shopping in a department store. That includes me. There are very few African American men who haven't had the experience of walking across the street and hearing the locks click on the doors of cars. That happens to me -- at least before I was a senator. There are very few African Americans who haven't had the experience of getting on an elevator and a woman clutching her purse nervously and holding her breath until she had a chance to get off. That happens often. “And I don't want to exaggerate this, but those sets of experiences inform how the African American community interprets what happened one night in Florida. And it’s inescapable for people to bring those experiences to bear. The African American community is also knowledgeable that there is a history of racial disparities in the application of our criminal laws -- everything from the death penalty to enforcement of our drug laws. And that ends up having an impact in terms of how people interpret the case. . . . “And so the fact that sometimes that’s unacknowledged adds to the frustration. And the fact that a lot of African American boys are painted with a broad brush and the excuse is given, well, there are these statistics out there that show that African American boys are more violent -- using that as an excuse to then see sons treated differently causes pain.”“As Americans, we are justifiably proud of the exceptional nature of our country. As President Obama has observed many times, in no other country is his story possible. But it should be a sobering thought to all Americans that but for a random and different twist of fate, he could have been Trayvon Martin.“This is the reality of life for so many young African American and Hispanic males across America and in my congressional district. Consider that in Texas and Harris County the likelihood that a prosecutor will seek the death penalty is more than three times higher for African-American defendants than for Whites. Regarding traffic stops in Los Angeles, relative to Whites, African Americans were 127 percent more likely to be stopped and Hispanics were 43 percent more likely to be frisked. African Americans were 76 percent more likely to be searched and 29 percent more likely to be arrested. But compared to Whites, African Americans who were stopped and frisked were 42.3 percent less likely to be found with a weapon. In other words, they were less likely, much less likely, to pose a real danger to the law enforcement officer who stopped them.“Earlier today, I convened a “listening session” meeting of the Congresssional Black Caucus Justice Reform Working Group, which I co-chair with Congressman Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, and officials of the U.S. Department of Justice, who listened intently to powerful statements and stories by members of the CBC regarding the persistence of racial profiling, the Trayvon Martin case, and other matters relating to the protection of the civil rights of Americans. Especially poignant were the remarks of Congressman John Lewis of Georgia, who shed his blood on the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, and is a living example of the sacrifices made by so many in the struggle for justice and equality.“The listening session was very productive and I was pleased with the assurances received that the concerns expressed by CBC members would be considered seriously by the Department of Justice. Members of the CBC, which is chaired by Congresswoman Marcia Fudge of Ohio, also considered the need for legislative responses to racial profiling and “Stand Your Ground” laws, such as the “Justice Exists for All of Us Act,” (H.R. 5947) which I introduced in the last Congress and will soon reintroduce in this session of Congress.“Yesterday, we also celebrated the 95th birthday of Nelson Mandela, a man who was unjustly imprisoned for 27 years but was never embittered because his actions were motivated by truth and justice. Upon his release from prison in 1990, Nelson Mandela urged his supporters to intensify their struggle for freedom, saying “to relax our efforts now would be a bitter mistake which generations to come will not be able to forgive.” So also it is with us who seek justice for Trayvon Martin.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.07.2013	July 18,2013Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, former whip of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement on the 95th birthday of former South African President Nelson Mandela and the 5th anniversary of Nelson Mandela International Day:“On this special day, my thoughts, prayers, and wishes are with Nelson Mandela and his family. Today we honor one’s man’s commitment to our lives by inspiring people to take up action for the betterment of our world and for the empowerment of communities everywhere.“Nelson Mandela dedicated his life to serving humanity and continues to improve the lives of South Africans. Although he sacrificed so much — 27 years in prison separated from his family and friends — to bring about the end of apartheid, his work has inspired people around the world to fight for equality, justice, and democracy.“Five years ago, the United Nations dedicated this day to commemorate Nelson Mandela’s legacy of peace and freedom. As the world celebrates this momentous occasion, I want to wish Madiba a happy birthday and am honored to have worked with one of the greatest leaders of the 20th century.” ### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary.
08.07.2013	July 11, 2013Washington, DC - Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Co-chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Justice Reform Working Group and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding the CBC adopting their ‘Statement of Principles’ regarding gun violence prevention:“The Members of the Congressional Black Caucus recognize the need for a comprehensive approach to addressing the problem of gun violence in America. Guns and the harm perpetrated by them impact every American and the events at Sandy Hook and Aurora only underscore how random gun violence events can be; but it is important to appreciate that regular gun violence has a particularly devastating impact on the constituents of many CBC Members, but especially those in certain urban areas with a propensity for high rates of violent crimes. Consistent with this, the CBC has formally adopted the following Statement of Principles regarding Gun Violence Prevention: · Improving access to mental health services· Supporting intervention regarding child mental health needs· Finding solutions to bullying epidemic· Providing for expanded teaching of conflict resolution in primary and secondary schools· Gun registration and ammunition registration· Expansion of “Good Time” legislation· Violence Prevention/Gang Prevention· “Violence Prevention/Gang Prevention/Summer Jobs (To include advocating for passage of the Youth PROMISE Act).” · Penalties for lack of gun storage by adults:(1) Gun Safety Locks (2) Reasonable Care Standard (3) Non-Negligence Standard“Over one million people have been killed with guns in the United States since 1968. U.S. homicide rates are 6.9 times higher than rates in 22 other populous high-income countries combined, despite similar non-lethal crime and violence rates. Most gun owners are responsible and law-abiding, and they use their guns safely. I have introduced HR 65, the Child Gun Safety and Gun Access Prevention Act and she has co-sponsored other gun safety legislation while in Congress. Many in the law enforcement community have expressed strong support for her legislation.“As the Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus and a senior Member of the Judiciary Committee, I have listened far too often to the tragic testimony of individuals who have survived or lost loved ones as a result of gun violence. In America there exists a pernicious culture of violence; a subculture that with today’s technologically advanced weaponry is far more dangerous to public safety than ever before. At no point in our nation’s history has a single human been more capable of inflicting massive death and misery, and our society is producing more individuals who wish to employ such means to carry out their ill intentions.”###
08.07.2013	August 6, 2013HOUSTON– Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement marking the 48th anniversary of the landmark Voting Rights Act. President Lyndon Johnson signed this historic law on August 6, 1965:“The Voting Rights Act was enacted only after years of those in the civil rights movement marching and in some cases being beaten or dying for the right to vote. For 48 years, the Voting Rights Act has helped secure the right to vote for millions of Americans.“It can be argued that the Voting Rights Act of 1965 is this country’s most significant civil rights law,” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee said. “Nothing is more fundamental to what this nation stands for than ensuring that every American citizen has equal access to the polls, regardless of race, gender, national origin, religion or language. Because of the efforts of the late Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, who held the seat I currently hold and was the first woman member from Texas to serve on the Judiciary Committee, the Voting Rights Act was amended in 1975 to protect language minorities.“Unfortunately, on June 25, the Supreme Court, in its 5-4 decision of Shelby County v Holder, took a step backwards on the Voting Rights Act, by holding that the formula in Section 4 of the Act was unconstitutional and could no longer be used. However, the majority opinion also clearly stated that it was fully within the power of Congress to act to restore the Voting Rights Act, in line with the decision.“Ever since 1965, the Voting Rights Act has been enacted and repeatedly renewed by wide bipartisan majorities in Congress,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee pointed out. “For example, in its most recent reauthorization in 2006, the Voting Rights Act was renewed for 25 years by a vote of 390-33 in the House and 98-0 in the Senate.”“As a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over voting rights legislation, I call upon Members on both sides of the aisle to continue that bipartisan tradition and work together this fall to enact a legislative fix in response to the Supreme Court decision – a fix that will succeed in ensuring that the Voting Rights Act protects the right to vote for years to come,” Congresswoman Jackson Lee concluded. “Our country has made much progress toward equality. But, as President George W. Bush said in 2006, ‘the work for a more perfect union is never ending.’ I am optimistic that we can succeed. Restoring the Voting Rights Act to its full strength would be a big step in the direction of ‘a more perfect union.’” ###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
08.06.2013	WHO: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)WHAT: Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee launches the new website for the 18th Congressional District. The Congresswoman is proud to announce that we have relaunched our website. As you will see it is a completely new look, design & feel. The Congresswoman hopes that you will find it much easier to navigate and get the information that you want to know about the 18th Congressional District, our Washington and Houston offices and other pertinent information. The Congresswoman and the 18th Congressional District are proud to be a part of this community. Things will be changing frequently as we fine tune our content. Our goal is to bring content to you in a professional and efficient manner.WHERE: Link - https://jacksonlee.house.gov WHEN: TODAY @ 1pm Eastern Time###
07.30.2013	Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “The National Eye Institute grant awarded to University of Houston will greatly aid the Vision Research program.” Washington, July 18, 2013Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) announced today that the National Eye Institute has awarded a grant in the amount of $376,250 to the University of Houston to support its Vision Research Program, particularly its ongoing Toll-Like Receptor and Dry Eye Inflammation and Infection Project. The grant funding will enable University of Houston’s Department of Biology and Biochemistry to continue to conduct crucial this research.“More than 4.9 million Americans suffer from dry eye, a condition in which there is an insufficient supply of tears to lubricate and nourish the eye. Tears are necessary for maintaining the health of the front surface of the eye and for providing clear vision. Research such as University of Houston’s Toll-Like Receptor and Dry Eye Inflammation and Infection Project help the nation to come up with solutions to this common, chronic problem,” said Congresswoman Jackson Lee.“I congratulate the researchers – faculty, students, clinicians, and others - involved in the Toll-like Receptor and Dry Eye Inflammation and Infection Project on being selected to receive this critically important grant which will help them continue their vital work in this research. I am proud to have supported the authorization programs that made this grant funding possible,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.###
07.30.2013	“Gateway to Care grants awarded by CMS to CHIPRA will sustain needed programs and services to support children’s healthcare opportunities.” Washington, July 16, 2013 Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) announced today that the Centers For Medicare & Medicaid Services has awarded - $1 million in grants from the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (CHIPRA) to Staten Island Kids Connect, a service provider located in Houston. The grant funding will enable the organization to continue to develop efficient and effective strategies to identify, enroll, and retain health coverage for uninsured children who are eligible for Medicaid or CHIP but are not enrolled.“These substantial grants will provide much needed help to Staten Island Kids Connect which selflessly serves over 2.3 million persons on Medicaid or CHIP. Since 31.6% of Texas children are on Medicaid, these Gateway to Care grants will make a real difference in the lives of the countless other children who are still in need of healthcare,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Nationally, more than 39 million children who are covered by Medicaid and CHIP programs. In Houston, projects like Staten Island Kids Connect serve a crucial need in identifying an initial core set of children’s health care quality measures and in developing an improved healthcare system for children. “I congratulate CHIP and the Staten Island Kids Connect Program on being selected to receive these critically important grants which will help them continue their vital work in helping children receive crucial Medicaid and CHIP benefits. I am proud to have supported the authorization programs that made this grant funding possible, said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.###
07.30.2013	Washington, July 13, 2013Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today: “Today was a questionable day as it relates to the life of a young child. America’s justice system is often viewed as coddling and protecting our children, the most vulnerable members of our society. As someone who has devoted much of my public life to advocating for the protection of children, whether from gun violence, bullying at school and in cyberspace, drugs, and unhealthy foodstuffs, I am dismayed that the Florida judicial system did not recognize and value the life of young Trayvon Martin. Trayvon’s family and friends missed him on the day he was killed and they still miss him today. They are right to wonder why others seemed to attach so little value to his life. “The federal government stands to serve justice in cases where there is much doubt as to whether justice was done by the local authorities. I expect to join with others in discussions with the U.S. Department of Justice regarding the killing of Trayvon Martin, who was but 16 years and 21 days old when he was shot to death. I am also calling for the Congress to hold oversight hearings regarding the treatment of the killing of a juvenile in the circumstances that occurred in Sanford, Florida as well as the manner in which the criminal justice system treats victims of gun violence, especially young black male victims like Trayvon Martin. “Many mothers tonight are praying, as I am, hopeful that things remain calm but also hoping that justice for young Trayvon Martin will be pursued. “To the the young people who have grown to see Trayvon Martin as themselves, we encourage you to continue to invest in improving your nation, working with people of all backgrounds who feel as you do – disappointed – but will join with you in the fight for justice. “We are all Trayvon.”###
07.30.2013	Washington, July 11, 2013Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the grants awarded to community health centers in Houston, Texas:“I am pleased to learn that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services today announced the grant of $124,395 to the Fourth Ward Clinic to enroll the uninsured in new health coverage options made available by the Affordable Care Act.“Health centers encompass an extensive history of providing eligibility assistance to patients along with delivering high-quality, primary health care services in communities across the nation. Delivering the best health care is tremendously important to us, and with this grant, we will be able to give even better opportunities to our communities. We are gratified to the Department of Health and Human Services.“I applaud the Department of Health and Human Services for establishing grants to give Texas neighborhoods and towns one more resource to help people understand their insurance options and enroll in affordable coverage. I am very pleased that a Houston community health center in my district, Fourth Ward Clinic, will be able to enroll the uninsured in new health coverage options, such as Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program.“I also applaud the additional awards from the Health Resources and Services Administration that will complement the work of the HHS by granting additional funds to federal efforts such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services- funded Navigator program.”###
07.18.2013	Washington, Jul 9, 2013 Congresswoman Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “Chevron is committed to Houston and will create more than 1,700 jobs for the area.”“I am pleased that Chevron plans to construct an office building in downtown Houston to accommodate its business growth and expanding workforce in the world’s energy capital. As Houston’s Downtown District continues its revitalization, Chevron’s urban campus will contribute to the city’s goal of providing a vibrant and diverse city center for tenants and retailers alike. This expansion will create more than 1,700 jobs in Houston and will open the doors to significant opportunities for Texas families. Chevron’s long-term commitment to Houston and Texas is evident.“I congratulate Chevron on this expansion and will continue to support their efforts to serve Houston and Texas. Chevron invests millions in the greater Houston community and their employees also donate thousands of hours annually volunteering to help improve the lives of people across the area. We will continue to work together to strengthen and enrich our communities while focusing on creating jobs for Houston.” ###
07.18.2013	Washington, Jul 2 -Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today on the passing of former Philadelphia Congressman and House Majority Whip William Gray: "Congressman Bill Gray was, in a word, a giant – of Philadelphia, of the Congress, of our country. He was a leader and a trailblazer, a proud representative of the people of Philadelphia, a man who left his mark on the history of his city. His dedicated leadership benefited the people of Philadelphia. He never lost sight of the needs of those in the urban community. Through one of his non-profits, the Union Housing Corporation, he was instrumental in developing housing for low and middle residents. He was committed to making sure that Philadelphia residents had access to quality, reliable transportation. Amtrak’s 30th Street Station is one of the best, most efficiently run train facilities in the nation because of Gray’s commitment to investing federal resources in America’s infrastructure. "In the House of Representatives Congressman Gray will forever stand as a Member of firsts – the first African American to serve as Chair of the Budget Committee and the first to rise to the rank of Majority Whip. He sounded the alarm not only about the injustice of apartheid in South Africa, but about what America and Congress could do to end it. He broadened the reach of his public service beyond Congress, helping send more young people to college as President and CEO of the United Negro College Fund. "Bill Gray was my friend. Bill was a man of unshakeable faith, a towering spiritual leader through his lifelong commitment to the Bright Hope Baptist Church. His strong, powerful and influential voice will be missed in Philadelphia and around the nation. We only hope it is a comfort to his wife, Andrea, his three sons, and his family and loved ones that so many share in their grief at this time." ###
06.26.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member on the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the introduction of the “Coretta Scott King Mid-decade Redistricting Prohibition Act of 2013:“In light of yesterday’s historic decision in Shelby County v. Holder, a case upsetting nearly half a century of well-settled jurisprudence, I have introduced legislation that prevents states from attempting mid decade Congressional redistricting for the purpose of Congressional apportionment until after the next decennial census, unless required by a court in compliance with the Constitution or the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Let me be clear, this legislation applies to federal elections, not state and local elections.“We cannot afford to sit back and watch our country move backwards, as legislators we must act. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 is no ordinary piece of legislation, for it represents our country and this Congress at its best because it matches our words to deeds, our actions to our values. And, as is usually the case, when America acts consistent with its highest values, success follows. But based on the Shelby case and its rationale, it is clear that Voting Rights Act is needed more than ever. The Voting Rights Act has been one of the most effective civil rights laws passed by Congress and needs to be reinforced vigorously.“I will continue to advocate for justice, equality, and fairness to our country’s most sacred right: the right to vote. Congress must act now – let’s start with passing the Coretta Scott King Mid-decade Redistributing Prohibition Act of 2013.”
06.24.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Judiciary, released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision in Fisher v. University of Texas-Austin: “There is no doubt that the vestiges of discrimination have been devastating for minority groups in America especially African Americans. Some headway has been made because affirmative action has allowed talented and qualified minorities to find their rightful place in universities and places of work. I am heartened that the Supreme Court has reaffirmed the principle established in the Bakke, Grutter, and Gratz cases that colleges and universities may consider race as one of a number of factors in the admissions decision. I am hope that when the lower courts consider the case on remand, they will find that the University of Texas admission process is narrowly tailored to achieve the university’s compelling and constitutionally permissible interest in achieving a diverse student body and an intellectual community comprised of individuals with diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and ideas.”###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
06.23.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today:“As a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and one who played an active leading role in the successful effort in 2006 to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act, I believe that this is not the time to repeal or weaken Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Section 5 requires states and local jurisdictions covered under the Act to submit all changes affecting voting and elections for preapproval by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division.“I am hopeful that the Supreme Court will uphold the constitutionality of Section 5 because of the continuing and documented need for this “anchor” protecting the voting rights of America. In recent years we have witnessed numerous attempts to limit the right to vote, from Voter ID laws to curtailing early voting to mid-decade redistricting to eliminating local school districts. It seems like every year some group tries to persuade the Supreme Court to strike down Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act because it stands as a shield to protect the right to vote from those who would burden or take away that right if they could.“The Voting Rights Act puts people above partisan politics and gives legal backing to the perception that in American every vote and voter matters. I am hopeful that the Supreme Court will uphold the constitutionality of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act when it issues its decision expected this week.”###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
06.20.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today regarding her decision to participate in the SNAP Challenge in protest over the more than $20 billion in cuts proposed to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in the 2014 Farm Bill:“This Farm Bill was a terrible bill that the Republicans put on the House Floor today. I have had a strong history and voting for the Farm Bill in the past and I will always support our Farmers. But this Bill just went too far. One of the provisions that led me to vote against this bill was because of the cuts to the SNAP program. Congress should be taking all necessary measure to strengthen SNAP, formerly known as food stamps, not destroy a program that helps over 47 million Americans and 21 million households. Food is not an option – it is a right that all people living in this nation must have to exist and prosper. When I listen to the Republican Majority, I am convinced that they do not understand the impact of the SNAP program. SNAP is the difference between food on the table and a child going to bed hungry.“The Southerland Amendment which passed made even more HARSH cuts to SNAP, the amendment would allow states to pocket the savings if they cut their SNAP caseloads by instituting work requirements and cutting off benefits for SNAP beneficiaries who do not work at least 20 hours per week – including the disabled, parents with young children who do not have child care and those who are unable to find work because no jobs are available in their community.“I offered an amendment that was a sense of Congress that the Federal Government should increase business opportunities for small businesses, black farmers, women and minority businesses. Small farm businesses, black farmers, women and minority agriculture related businesses could benefit from partnerships with federal office location in receiving support for farmers markets. This would assist with eliminating food deserts, which are urban neighborhoods and rural towns without easy access to fresh, healthy and affordable food. These communities may have no food access or are served only by fast food restaurants and convenience stores.“In my district, Texas 18th Congressional District, more than 190,000 people live below the poverty line, which makes it difficult for my constituents to provide for their families. According to the Food Research and Action Center, my district ranks as having the 33rd highest rate of food hardship in households with children. The state of Texas ranks as the 9th highest food hardship rate in the country. And according to the Texas Food Bank Network and Baylor University’s Texas Hunger Initiative, more than 700,000 families in Harris County, Texas struggle to provide food their families. Cutting SNAP not only severely affects Americans, but it will have a greater affect on my state and district. Those statistics will rise, and more children, seniors, and people with disabilities will go days without eating. Food is not an option – we must provide assistance to those who need it the most. “I will not support the Farm Bill as it stands; it is a cold-hearted and mean-spirited bill. SNAP is one of the most effective and efficient federal program. SNAP kept more than 5 million people out of poverty in 2010 in addition to helping feed millions more who were already below the poverty line. About three-quarters of the families aided by the program have children. More than a quarter of the families include seniors or people with disabilities. In my state, the great state of Texas, SNAP serves more than 1.6 million Texas households. SNAP kept more than 5 million people out of poverty in 2010 in addition to helping feed millions more who were already below the poverty line. About three-quarters of the families aided by the program have children. More than a quarter of the families include seniors or people with disabilities. You can say that SNAP does work because SNAP saves lives and provides for those in need.“Participating in this SNAP challenge is a way to highlight the struggle many people and working families are facing today and to call attention of the need for these life-saving programs. Yesterday, I spent $3.91 for meals which included 2 apricots, 1 banana, 2 potatoes, 1 tomato, 2 avocadoes, and a package of smoked chicken for .58 cents. I encourage people all across the country to participate in the SNAP Challenge to voice their opposition of these outrageous cuts.”###
06.19.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement in observance of Juneteenth:“On June 19, 1865, General Gordon Granger rode into Galveston, Texas and announced the freedom of the last American slaves; belatedly freeing 250,000 slaves in Texas nearly two and a half years after Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. The day coined Juneteenth was first celebrated in the Texas state capital in 1867 under the direction of the Freedmen’s Bureau. Today, Juneteenth remains the oldest known celebration of slavery’s demise. It commemorates freedom while acknowledging the sacrifices and contributions made by courageous African Americans toward making our great nation the more conscious and accepting country that it has become.“Because of the importance of Juneteenth to Texas, I have introduced H. Res 268 – a Resolution observing the historical significance of Juneteenth Independence Day. As we celebrate the anniversary of Juneteenth, I ask that all of my colleagues join me in reflecting upon its significance. Because it was only after that day in 1865 when General Granger rode into Galveston, Texas, on the heels of the most devastating conflict in our country’s history, in the aftermath of a civil war that pitted brother against brother, neighbor against neighbor and threatened to tear the fabric of our union apart forever that America truly became the land of the free and the home of the brave.“Not until 1979, when my friend, State Representative Al Edwards, introduced the bill did Juneteenth become a Texas state holiday. It was first celebrated as such in 1980. Civil rights pioneer Martin Luther King Jr. once said, ‘Freedom is never free’, and African American labor leader A. Phillip Randolph often said, ‘Freedom is never given. It is won.’ We should all recognize the power and the ironic truth of those statements and we should pause to remember the enormous price paid by all Americans in our country’s quest to realize its promise. Juneteenth honors the end of the 400 years of suffering African Americans endured under slavery and celebrates the legacy of perseverance that has become the hallmark of the African American community and its struggle for equality.“Throughout the 1980's and 90's, Juneteenth has continued to enjoy a growing and healthy interest from communities and organizations throughout the country. Institutions such as the Smithsonian, the Henry Ford Museum and others have begun sponsoring Juneteenth-centered activities. In recent years, a number of National Juneteenth Organizations have arisen to take their place alongside older organizations - all with the mission to promote and cultivate knowledge and appreciation of African American history and culture.“Juneteenth today, celebrates African American freedom while encouraging self-development and respect for all cultures. As it takes on a more national and even global perspective, the events of 1865 in Texas are not forgotten, for all of the roots tie back to this fertile soil from which a national day of pride is growing. The future of Juneteenth looks bright as the number of cities and states come on board and form local committees and organizations to coordinate the activities.”###
06.19.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after the Frederick Douglass Statue dedication ceremony:“I was proud to witness Congress install a permanent tribute to a great American, Fredrick Douglass. The statue dedicated in his honor – like Douglass, tall, poised, and carrying the moral weight of a survivor-turned-crusader for freedom and justice – will not only stand as a memorial to his courage and the unwavering strength of his character, but the statue will commemorate the life and voice of Frederick Douglass. Every time I walk pass his statue I will be reminded that in this great country anything is possible with faith, courage and determination. “As one of America’s greatest orators and writers, Douglass stated, ‘where there is no struggle, there is no progress.’ I will continue to walk in the footsteps of Douglass by standing tall for freedom, human dignity, and the full measure of civil and human rights for all men and women, even when there appears to be a struggle. Douglass is a man who symbolizes that progress can be made with struggles, for he overcame the struggles of his birth and race to become a life-long legend. May the life of Frederick Douglass continue to inspire the lives of others.” ###
06.18.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement in response to protesters at her office in the Heights:“As the Congresswoman who represents the 18th Congressional District, I am pleased to have four satellite offices which allow the people to petition their government. Today, persons appeared at my Heights office to protest, and I respect those citizens’ rights to protest their government. If that protest is to talk about opposing sensible gun legislation, then I will respectfully disagree with their position. Since Sandy Hook, where 20 innocent children and 6 innocent adults were massacred in a school that was meant for learning, more than 5000 people have died due to reckless gun violence. This speaks volumes for why we need sensible gun violence prevention legislation.“There is nothing wrong with having universal background checks, closing the gun show loop hole, legislation mandating that adults properly store their guns away so children will not have access to them, a reasonable ban on assault weapons and enhanced treatment and resources for the mentally ill. Having those mechanisms in place will reduce the gun violence we see here in America. Certainly, a dialogue is warranted on the 2nd Amendment but to do nothing on having safer gun laws is not an option. I look forward to working with all of those who care about this issue in order for us to come up with some form of sensible gun law legislation.“One thing should be clear, we should not fear each other’s position and I will not fear doing the right thing, which is passing sensible gun laws that will not hinder the Constitutional Rights of the American people and my constituents.”###
06.17.2013	Today, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18) honored local small businesses as part of the 50th Annual National Small Business Week.“Today, we celebrate American small businesses, particularly those here in Houston, which are the engine that drive our economy. That is why House Democrats have put small businesses at the forefront of our economic plan to create good-paying jobs and grow the economy” remarked Congresswoman Jackson Lee.To provide certainty to small businesses and expand good-paying jobs, he/she called for action on a budget that spurs new businesses and creates jobs by replacing GOP sequester cuts with a balanced agreement that creates jobs, strengthens the middle class, and responsibly reduces the deficit.“Moving forward on a budget agreement is a critical step toward strengthening our economy and bolstering small businesses. And through our American Jobs Act and our Make It In America agenda, Democrats are fighting to provide millions of small businesses with new incentives to expand and hire, make it more cost-effective for small businesses to invest in plants and equipment, and expanding new tools and strategies for small to medium-sized businesses to transition into clean energy and high-tech manufacturing,” stated Congresswoman Jackson Lee.Republicans in Congress continue with their NO Jobs agenda -- refusing to consider legislation that creates jobs, blocking debate of economic proposals, and conjuring up one manufactured crisis after another – and America’s small businesses and families have paid the price. Under GOP sequestration, small businesses are estimated to be losing access to more than $900 million in loans, and the non-partisan CBO estimates that the GOP sequester will cost 750,000 American jobs this year alone. Despite repeated GOP calls for a budget in the past, the GOP now is blocking negotiations to get a final budget done, which is critical to creating good-paying American jobs, stopping the sequester cuts, growing the economy, and getting our fiscal house in order.“During this 50th Small Business Week, we thank the small businesses across the nation, which form the backbone of our communities -- opening new storefronts, training American workers, manufacturing and selling goods in our neighborhoods,” proclaimed Congresswoman Jackson Lee. “We also renew our commitment to expanding economic opportunity so that everyone with an idea for a new enterprise or business venture has the ability and resources to translate their dreams into reality.”###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security and a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary.
06.07.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement in response to the shooting at Santa Monica College campus:“Today is yet another sad day in our country because of a senseless shooting at Santa Monica College. I am deeply saddened to learn about those who have been wounded because of this incident. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of Santa Monica College campus community and those who have been injured and anyone else personally impacted by this senseless act of violence. I am sure that everyone in the community of the Santa Monica College campus will do whatever they can in the coming days to ease the pain, tensions and concerns of all affected.“My prayers and condolences go first to the families of those wounded and I share the grief of everyone affected by this event. I applaud the swift work by the First Responders. Americans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This is one of those times.”###
06.07.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement today after the Department of Labor released its jobs report for May:“It is clear from this morning’s employment report by the Bureau of Labor Statistics that Congress must act to end the uncertainty caused by a lack of a clear direction in fiscal policy and made worse by sequestration. With 178,000 private sector jobs created in May, our economy continues to grow at a steady pace; however, it is not enough to create the jobs we need to provide opportunities and security for our middle-class.“On February 25, HR 900, ‘The End the Sequester Act of 2013’ was introduced by myself, Rep. John Conyers along with Rep. Fredericka Wilson and Rep. Alan Grayson. I call on Speaker Boehner to put this Bill on the Floor next week. The sequester was suppose to end a budget impasse. It is harming the ability of the federal government to do its job. With every passing day, thousands of jobs are at risk, the security of middle class families hang in the balance, and the safety of neighborhoods across the state of Texas and other states are in jeopardy. Our nation’s economy cannot afford any further uncertainty, obstruction, and delay. Too much is at stake. The Cancel the Sequester Act of 2013 would give the leaders of both parties the time needed to reach some consensus on budget issues without forcing the average American to pay the price for Washington’s dysfunction.“The best remedy Congress can provide for our economy is a big and balanced solution to deficits that replaces the irrational Republican policy of sequester. Unfortunately, Republicans have continued to refuse to compromise and have yet to appoint conferees to negotiate with the Senate over a budget. This ought to be the first step toward addressing our fiscal and jobs challenges, and over the summer months Congress has an opportunity to consider Make It In America legislation to invest in a stronger manufacturing base and help our businesses compete. Republicans and Democrats must work together to achieve these goals and restore certainty to our economy. There is no time to waste.”###
06.07.2013	Today, Rep. Jackson Lee announced that a new study from the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation concludes that the Affordable Care Act’s Medical Loss Ratio provision saved consumers in the individual insurance market an estimated $2.1 billion in 2012, the bulk of it in lower premium costs.“This new study concludes that, because of the so-called “80/20” rule in the Affordable Care Act, consumers in the individual market have saved $2.1 billion in 2012 alone -- $1.9 billion in lower premiums and $241 million in rebates insurers estimate they will pay to consumers in the individual market in August based on their performance in 2012,” Rep. Jackson Lee said.The Medical Loss Ratio provision (or “80/20” rule) in the Affordable Care Act, implemented in 2011, limits insurers’ administrative costs and profits by requiring them to issue consumer rebates if they fail to spend at least 80 percent of premiums on health care and quality improvement.The Kaiser Family Foundation study concludes that the impact of the “80/20” rule has been particularly dramatic in the individual health insurance market. In 2010, fewer than half of the plans in the individual market were in compliance with the provision. The study found that the average percentage of premiums going for health care claims has been steadily increasing since the requirement went into effect in 2011. This means that individual market insurers are devoting a greater portion of premium dollars to health care claims and less to administrative costs and profits compared to before the provision went into effect. There have been numerous reports that insurers in the individual market, in order to avoid paying rebates, have worked to reduce their commissions and other administrative expenses to become more efficient.Based on its analysis of the data, the study found that premiums in the individual market were $1.9 billion lower in 2012 than they would have been without this provision in the ACA. In addition, individual market insurers are expecting to issue $241 million in rebates to consumers in the individual market in 2013 – bringing the total savings to consumers in the individual market to $2.1 billion.Due to the “80/20” rule, in August 2012, nearly 13 million Americans, in the individual, small group and large group markets, benefited from a total of $1.1 billion in rebates – based on insurers’ performance in 2011. ###
06.06.2013	Today, Rep. Jackson Lee announced that a new nonpartisan study, which was prepared by independent health care experts, has concluded that the Affordable Care Act will spur entrepreneurship. The study estimates that about 1.5 million Americans will choose to become entrepreneurs and start their own businesses because of the health care law over the next few years. “Up until now, many Americans considering leaving their job to strike out on their own decide not to because they worry they may be denied health insurance coverage because they have pre-existing health conditions, fear losing access to a trusted physician, or are unable to afford the premiums without their employer sharing the costs,” Rep. Jackson Lee stated.This fear of many Americans to leave their jobs because of their health insurance concerns has come to be known as “job lock.”“However, beginning in 2014, because of the Affordable Care Act, access to high-quality, subsidized health insurance coverage will no longer be exclusively tied to employment – which can free people to become their own boss and launch their own business,” Rep. Jackson Lee pointed out. “By ensuring that people can’t be discriminated against when they buy health insurance and helping those with modest incomes cover the cost of premiums, the health care law will create new options for millions of Americans.”The growth of entrepreneurship stimulated by the health care law should lead to a more dynamic economy, with greater innovation and a stronger rate of economic growth.The study, entitled “The Affordable Care Act: Improving Incentives for Entrepreneurship and Self-Employment,” was prepared by nonpartisan health care experts associated with the Urban Institute and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. It is based on empirical research demonstrating a significant increase in self-employment in states that have already initiated some health reforms.###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
06.05.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement after attending today’s Memorial Service for Captain EMT Matthew Renaud, Firefighter EMT Robert Garner, Engineer Operator EMT Robert Bebee and Probationary Firefighter Anne Sullivan:“Today has to be one of the saddest days in Houston’s history. To see the families who have lost their valiant heroes and to spend time with them was a special moment. We came together as a city, a state and a nation recognizing the great service that these outstanding men and women have given. They died in the line of duty, and their names will always be imprinted in our hearts. As a person with the utmost respect for our first responders, their lives will continue to contribute to the story of greatness among first responders. It was evident that each uplifting testimony touched the hearts and souls of those present at today’s service. The families can be comforted by the words of Amazing Grace - ‘Through many dangers, toils and snares I have already come; 'Tis grace has brought me safe thus far and grace will lead me home.’“Let us never forget the Firemen’s Creed which says in part – ‘I have no ambition in this world but one, and that is to be a Fireman……But, above all, our proudest endeavor is to save lives as men, the work of God Himself.’ It is our duty to honor these four individuals; four people who sacrificed everything in service to their community. It is our responsibility to offer what comfort we can to those closest to them to convey our deepest sympathies, along with the pride and profound respect we have for their lost loved ones. May God bless the families of these fallen heroes and may He continue to bless the Great State of Texas and the United States of America.” ###Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
06.03.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released today upon learning of the death of U.S. Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey:“I was very privileged to have served in Congress with Senator Lautenberg for nearly two decades, he in the Senate and me in the House. Even though we served in different chambers, we collaborated often and met frequently in briefings, meetings, and press conferences to discuss issues that are of importance to the American people.“Senator Lautenberg was a wonderful person and a tireless fighter for justice for children and families, consumers, students, seniors, and the environment. Senator Lautenberg was kind to everyone he met and always knew the words to say to bring a smile to anyone’s face. More importantly, he always continued to find ways to help the people he served. And he was relentless in his efforts to pass commonsense, responsible gun violence prevention legislation.“I remember the last time I saw Senator Lautenberg. I was on the Senate floor watching the vote on universal background checks. Although he was confined to a wheelchair, Senator Lautenberg made a special trip to be present for that vote, which exemplified his commitment to saving lives and good government. As we spoke during that vote, I could not help but notice how Senator Lautenberg was still the same optimistic and determined senator devoted to serving the interests of his state and the nation.“I extend my deepest sympathy and condolences to his family, friends, and constituents. The nation has truly lost one of its greatest warriors for justice, a public servant who devoted his life to helping the most vulnerable in society. Senator Lautenberg, a decorated World War II veteran, was one of the greatest members of the greatest generation. He will always be remembered and may he rest in peace.”### Congresswoman Jackson Lee is a Democrat from Texas’s 18th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the House Committees on Judiciary and Homeland Security and is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
04.09.2013	As we mark Equal Pay Day on April 9, Rep. Jackson Lee said that more needs to be done to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men – including enactment of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act. Equal Pay Day symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year.“According to a new report from the American Association of University Women, the women in Texas still earn only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men,” stated Rep. Jackson Lee. “And nationwide women earn only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men, despite the fact that the Equal Pay Act will mark its 50th anniversary in June.”“Equal pay is not simply a woman’s issue – it’s a family issue,” Rep. Jackson Lee added. “Families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. When women bring home less money each day, it means they have less for the everyday needs of their families – groceries, rent, child care, and doctor’s visits.”Achieving equal pay for women has been one of the top priorities of Democrats. In January 2009, the Democratic-led 111th Congress sent to the President’s desk the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act – and it became the first bill signed into law by President Obama. This Act, a great victory for women, restores the right of women to challenge unfair pay in court – but virtually all House Republicans opposed this critical measure for women.“Although the Lilly Ledbetter Act has been enacted, we need to do more,” Rep. Jackson Lee said. “The Paycheck Fairness Act is equally important. The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens and closes loopholes in the nearly 50-year-old Equal Pay Act, including providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. But once again, Republicans have continued to stand in the way of progress for women and their families.”Democrats have worked to enact the Paycheck Fairness Act for years. In 2008 and again in 2009, the Democratic-led House succeeded in passing the bill, but in both Congresses, Senate Republicans blocked the measure. Similarly, in 2012, Republicans in both the House and Senate voted to block the bill. In 2013, it’s time for Republicans to finally stand up for America’s women and help pass the critical Paycheck Fairness Act.“On Equal Pay Day 2013, let us all vow that, in order to strengthen the American family and ensure fairness in the workplace, we will work together until we have achieved an America where women are truly paid equal pay for equal work,” concluded Rep. Jackson Lee.
04.08.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding Anne Smedinghoff, the young American diplomat who was killed over the weekend while delivering textbooks to children in Afghanistan:“Anne Smedinghoff’s adventures ended tragically Saturday when the 25-year-old U.S. diplomat from Illinois was killed in a suicide bombing in Afghanistan. Anne, one of six Americans killed Saturday, was the first U.S. diplomat slain in Afghanistan since the war began in 2001.“Anne, a U.S. Foreign Service Officer, died in the service of her country as she was traveling with a group to deliver books to a local school in the Zabul Province of Afghanistan. She joined the Foreign Service three years ago right out of college. Anne absolutely loved the work she was doing. Her first assignment was in Caracas, Venezuela. She then volunteered for an assignment at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, which she began in July, 2012.“Working as a public diplomacy officer, she particularly enjoyed the opportunity to work directly with the Afghan people and was always looking for opportunities to reach out and help to make a difference in the lives of those living in a country ravaged by war. We should be consoled knowing that she was doing what she loved, and that she was serving her country by helping to make a positive difference in the world. She was a wonderful woman who was strong, intelligent, independent, and loving.“My thoughts and Prayers go out to her family, friends and co-workers during this trying time.”
04.08.2013	METRO Rail has recorded 100 million boarding’s since service began in January of 2004. Eighteen light-rail vehicles (LRVs) have traveled more than four million miles and achieved this record four years ahead of schedule. METRO’s rail fleet is getting a boost with the introduction of 19 Siemens rail cars also. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson lee released the following statement:“A well-functioning transportation system is critical to the Nation’s prosperity. Whether it is by road, transit, aviation, rail, or waterway, we rely on our transportation system to move people and goods safely, facilitate commerce, attract and retain businesses, and support jobs. The President’s Fiscal Year 2012 Budget provided $128 billion to support these efforts; including $8 billion in 2012 and $53 billion over six years to reach the President’s goal of providing 80 percent of Americans with convenient access to a passenger rail system, featuring high-speed service, within 25 years.“I invited Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to come to Houston to view the first leg of our light rail system from downtown to the Medical Center. Because of that visit Secretary LaHood made a commitment to Houston and for the first time in 20 years a rail project for Houston was added to the President’s budget. That selection helped Houston secure the $900 million Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) – now we must finish the job. We cannot let one referendum election change Houston’s commitment to light rail. The $900 million FFGA signed in 2012 was critical for the regional mobility of the citizens of the vast communities within and around the 18th Congressional District. Such funding is critical for the regional mobility of the citizens of the vast communities within and around the 18th Congressional District.“The expanded METRO Rail system is an essential element of the region’s plans to meet the transportation and environmental challenges of today and tomorrow Light rail eases Houston’s growing traffic congestion, improves our air quality and changes the way Houston moves. Houston needs this infrastructure to relieve congestion and provide adequate public transportation, but it also needs this because an investment in Houston’s New Start Transit Project means jobs for Houston’s constituents through the transportation sector in its communities and around the nation. Light rail will also help our world class facilities and stadiums and help the city attract events like the Superbowl and Olympics like the city of Atlanta has done.“I understand the vital importance of ensuring we have a developed RAIL and transit system. Houston has been working for over twenty years to bring these New Starts Projects to fruition. Houston is very close to finishing but needs a little assistance to make it to the finish line. I have worked tirelessly to ensure that the METRO RAIL New Starts Project gets completed and gets completed in an expeditious manner.“Public transportation in the 21st century is leading the way, as more Americans are discovering the benefits of traveling on buses and using light rail. 35 million times each weekday, Americans take public transit. Americans take more than 10 billion trips per year on public transportation—15 times the number of trips they take on domestic airlines. In recent decades, public transportation ridership has increased faster than the U.S. population and the use of the nation’s highways.”
04.08.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement after meeting with Teachers and Students at Konia Community Learning Academy Center to discuss gun free and safe schools:“I want to thank the teachers and students of Konia Community Learning Academy Center who joined me today to discuss gun free and safe schools during our Round Table discussion today. Their participation today was appreciated and I look forward to taking the insight I gained today back to Washington to effectively address gun violence and the youth violence epidemic. As Chair of the Congressional Children’s Caucus, I have worked for many years to address the exposure of our children to the scourge of violence, which impacts our youth and brings tears to the eyes of parents far too often. The issue of violence in our schools is certainly at the forefront of our minds given the tragic events at Newtown in which we lost 20 children and 6 adults at Sandy Hook Elementary; our hearts still ache with sadness and disbelief for the families and loved ones of the children and women who lost their lives in this senseless act of violence.“It is imperative that we come together in strong support of a broad and comprehensive strategy to address the causes and effects of youth violence. Weighing heavily on our conscience is the fact that an estimated 46 million children in our country are exposed to violence each year through crime, abuse and trauma. The gravity of our current situation cannot be overstated. Today, homicide is the 2nd leading cause of death for young people ages 15 to 24 years old. What is further disturbing is the fact that homicide is the leading cause of death for African Americans between ages 10 and 24, and the second leading cause of death for Hispanic Americans.“Firearms-related deaths cost the U.S. health care system and economy $37 billion in 2005, the most recent year for which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention attempted an estimate. The cost of those who survive gun violence came to another $3.7 billion that year, according to the CDC.”“It is shocking and simply unacceptable that we live in a society in which an average of 13 young people from ages 10-24 become victims of homicide every day. We know the leading weapon of choice used to kill those victims: 82.8% of those youths were killed with a firearm. Many guns are in the wrong hands, and end up being the highly efficient tools of criminals and mass murderers.“Every 30 minutes, a child or teenager in America is injured by a gun. Every 3 hours and 15 minutes, a child or teenager loses their life to a firearm. In 2010, 82 children under 5 years of age lost their lives due to guns. To put that number in perspective, 58 law enforcement officers died in the line of duty that year. While preventing the deaths of so many young people should be our highest priority, we also need to address the broader culture of violence that pervades our society.“In 2011, over 707,000 young people, aged 10 to 24 years, had to be rushed to the emergency room as a result of physical assault injuries. We collectively fail our children when we fail to teach them to resolve their problems in a nonviolent manner, and when we cannot provide a secure environment in which they can learn, socialize and develop. Reversing the disturbing trends of youth violence is going to take the concerted, sustained effort, collaboration and leadership of Members of Congress, the President, school boards and officials, local governments and law enforcement, and parents across this nation.“I commend the President for convening a Gun Violence Task Force, and Vice President Biden for his outstanding leadership. The President and Vice President have developed and issued policy recommendations, and as Members of Congress, we need to act. We must take on this challenge with the recognition that changing the pervasive culture of violence will not happen overnight. While we can act now and pass legislation to ameliorate some of causes of the youth violence epidemic, this problem is larger than our laws. That is why we must make an enduring commitment to our youth. We must work tirelessly to create an environment in this country that lifts the psychological burden of violence off the shoulders of our kids.”
03.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), a senior member of the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary, issued the following statement today on the eve of the U.S. Supreme Court’s consideration of two cases involving marriage equality for same-sex couples:“This week the U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in two important cases involving marriage equality. I urge the Court to continue its traditional role of being the guardian of individual liberties and the body that protects and expands the constitutional rights of the people guaranteed by the Bill of Rights, and the Equal Protection and Due Processes Clauses.“I urge the Court, therefore, to uphold the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Hollingsworth v. Perry declaring California’s Proposition 8 to be an impermissible infringement on the equal rights of gay and lesbian persons to marry. I also urge the Court to uphold the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in United States v. Windsor, which struck down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) because it unconstitutionally defines the term marriage as "a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife" and spouse as "a person of the opposite sex who is a husband or a wife" and renders same-sex couples who are lawfully married under state law ineligible for more than 1,138 federal rights, benefits and protections.”“The greatness of America lies in its history of expanding rights and liberties to its people. At its founding, for example, the right to vote was limited to propertied white males. Over time, the franchise was extended to women, and persons of color, and the young. There was a time in our history that segregation and discrimination based on race was the law of the land. That time came and passed because the nation, led in large part by the Supreme Court, was challenged to live up to the true meaning of its creed that all men are created equal. And those decisions of the Court have made our country better.“The fight for marriage equality presents another challenge for the nation and an opportunity to perfect our union by expanding freedom and liberty and putting an end to centuries of unequal treatment and discrimination. I believe the time has come for the Supreme Court to declare that the U.S. Constitution recognizes and protects loving, committed same-sex couples who want to marry for the same reasons as their straight counterparts. The desire that loving couples have to commit their lives to each other is a universal aspect of the human condition and is not now, and never has been, limited to couples of the same religion or race or gender. As Justice William O. Douglas stated nearly 50 years ago in the landmark case of Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479, 486 (1965), about the importance of marriage to human beings:“We deal with a right of privacy older than the Bill of Rights -- older than our political parties, older than our school system. Marriage is a coming together for better or for worse, hopefully enduring, and intimate to the degree of being sacred. It is an association that promotes a way of life, not causes; a harmony in living, not political faiths; a bilateral loyalty, not commercial or social projects. Yet it is an association for as noble a purpose as any involved in our prior decisions.”“Throughout my public life I have stood firmly on the side of expanded freedom and opportunity and have fought to eradicate discrimination and inequality. That is why I urge the Court to declare unconstitutional California’s Proposition 8 and Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act.”
03.26.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the death of Judge A. D. Azios, the first Hispanic judge elected in Harris County:“Judge Azios began his spectacular law career in 1949. Judge Azios graduated from South Texas School of Law in Houston, and then practiced as an attorney for over two decades before he became a municipal court judge in 1964. Educated in Laredo public schools, Judge Azios worked his way through college, majoring in pre-law at the University of Texas-Austin, where he was active in student government before serving in the Army infantry in World War II. “Judge Azios was the first Hispanic judge elected in Harris County. Among the many prominent cases in which he presided was the landmark Texas v. Cynthia Ray Campbell case, the first court in Texas to try a DNA case. Judge Azios was presented the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Hispanic Bar Association for recognition of outstanding achievement and dedicated service to the bench, bar and Houston community which he loved so much.“We have lost a vital light and uncompromising spirit that has changed lives, stood by those who were accused unfairly and commanded attention from elected officials from the White House to the State House to local government and he will be forever remembered and without question continuously missed. While still serving as a Judge and afterwards Judge Azios was always available to talk to the residents of Harris County and guide them during difficult times. He was always available to be a good friend. His good works have touched many in this community, and have lifted many to seek a better life for themselves and their children. “One of Judge Azios passions was the advancement of economically deprived students through their pursuit of educational opportunity. A scholarship fund has been started in his name. The Azios Hispanic Scholarship Fund, Inc. has a mission to increase the number of Hispanic college graduates by providing scholarships and assistance to students and their families. In spite of his full schedule, his priority was his family whom he loved with all his heart, guiding them always with his life lessons, leading them in exploring the world through the city of Houston with its rich diversity of people and places.“I send my thoughts and prayers to his wife, Lauren Cuellar Azios, their three children, their nine grandchildren and their two great-grandchildren. May God comfort them in their time of need.”
02.26.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the United States Supreme Court review of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act in Shelby v. Holder. Members of Congress, civil rights leaders and organizations, and hundreds of supporters of protecting the right to vote for all Americans will gather on the steps of the Supreme Court as the arguments are heard. “The Voting Rights Act is still one of the most critical and successful pieces of legislation that protects the right to vote for all Americans. This challenge to Section 5 of the VRA is a threat to the basic principle of our democracy that every citizen’s voice should be heard and their vote protected by our government. It also puts voters who are likely to be disenfranchised through nefarious practices across this country at risk. “This is not an issue of race or of political ideology. It is a threat to the very fabric on which our democracy was built and the foundation upon which it stands. We should not be making it more difficult for voters to cast their ballot. We should be working to do everything we can to improve access and participation in the democratic process. “I encourage my colleagues and constituents to stand with me in opposition to any effort that endangers our democracy.”
02.26.2013	September is Gospel Music Heritage Month as proclaimed by H. Con. Res. 370 which was introduced by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. During that month “gospel music” is honored for its value and longstanding contributions to the culture of the United States, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee introduced the historic resolution and led its passage in both the United States House and Senate with bi-partisan support. By the invitation of Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee on Tuesday February 26th, in Houston, TX, The Museum of Fine Arts, in association KTSU, Gospel Music Heritage Foundation and Tyscot will host a special screening of the film documentary Music Majors: The Rance Allen Group hosted by Yolanda Adams. The Congresswoman released the following statement:‘The Legendary Rance Allen Group has impacted the careers and lives of many artists in the music industry with their music style and hearts of gold. Recently, the group shared personal moments of their family history and musical journey in their new documentary, ‘Music Majors: The Rance Allen Group.’ So far, the group has received a great response from fans and supporters across the country.“Gospel music is an American art form that has spanned hundreds of years and across several generations and has touched millions of lives around the world while demonstrating its profound ability to transcend secular musical genres. Gospel music reaches all denominations and racial groups. From the Tennessee Valley, to the Appalachia, to New York to Houston, to Mississippi to Atlanta gospel music is sung by many different people all over the United States and the world.“Gospel Music speaks to everyone and the Gospel Music legislation is important because it highlights all of those stories of gospel music and the early leaders in gospel music. The influence of it can be found infused in all forms of secular music including rock & roll, country, R&B, and countless other styles. I am thankful that we have designated the month of September as Gospel Music Heritage Month which will celebrate and honor the heritage of gospel music.“Now fans in Houston, TX area will have the FIRST opportunity to host a LIVE screening of this groundbreaking documentary and the opportunity to meet and talk with the living Legend Bishop Rance Allen. The screening will take place at The Museum of Fine Arts, 1001 Bissonnet Street Houston, TX 77005 and doors will open at 5:30pm and admission is free.“Immediately following the screening, fans will have the opportunity to chat with the Bishop Rance Allen during a special Q&A panel discussion. The panel will also include, Yolanda Adams, Songwriter V. Michael McKay, Charles Hudson from KTSU-FM, Carl Davis of Gospel Music Heritage Foundation and Tyscot Records A&R Director, Sidney L. Scott“Music Majors: The Rance Allen Group, chronicles the life of Rance, Tom and Steve Allen from their early days in Monroe, OH to becoming Grammy Award nominees and performing on BET’s Celebration of Gospel. Music Majors features rare interviews with Kirk Franklin, James Fortune, Isaac Caree, Dorinda Clark-Cole, Keith Wonderboy Johnson, Shirley Murdock, Paul Porter and more.”
02.26.2013	Today, Rep. Jackson Lee stated that she opposes the House GOP Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Reauthorization substitute, introduced by the GOP Leadership on February 22 and which is scheduled to be considered by the House on Wednesday and Thursday. The GOP Leadership introduced the substitute as an alternative to S. 47, the strong, bipartisan Senate-passed VAWA bill. On February 12, the Senate passed S. 47 by a bipartisan vote of 78 to 22 – with the support of all Democrats, all female Senators and a majority of Senate Republicans.“The House GOP Leadership just doesn’t get it,” Rep. Jackson Lee said. “They don’t seem to understand the importance of all victims of domestic violence receiving critical protections. The House GOP substitute strips the bipartisan Senate bill’s protections for the LGBT community and drastically reduces protections for Native American women. It also eliminates key provisions in the Senate bill that make college campuses safer. This substitute is not a compromise. It is an unfortunate effort to exclude specific groups of women from receiving basic protections under the law. Why does the House GOP Leadership oppose protections embraced by a majority of Senate Republicans?”“I call upon the House GOP Leadership to drop their substitute and instead bring the bipartisan Senate-passed VAWA bill to the House floor,” Rep. Jackson Lee added. “I am confident it would pass. This bipartisan VAWA bill would then go straight to the President’s desk for his signature. America’s women should not have to wait any longer. House Republicans allowed VAWA to expire more than 500 days ago.”In January, House Democrats introduced H.R 11, a strong VAWA Reauthorization bill that is the companion to S. 47, the bipartisan Senate bill, and Rep. Jackson Lee is a cosponsor of that bill. H.R. 11 currently has 201 Democratic cosponsors.
02.25.2013	Today, a new report was released by the Obama Administration on the harm that automatic spending cuts scheduled to occur on Friday would cause here in Texas. Rep. Jackson Lee renewed her call for House Republicans to take swift action on a balanced plan to stop these automatic spending cuts that would threaten our economy as well as a range of vital services for children, seniors, small businesses, and our men and women in uniform. “Today, the Obama Administration reminded us of the damage to our fragile economy and to the safety and security of families here in Texas that the drastic, indiscriminate, across-the-board, automatic spending cuts that start Friday will cause. Whether it is children in school, hungry seniors, college students struggling to pay for college, people looking for a job, or women who are the victims of violence, or our public safety and health, this report details the damaging impact these cuts will have on people here in Texas. Texans cannot afford another self-inflicted wound from Washington.”“That is why on behalf of all Texans, I have joined with my colleagues to call on the House Republican leadership to do what is right for our nation’s economy, security and families and take action this week on a balanced plan to avert these damaging and mindless spending cuts. ““To date, Senate and House Democrats have offered fair, balanced plans to avert these damaging cuts. These proposals are built on responsible spending cuts, increased revenues, and growth with jobs. Yet Republicans have refused to work toward compromise on a plan to reduce the deficit because they refuse to ask the wealthy to pay a little more by closing tax loopholes ““With every passing day, thousands of jobs are at risk, the security of middle class families hang in the balance, and the safety of neighborhoods across the state of Texas are in jeopardy. Our nation’s economy cannot afford any further uncertainty, obstruction, and delay. Too much is at stake.”This new report demonstrates some of the devastating and widespread impact to local communities here in Texas:• Teachers and Schools: Texas will lose approximately $67.8 million for primary and secondary education, putting around 930 teacher and aide jobs at risk. In addition about 172,000 fewer students would be served and approximately 280 fewer schools would receive funding.• Education for Children with Disabilities: Texas will lose approximately $51 million for about 620 teachers, aides, and staff who help children with disabilities.• Head Start: Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 4,800 children in Texas, reducing access to critical early education.• Military Readiness: In Texas, approximately 52,000 civilian Department of Defense employees would be furloughed, reducing gross pay by around $274.8 million in total. • Law Enforcement and Public Safety Funds: Texas will lose about $1,103,000 in Justice Assistance Grants that support law enforcement, prosecution and courts, crime prevention and education, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, and crime victim and witness initiatives.• Job Search Assistance: Around 83,750 fewer Texans will get the help and skills they need to find employment as Texas will lose about $2,263,000 for job search assistance, referral, and placement, meaning.• Child Care: Up to 2300 disadvantaged and vulnerable children could lose access to child care, which is also essential for working parents to hold down a job.• Vaccines for Children: In Texas around 9,730 fewer children will receive vaccines for diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, whooping cough, influenza, and Hepatitis B due to reduced funding for vaccinations. • Violence Against Women Grants: Texas could lose up to $543,000 to provide services to victims of domestic violence, resulting in up to 2,100 fewer victims being served. • Public Health: Texas will lose approximately $2,402,000 to help upgrade its ability to respond to public health threats including infectious diseases, natural disasters, and biological, chemical, nuclear, and radiological events. In addition, Texas will lose about $6,750,000 in grants to help prevent and treat substance abuse, resulting in around 2,800 fewer admissions to substance abuse programs. And the Texas State Department of Public Health will lose about $1,146,000 resulting in around 28,600 fewer HIV tests.
02.16.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the mortar attack at Camp Liberty in Iraq this past weekend:“Steadfast respect and commitment for the rule of law have long been the strengths of the United States, enabling our great democracy to meet its international obligations. A particular development in Iraq is testing this democratic resiliency as well as our pledges to uphold international humanitarian principles. I am concerned with the recent mortar attack at Camp Liberty that killed six and left many wounded. It is important that Prime Minister al-Maliki and the Iraqi government realize the importance of the safety of all the refugees in that camp. As Iraq wants its refugees in other countries treated fairly, justly and to feel safe in their surroundings, it must too act as a role model when it comes to those at Camp Liberty.“I understand the Government of Iraq promptly began to investigate the attack. I call on it to earnestly and fully carry out that investigation and to take all appropriate measures to enhance the security of the camp consistent with its commitment and obligation to the safety and security of the camp's residents. The terrorists responsible for this attack must be brought to justice.“It was not enough to expect the UN to deal with the crisis - the US and Iraq must keep its promise to protect those inside Liberty. Iraq must maintain its commitment to uphold the legal and humanitarian obligations as they relate to the people of Liberty. In order to prevent a large scale humanitarian catastrophe, the U.S. government must call upon the Iraqi government to guarantee the safety of its residence until they have all been resettled elsewhere. I offer my condolences to the families of the victims and hope for the swift recovery of those who were injured.”
02.05.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement regarding the 20th anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act:“On February 5, 1993, President Bill Clinton signed the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act into law – only the third bill he signed upon becoming President, two weeks after his inauguration. “Since the enactment of the Family and Medical Leave Act 20 years ago, it has been used more than 100 million times by workers to take unpaid leave to care for themselves, their new children and their family members without having to worry that their jobs will be gone when they return.“Over the last 20 years, due to the FMLA, mothers and fathers have taken time to care for new babies. Expecting mothers have taken time to care for themselves and seek medical help during complicated pregnancies. Adult children have taken time to care for ailing parents. Indeed, nearly everyone has, or knows someone who has, benefited from the FMLA. The protections of the FMLA were most recently expanded by a Democratic-led Congress in 2010 to cover family members dealing with a military deployment or service-related injury. “The Families and Medical Leave Act has helped millions of families manage their responsibilities at work and at home. As we move forward, we need to look for ways to improve the Family and Medical Leave Act and ways to further help America’s workers better balance their responsibilities on the job with their responsibilities to their families at home.”
01.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement in response to the shooting at Lone Star College campus:“Today is yet another sad day in our country because of a senseless shooting at the Lone Star College campus in Houston, Texas. I am deeply saddened to learn about those who have been wounded because of this incident. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of the Lone Star College campus community and those who have been injured and anyone else personally impacted by this senseless act of violence. I am sure that everyone in the community of the Lone Star College campus will do whatever they can in the coming days to ease the pain, tensions and concerns of all affected.“I have introduced common sense legislation that would focus on protecting our nation from gun violence and accidents. H.R. 65 will raise the handgun eligibility age from 18 to 21, and will prohibit persons under the age of 21 from possessing semiautomatic assault weapons or large capacity magazines. Moreover, H.R. 65 increases penalties on individuals who knowingly transfer a handgun, ammunition, semiautomatic assault weapon, or large capacity ammunition feeding device to a person under age 21. We must also work to ensure that Gun Free Zones are enforced.“My prayers and condolences go first to the families of those wounded and I share the grief of everyone affected by this event. I applaud the swift work by the First Responders. Americans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This is one of those times.”
01.10.2013	Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee Provides Informational Press Release Regarding the Independent Foreclosure Review Settlement and Residents of Harris CountyHouston, TX – Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee released the following statement announcing that ten banks and mortgage companies will pay $3.3 billion in cash to borrowers and $5.2 billion in mortgage relief to settle federal regulators’ investigations into alleged foreclosure abuses:“The actions of banks and corporations like Aurora, Bank of America, Citibank, JPMorgan Chase, MetLife Bank, PNC, Sovereign, SunTrust, U.S. Bank, and Wells Fargo have forced more than 4 million families to foreclose their homes. No compensation, no amount of money, no measure of justice is enough to make it right for a family who's had their piece of the American Dream wrongly taken from them. This agreement comes out to an average settlement of $15,000 for each victim who was affected between 2009 – 2012.“As a result of this agreement, the participating servicers would cease the Independent Foreclosure Review, which involved case-by-case reviews, and replace it with a broader framework allowing eligible borrowers to receive compensation significantly more quickly. Eligible borrowers will receive compensation whether or not they filed a request for review form, and borrowers do not need to take further action to be eligible for compensation.“A payment agent will be appointed to administer payments to borrowers on behalf of the servicers. Eligible borrowers are expected to be contacted by the payment agent by the end of March with payment details. Borrowers will not be required to execute a waiver of any legal claims they may have against their servicer as a condition for receiving payment. In addition, the servicers' internal complaint process will remain available to borrowers.“I am an advocate for legislation and regulation that will better monitor the activities of corporations that risk constituents’ well-merited dollars. The American people deserve better treatment. They are owed a more effective regulated system that will protect them from corporations that gamble away their hard-earned money. It is essential that those Americans displaced by this crisis be treated fairly and placed back into their homes“For questions call 1-888-995-HOPE.”
