01.21.2019	The Bronx, NY – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement on Martin Luther King Jr. Day in commemoration of his life and work: “As we celebrate Dr. King’s life and legacy, his message remains as relevant as ever – that all Americans, regardless of race or ethnicity or background deserve justice, equality and the right to live a dignified life. While we have made enormous progress in the last few decades, in recent years we have witnessed the greatest attack to these ideas and fundamental principles. The events in Charlottesville Virginia 2 years ago, where a white supremacist protest ended in death, is perhaps the best example of the moment we are living. Today, it is more important than ever to fight to preserve Dr. King’s legacy and to renew our commitment to racial equality, anti-discrimination, and speaking out against injustice when we see it. We can’t relent in the fight for tolerance, fairness, and equal access to justice and opportunity that only makes our nation stronger and better for all. ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano was elected Chairman of the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Subcommittee for the 116th Congress by the House Appropriations Committee’s Democratic members. The CJS Subcommittee oversees several important federal agencies, including the Department of Justice, the Department of Commerce, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), and the Census Bureau, among others. In addition to the CJS subcommittee, Rep. Serrano will continue serving in the Financial Services Subcommittee and join the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Subcommittee. “From gun safety, to criminal justice reform, to scientific research and the protection of U.S. commercial interests abroad, the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee has oversight over some of our government’s most important agencies and programs. I look forward to leading my Democratic colleagues once again as we set a new agenda for the Committee to continue tackling these and other important issues in the 116th Congress. During my service in the Appropriations Committee, I have always made it a priority fighting to ensure our agencies, programs and public servants have the resources that they need to have a positive impact on the lives of millions of Americans. In particular, I want to make sure that the agencies under the subcommittee jurisdiction are focused on helping working families in the Bronx and around our nation as we face unprecedented challenges from the White House. Most of these agencies remain shut down because of President Trump’s temper tantrum to build an unnecessary wall that the vast majority of people don’t want, endangering public safety and the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of Americans. I will do everything in my power to ensure that the employees at the vital agencies are able to get back to work, and to get paid for that work.” The 12 subcommittees and their chairs are: Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies – Rep. Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA) Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies — Rep. José E. Serrano (NY) Defense — Rep. Pete Visclosky (IN) Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies — Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH) Financial Services and General Government — Rep. Mike Quigley (IL) Homeland Security — Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA) Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies — Rep. Betty McCollum (MN) Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies — Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT) Legislative Branch — Rep. Tim Ryan (OH) Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies — Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL) State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs — Rep. Nita M. Lowey (NY) Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies — Rep. David E. Price (NC) The jurisdiction of the CJS Subcommittee includes: Department of Commerce Census Bureau Economic Development Administration Minority Business Development Agency National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency (NOAA) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) International Trade Administration (ITA) Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) Executive Office for Immigration Review Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) Bureau of Prisons U.S. Marshals Service National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) National Science Foundation (NSF) Related Agencies Commission on Civil Rights Equal Employment Opportunity Commission International Trade Commission Legal Services Corporation Marine Mammal Commission Office of Science and Technology Policy Office of the United States Trade Representative State Justice Institute
01.15.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman José Serrano today released the following statement in response to the New York federal court decision blocking the Department of Commerce from including a citizenship question in the 2020 Census. Serrano is the top Democrat in the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Department of Commerce and the Census Bureau: “I am encouraged by the federal court's decision to block the Department of Commerce’s political decision to include a citizenship question in the 2020 Census. Asking respondents’ citizenship status is unwarranted on policy grounds, will discourage immigrants’ and minority communities’ participation, and ultimately undermine the only mechanism we have to obtain critical data every 10 years. The Census is the only constitutional tool we have at our disposal to gain an accurate picture of U.S. society, to ensure a fair distribution of resources, and to guarantee just representation in Congress. Today’s ruling is a victory and an important step but we must continue fighting in Congress to ensure we protect the Census from this Administration’s efforts to erase a large segment of American society from this process. As the top Democrat on Appropriations Subcommittee funding the Census, I will continue to fight for a fair and accurate count.” ###
01.07.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, celebrated the successful inclusion of additional emergency relief assistance for Puerto Rico in the new Disaster Supplemental Bill made public Friday last week by the House Appropriations Committee. The bill includes a total of $12.14 billion in recovery assistance for areas that have been affected by hurricanes and other natural disasters, including $662 million in nutrition and Medicaid assistance for Puerto Rico, the Northern Marianas, Guam, and American Samoa, of which $600 million is for nutrition assistance for Puerto Rico. It also includes waivers of local cost share requirements for FEMA Categories A (debris removal) and B (emergency protective measures) for Puerto Rico. This language is similar to the COMPROMISO Act (H.R. 6859 in the 115th Congress), which Congressman Serrano introduced on the first anniversary of Hurricane María last September. Serrano, who helped secure this important assistance for the island, released the following statement: “Millions of American citizens in Puerto Rico are still suffering the effects of Hurricanes Maria and Irma. This legislation will help ensure they have access to the help they need to successfully get back on their feet in the aftermath of the worst hurricane in the islands’ history. It will also reinstate key FEMA waivers that have helped rebuild the island during the ongoing crisis. I’m very pleased to see this important emergency relief included in the bill and thank Chairwoman Lowey for her leadership in making sure this bill truly helps the people of Puerto Rico and other territories,” said Congressman Serrano. For a summary of the legislation, click here. ###
12.10.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today applauded the approval of his resolution to honor Puerto Rican baseball player Roberto Clemente (H.Res. 792), the resolution passed the House with 385 Members in favor, one against, two voting present, and 44 Members not voting . First introduced in April 2018, the resolution urges the Secretary of the Interior to recognize the historical significance of Roberto Clemente’s place of death in Loiza, Puerto Rico, by adding it to the National Register of Historic Places. This site is the place where Roberto Clemente’s family gathers every year to throw flowers into the sea in commemoration of his death. “Roberto Clemente was a trailblazer in baseball and in his life of service outside of baseball. Tragically, he unexpectedly lost his life at the age of 38 in a plane crash while flying to deliver and monitor relief supplies to Nicaraguan earthquake victims. Through his dedication, success, and service, Roberto Clemente served as a role model for millions of youngsters in the United States and Puerto Rico. Adding the site of his untimely death to the National Register of Historic Places will create a place for our nation to honor the life of a legend for generations to come,” said Congressman Serrano. Click here to view Congressman Serrano’s remarks on his Resolution on the House Floor. ###
11.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, a senior Democratic Member of the Appropriations Committee and the longest serving Puerto Rican Member of Congress released the following statement in response to reports that President Trump’s is calling on Congress to cut off federal relief funding for Puerto Rico for its recovery after Hurricane Maria. “President Trump’s calls to further limit the resources available to Puerto Rico in the aftermath Hurricane Maria are completely tone deaf. This is just the latest example of how little the Trump Administration knows and cares about the situation on the island, its successful recovery and ultimately, its people. President Trump has hit a new low asking the federal government to cut all aid while thousands still lack access to reliable electricity, secure shelter, and good health care. The President’s charactarization of the local government’s use of federal funds is not only inaccurate, it omits the fact that Puerto Rico, as a colony, is forced to undergo several layers of additional scrutiny in terms of its plans and use of disaster funding. Puerto Rico is still in the midst of an economic crisis, and in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria local economic activity has taken a hard hit. This is funding the island desperately needs. As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I intend to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to prevent this horrifying attempt to starve the local government from taking place. Puerto Rico needs more help, not less. Our federal government, particularly the Appropriations Committee on both sides of the aisle, knows that cutting relief funding for the island will create more local economic instability and prevent the islands successful recovery. At this point, we shouldn’t be surprised by the President’s lack of compassion, but his ignorance will not go unanswered.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
11.09.2018	Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that more than $372 million in assistance is available to help older adults and low- and middle-income New Yorkers heat their homes this winter. Applications for the Home Energy Assistance Program will be accepted by local departments of social services beginning on Tuesday, November 13. "As cold winter weather approaches, this administration is steadfast in its commitment to assisting vulnerable New Yorkers struggling to pay their heating bills," Governor Cuomo said. "Whether it's senior citizens on a fixed income, or low-income working families, this assistance will keep New Yorkers safe and help them avoid having to choose between buying food or paying their heating bill." A household can receive a one-time regular HEAP benefit of up to $726 if they are eligible. Eligibility is based on income, household size and how the home is heated. A family of four can have a household income of up to $55,178 a year, or $4,598 a month, and still qualify for help. Last year, more than 1.4 million households received heating assistance through HEAP, which is overseen by the New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. Applications for the program, which is 100 percent federally funded, are accepted at local departments of social services. Anyone living outside of New York City can apply for a regular HEAP benefit online at myBenefits.ny.gov. New York City residents can download the application and mail it in. Assistance is provided on a first-come, first-served basis. Additionally, households that have already received assistance may qualify for a one-time emergency HEAP benefit if they are at risk of getting their heat shut off or running out of fuel, which they cannot afford to resupply. Applications for emergency benefits will be accepted starting on Wednesday, January 2. Anyone in need of emergency assistance should contact their local department of social services. A breakdown of the number of households that received assistance last winter, by region is below: Region Households Served 2017-18 Capital District 65,482 Central New York 60,808 Finger Lakes 92,301 Long Island 66,147 Mid-Hudson 100,828 Mohawk Valley 46,756 New York City 772,317 North Country 36,265 Southern Tier 52,107 Western New York 134,242 Total 1,427,253 Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance Commissioner Samuel D. Roberts said, "Higher energy prices are expected this winter and that makes it all the more crucial that people apply early since assistance is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. Without this assistance, the cold winter months would be even colder for many of our fellow New Yorkers." Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey said, "As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I'm proud to have helped secure these vital federal funds, which were at threat of elimination by the Trump Administration. New Yorkers should not be forced to suffer unbearably cold temperatures during winter because they can't afford exorbitant heating costs. This funding will protect residents and provide relief for paying heating bills. I commend Governor Cuomo for his commitment to this crucial program that will keep New Yorkers safe and warm this winter." Congressman José E. Serrano said, "No family should be forced to suffer through winter months in New York without home heating. This federal funding will go a long way towards providing assistance to needy individuals and families throughout our State. I thank Governor Cuomo for his continued dedication to families in New York and for maximizing this important federal program for families in the Bronx." Congresswoman Grace Meng said, "HEAP is a critical program that I've long supported and this funding will provide much needed assistance to elderly and low income New Yorkers as the cold winter weather arrives. I commend Governor Cuomo for his role in securing this funding, and look forward to continuing to work with him to protect vulnerable New Yorkers throughout our State."
11.09.2018	NEW YORK — Mayor Bill de Blasio and First Lady Chirlane McCray today announced two clinics in Puerto Rico will receive $200,000 to hire mental health professionals who will offer support to communities in Puerto Rico. The announcement follows through with a commitment made by the City in March to increase mental health services on the island as it continues recovering from the devastation of Hurricane Maria, which swept through in September 2017. The funding provides a two-year grant of $100,000 each to two health centers, which will be used to increase mental health staff and services at each facility. The Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City provided a $100,000 grant to the Hispanic Federation’s UNIDOS Disaster Relief & Recovery Program. The Hispanic Federation matched the grant, bringing the total new support for community health centers in Puerto Rico to $200,000. “New York City and Puerto Rico have a deep bond, and the struggles of their residents are our struggles too,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “Hurricane Maria devastated people on the island, both physically and mentally. This initiative will help make sure some of Puerto Rico’s most vulnerable residents have access to the mental health services they may need as they continue rebuilding their lives.” "We are thrilled to announce funding for two Health ProMed facilities serving Puerto Rican communities with especially high needs," said First Lady Chirlane McCray. "These community health centers will be able to fully address the behavioral health needs of patients who have suffered the worst of Hurricane Maria’s devastation. When people walk into a health center, we want them to get ALL the care they need." “As families in Puerto Rico rebuild their homes and communities after Hurricane Maria, the lingering mental and emotional effects after experiencing such natural disaster must also be addressed as people rebuild their lives,” said Dr. Herminia Palacio, Deputy Mayor for Health and Human Services. “This investment will give these two clinics the resources they need to ensure continued access to critical, community-based mental health care.” "In the wake of tragedy, New Yorkers have time and again partnered in powerful ways with the City and the Mayor’s Fund to help those in need,” said Darren Bloch, Senior Advisor to the Mayor and Director of the Office of Strategic Partnerships. “Thank you to the dynamic mix of non-profit, corporate, and individual supporters who helped contribute over $1.7 million in funding and goods for Hurricane Maria relief – the work was a true testament of how strong we stand with our Puerto Rican brothers and Sisters as they continue to recover from this tragedy" The two centers receiving funding are located in Vieques and Culebra, two offshore islands east of Puerto Rico. Both centers are operated by HealthproMed, an organization that has been serving the Puerto Rican community for 30 years by assuring access to health care services to the uninsured and underserved population as well as to the Medicaid patients. Residents in Vieques and Culebra have been facing serious challenges to access continuity of care as a result of Hurricanes Irma and Maria, which swept through the island in September 2017. HealthproMed Vieques HealthProMed Vieques was the only healthcare provider ready to respond 48 hours after Hurricane Maria, and still operates with the help of a power generator. With the funding, HealthProMed Vieques will increase its weekly schedule for mental health providers with two psychologists, including one dedicated to child and adolescents. The health center currently has a psychologist who offered services once a week. A psychiatrist will be at the clinic at least twice a month. HealthproMed Culebra HealthproMed Culebra was severely impacted by the hurricane, and continues operating with the help of a power generator. It currently has one social worker, one psychologist and a health educator, who offer services at the community health center twice a month. With the additional funding, the community health center will increase its schedule for mental health providers and will add a psychiatrist twice a month. “More than a year later, New Yorkers once again demonstrate their steadfast commitment to helping Puerto Rico with its long-term recovery,” said Mayor’s Fund Executive Director Toya Williford. “We thank the Hispanic Federation for their partnership in helping secure these critical mental health services, and also thank every New Yorker who donated to relief and recovery efforts in Hurricane Maria’s devastating aftermath.” “When I visited Puerto Rico last fall, I encountered so many stories of people in despair,” said Acting Health Commissioner Dr. Oxiris Barbot. “The increase in suicides among Puerto Ricans after Hurricane Maria, including among young children, is devastating. This is a much needed investment in mental health services to help Puerto Ricans heal and move forward.” “Thanks to the leadership of Mayor Bill de Blasio and First Lady Chirlane McCray, New York City continues to support Puerto Rico during its time of greatest need. Our organizational mandate is to support actions that can help Puerto Rico rise up better, stronger and more self-sufficient,” said José Calderón, President of the Hispanic Federation. “Puerto Rico is having a serious mental health crisis, and we’re especially grateful that our city’s First Lady has taken a leading role to support and shine a light on the mental health needs of our neighbors on the island. We are very proud to work with Mayor de Blasio, the First Lady and The Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City to increase behavioral health services at community health centers in Puerto Rico. It is essential support that will help provide critical help for many of our people on the island.” “For HealthproMed, but moreover, for our patients in Vieques and Culebra, this funding represents the opportunity to have appropriate access to mental health care services on their island and represent respect for their dignity as well,” said Ivonne Rivera Hernandez, Executive Director of HealthproMed. “HealthproMed deeply thanks Mayor Bill de Blasio and First Lady Chirlane McCray for this humanitarian action and for their solidarity with Vieques and Culebra. This action speaks volumes about Mayor de Blasio and the First Lady, about their humanity and nobility.” This funding builds on the City’s ongoing efforts to provide support and relief to Puerto Ricans after Hurricane Maria. After the hurricane, more than 300 city employees also deployed to aid in the recovery efforts, representing nearly 20 agencies, including the Office of Emergency Management, the Police Department, the Fire Department, the Department of Sanitation and the Department of Buildings. Through public-private partnerships, the Mayor’s Fund helped provide over $1.5 million worth of supplies to the relief effort. The island also received a $30,000 grant from the Mayor’s Fund to the International Medical Corps to support the deployment of mobile medical units that provide primary care to hurricane-affected residents without access to health facilities. The Mayor’s Fund also provided $70,000 to the Hispanic Federation’s UNIDOS Disaster Relief & Recovery Program to support other relief and recovery projects in Puerto Rico. In March, a 12-person team of mental and behavioral health experts from the New York City Health Department were deployed to train school staff across Puerto Rico in psychological first aid for students who have experienced trauma and emotional challenges in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. The trainings focused on stress management, self-care, and the importance of seeking mental health support for early intervention, and are based on evidence-based practice that reduces Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). “The incidence of individuals facing mental health issues in Puerto Rico has significantly increased in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. Meanwhile, access to adequate health care and other human services remain limited. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for once again standing in solidarity with the people of Puerto Rico by joining efforts with the Hispanic Federation UNIDOS Disaster Relief and Recovery Program to financially support two key mental health clinics in Vieques and Culebra,” said Congressman Jose Serrano. “Maria wrought devastation on Puerto Rico on many levels, not least of which is the mental health toll that has been inflicted on the Island's residents, something tragically evidenced by the increased suicide rate. These additional resources will help those who need it most and I applaud the City for taking this step. New York shares a deep bond with Puerto Rico and we must continue doing all we can to assist our brothers and sisters in their time of need,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez. “Mental health has historically been given less attention than it deserves, and as Puerto Rico recovers from Hurricane Maria, it is important that mental health services are just as readily available as any other medical service. I commend the Mayor’s office for recognizing this need and providing grants to provide mental health staffers at two of Puerto Rico’s hospitals,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. Congresswoman Grace Meng, said, “As a Member of Congress who has fought to help Puerto Rico recover from the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria, I commend the Mayor and First Lady for allocating these critical funds,” said U.S. Rep. Grace Meng (D-Queens). “Earlier this year, I traveled to the island to assess recovery efforts and saw that mental health services are among the many needs. Mayor de Blasio’s funding will help ensure that this important care is provided, and I’m proud to join the Mayor in announcing it. I thank the de Blasio administration for its continuing commitment to assist the people of Puerto Rico. I also applaud the Hispanic Federation for matching these crucial funds, and for all the work the organization has done to help the island get back on its feet. We continue to stand with our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico!” “I commend Mayor de Blasio and First Lady McCray on today’s announcement to support two clinics in Puerto Rico to help recruit and train mental health practitioners and provide mental health support across the island,” said Congressman Adriano Espaillat. “The American citizens of Puerto Rico have suffered tremendous emotional despair for over a year following the Trump Administration’s failed response to help residents recover. New York City has stood with our brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico since the day of the storm, and we will continue to lend our support to help residents along this journey to getting their daily lives back on track.” "Beyond the physical damage Hurricane Maria wreaked on Puerto Rico, it also caused much mental suffering among its people. I applaud Mayor de Blasio and First Lady Chirlane McCray for their effort to address this critical issue among the island's long suffering residents," said State Senator Luis Sepulveda. “For those affected by the devastation that Maria left in its wake, mental healthcare is pivotal to the recovery of the Island,” said State Senator-elect Jessica Ramos. “More than a year after the devastation there is still much to do, and this support will go a long way to help the island during the continued rebuilding process. The City’s continued assistance over the last year sets an example that we serve as a support to our neighbors, and I hope we can continue to drive more to support restoration of Puerto Rico’s essential systems.” “Puerto Rico still needs a great amount of support for recovery efforts. The Mayor's commitment of financial assistance will help immensely. Puerto Rico needs our help and today's announcement represents a major step forward,” said Assembly Assistant Speaker Félix W Ortiz. "After a natural disaster of the caliber of Hurricane Maria, mental health services are key to helping restore the lives of the affected. I commend Mayor de Blasio and First Lady McCray for their commitment to our Puerto Rican brothers and sisters. Puerto Rico still needs our help and we are all committed to ensuring they rise stronger than ever," said Assembly Member-elect Catalina Cruz. “Hurricane Maria triggered various mental health challenges for the people of Puerto Rico, including depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder. This funding will help connect victims to the crucial services they need as they continue to adjust to the aftermath of the natural disaster. As the Chair of the Committee on Mental Health, I thank Mayor de Blasio and First Lady McCray for investing in this much-needed initiative,” said Council Member Diana Ayala.
11.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15) led a letter from 19 members of the New York Congressional Delegation calling on the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert Wilkie to immediately address the unnecessary delays that student veterans at Fordham University and other universities across New York State are facing in receiving educational benefits promised to them under the Forever GI Bill. With last year’s passage of the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act, more commonly known as the Forever GI Bill, Congress ordered changes to enhance and expand veterans educational benefits. These changes required the VA Office of Information and Technology (OIT) to update IT systems by August 1, 2018. Nearly three months after this deadline, and two months into the academic school year, these updates remain incomplete and have led to long delays in processing benefits. Without book stipends and monthly housing allowances, student veterans cannot continue their studies properly and, worse, face the risk of eviction and homelessness. “We call on you to address these issues immediately by using whatever means possible to efficiently and accurately process claims, and ensure benefits quickly make their way to the student veterans they serve. We urge the VA to provide better communication with student veterans and their families, as well as schools and universities, to keep them informed of the progress or delays made in processing their claims. The VA must also work to prevent any student veterans from incurring any late fees or any other fines due to a delay in receiving their benefits. While we understand the VA continues to face many significant challenges, no student veteran should bear any financial burden at the hands of the VA,” the members wrote. Delegation members joining the letter to Secretary Wilkie include: Carolyn B. Maloney, Adriano Espaillat, John Katko, Thomas R. Suozzi, Nita M. Lowey, Elise M. Stefanik, Brian Higgins, Eliot L. Engel, Peter T. King, Hakeem S. Jeffries, Sean Patrick Maloney, Lee M. Zeldin, Joseph Crowley, Jerrold Nadler, Paul D. Tonko, Kathleen M. Rice, Gregory W. Meeks, and Nydia M. Velázquez. Full text of the letter: November 2, 2018 The Honorable Robert Wilkie Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary Wilkie: We write to you with great urgency regarding student veterans that attend colleges and universities in the communities we represent. Due to significant challenges within the VA’s Office of Information and Technology (OIT), these student veterans are experiencing significant delays in receiving their monthly housing allowance (MHA) and other benefits they are entitled to under federal law. As you are aware, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act, more commonly known as the Forever GI Bill, incorporated several changes to MHA benefits that required simultaneous changes in IT systems. These IT system upgrades were scheduled for completion on August 1, 2018, in time for the new academic year. However, nearly two and a half months after the deadline passed, and more than a month into the new academic year, these IT upgrades remain incomplete. This has resulted in serious delays causing undue hardship for many student veterans that we represent. These students already face multiple hurdles in continuing their higher education, and receiving the benefits they have rightly earned for their service should be the very least of their worries. We call on you to address these issues immediately by using whatever means possible to efficiently and accurately process claims, and ensure benefits quickly make their way to the student veterans they serve. We urge the VA to provide better communication with student veterans and their families, as well as schools and universities, to keep them informed of the progress or delays made in processing their claims. The VA must also work to prevent any student veterans from incurring any late fees or any other fines due to a delay in receiving their benefits. While we understand the VA continues to face many significant challenges, no student veteran should bear any financial burden at the hands of the VA. Thank you for your immediate and full attention to this issue. Our student veterans deserve better, and we remain committed to ensuring they receive the very best education possible in exchange for the sacrifices they and their families have made protecting our country. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress Carolyn B. Maloney Member of Congress Adriano Espaillat Member of Congress John Katko Member of Congress Thomas R. Suozzi Member of Congress Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress Elise M. Stefanik Member of Congress Brian Higgins Member of Congress Eliot L. Engel Member of Congress Peter T. King Member of Congress Hakeem S. Jeffries Member of Congress Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress Joseph Crowley Member of Congress Jerrold Nadler Member of Congress Paul D. Tonko Member of Congress Kathleen M. Rice Member of Congress Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Lee M. Zeldin Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Phil Roe, M.D. Chair House Committee on Veterans Affairs The Honorable Tim Walz Ranking Member House Committee on Veterans Affairs The Honorable Johnny Isakson Chair Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs The Honorable Jon Tester Ranking Member Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs The Honorable John R. Carter Chair Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee House Committee on Appropriations The Honorable Debbie Wasserman Schultz Ranking Member Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee House Committee on Appropriations ###
10.31.2018	The Bronx, NY - Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in response to the Pittsburg synagogue shooting on October 29, 2018: “It is beyond distressing that eleven people were killed on Saturday simply for practicing their faith. This act of senseless hatred and violence has no place in America. My thoughts and prayers are with the innocent victims and their loved ones,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “As we mourn their loss, we need to rededicate ourselves to action in order to stamp out hatred and bigotry in our nation. We must have serious conversations about the normalization of hate speech over the past two years, and finally vote in Congress to keep dangerous weapons out of dangerous hands. No one of any religion, race, or creed should fear for their lives simply because of who they are.” ###
10.30.2018	The Bronx, NY – Congressman Jose E. Serrano today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s claims during an Axios interview that he can get rid of birthright citizenship on his own through Executive Action: “Once again, President Trump is distorting facts and misleading the public by claiming he has discovered he can end birthright citizenship through Executive Action. Birthright Citizenship is protected by the U.S. Constitution, which means that the President cannot end it on his own. This is the President’s latest effort to fuel anti-immigrant attitudes and stoke racial divisions. We witnessed this past weekend what hate speech and hate violence leads to. Instead of proposing empty policy ideas that only further divide the American people, he should be talking about the issues all Americans care about. ###
10.16.2018	The Bronx – Today, Tuesday October 16, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) will join other Bronx elected officials, local working families, and postal union workers to call for the reestablishment of affordable banking services inside postal offices in the Bronx and the rest of the country. Congressman Serrano and local elected officials have been leading efforts in Congress and at the local level for the U.S. Postal Service to take immediate action, under its existing authority, to provide affordable financial services-- including ATMs, paycheck cashing, bill payment and electronic money transfers. Currently, more than 50% of the Bronx population either do not have a bank account or use cheaper alternative financial institutions even though they have a bank account. Participants will explain why postal banking is a win-win-win proposal and a service that the U.S. Postal Service can easily offer again. WHAT: Local elected officials and postal workers call for the reestablishment of banking services inside postal offices to expand access to free or low-cost banking services in the Bronx. WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Congressman Joe Crowley; Congressman Adriano Espaillat; other Bronx elected officials (invited); Jonathan Smith- President of the New York Metro Area Postal Union, APWU, AFL-CIO WHEN: Tuesday, October 16, 2018 at 3:00pmWHERE: Hunts Point Post Office- 800 Manida Street Bronx, NY 10471 ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
10.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded the Bronx’s District Attorney office a total of $900,000 in funding. Awarded through the DOJ’s Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Site-Based Program, this funding will ensure the Bronx DA can expand comprehensive opioid abuse treatment through the Overdose Avoidance Recovery (OAR) program, which allows low-level, non-violent offenders to access treatment instead of facing jail time. “Opioid use and abuse has been a long term problem in the Bronx, and more resources are desperately needed. This funding allows our borough to invest in treatment and recovery instead of jails by expanding local initiatives to reduce opioid use through prevention and addiction treatment services. I’m glad this important program initiated by Bronx DA Darcel Clark will be able to do more good work with this federal funding. This is an investment in our communities and ultimately our public safety,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. "This generous funding by our federal legislators including our representative, Congressman Jose E. Serrano, through the Department of Justice’s Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Site-Based Program will assist us immensely as we continue a program that has improved lives, helped families and positively affected the Bronx community. In the 10 months that the OAR program has existed, 40 people have completed treatment for opioid abuse. The grant will enable us to strengthen our efforts to steer people away from drugs and jail,” said Bronx District Attorney Darcel D. Clark. This program is a newly created part of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which was the first major substance abuse treatment and recovery legislation in 40 years. The funding will be distributed by as follows: $900,000 for the Overdose Avoidance Recovery (OAR) program awarded through the DOJ’s Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) program.
10.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded $348,911 to Bronx Community College through the Child Care Access Means Parents in School (CCAMPIS) Program. The CCAMPIS Program provides funding for child care on campus so low-income students with children do not have to miss class and can successfully complete their schooling. “College students who are parents shouldn’t have to choose between getting a college education and having child care. Far too often, students, in particular low-income students, with children end up opting to drop out of school because they don’t have access to affordable, reliable child care while they go to school. This funding will help Bronx Community College provide child care on campus so low-income students with children can continue studying and obtain the credentials that they need to start a career and provide for their children. This is an investment in the future of our children and our college students,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. More than half of all BCC students work while attending classes, and 55% have children under the age of 5,” said BCC president Thomas Isekenegbe. “Their ability to access high-quality child care gives them peace of mind and the support they need to pursue their studies.” ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15), and members of CHC leadership, sent a letter to Smithsonian Institution Secretary David Skorton, requesting a meeting to discuss concerns about the recent findings from a University of California study which found that the Smithsonian has failed to heed its own recommendations and take measures to improve the representation of Latinos and Latinas across exhibitions and its workforce. The letter was signed by Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Lujan Grisham (NM-01), First Vice Chair Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20); Second Vice Chair Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07); Whip Congressman Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Freshman Representative Congressman Adriano Espaillat (NY-13). Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15), are the primary sponsors of the National Museum of the American Latino Act (H.R. 2911/S. 1364). The National Museum of the American Latino Act is a bipartisan, bicameral legislative effort to establish the National Museum of the American Latino within the Smithsonian Institution and help share and celebrate the history, culture, arts, and contributions made by Latinos in the United States. Full text of the letter follows and can be found here. September 28, 2018 The Honorable David J. Skorton Secretary Smithsonian Institution P.O. Box 37012, MRC019 Washington, DC 20013-7012 Dear Secretary Skorton, We write to request a meeting with you to discuss our concerns about the recent findings from a University of California study titled “Invisible No More: An Evaluation of the Smithsonian Institution and Latino Representation.”[1] According to the study, the Smithsonian Institution has failed to implement six of its own ten recommendations to improve the representation of Latinos and Latinas across its exhibitions and workforce. As Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, we remain deeply concerned about the lack of progress on Latino inclusion efforts from the Smithsonian Institution As you know, in 1994 the Smithsonian Institution Task Force on Latino Issues published a report titled “Willful Neglect; The Smithsonian Institution and U.S. Latinos.”[2] That report detailed a series of 10 recommendations “in order for Latinos to gain equitable and appropriate inclusion […] throughout the Institutions international complex of facilities and programs.”[3] The 10 recommendations broadly advocated for the Smithsonian to improve its efforts to recruit, retain and promote Latinos at every level, from its governance and advisory bodies to its curators and management areas. The Task Force also recommended the creation of two new positions to assure the implementation of its recommendations including accountability measures, the inclusion of Latinos in its budgetary planning, and greater Latino representation among the Smithsonian collections. Most importantly, the Smithsonian’s own taskforce recommended the Institution to immediately lay the “groundwork needed to assure the establishment of one or more museums portraying the historical, cultural and artistic achievements of U.S. Hispanics.” The researchers at the UCLA Chicano Studies Research Center found that since 1994, Latinos and Latinas have remained severely underrepresented in positions of leadership and governance. It states that since 1994, only four Latinos/as have served in the Institutions executive ranks or in its Board of Regents. Additionally there has not been a single Hispanic in the Office of the Secretary between 2008 and 2017 or a Regent since 2016. Furthermore, the researchers note that there has not been a single mention of a museum for the Latino American in any of its annual reports since 1994, despite the fact that there has been an active effort led by Congress for the past 15 years. Given these findings, we would appreciate the opportunity for you to address our concerns in-person in the near future. To schedule a meeting please contact Alma Acosta, Executive Director of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, at Alma.Acosta@mail.house.gov, Angel Colón-Rivera, Senior Advisor to Senator Robert Menendez, at Angel_Colon@menendez.senate.gov, and Marcus Garza, Senior Legislative Assistant to Congressman José E. Serrano at Marcus.Garza@mail.house.gov. We look forward to hearing from you soon and would like to thank you for consideration of our request. Sincerely, # # # https://congressionalhispaniccaucus-lujangrisham.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/congressional-hispanic-caucus-requests-meeting-with-smithsonian The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
09.20.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, in commemoration of the passage of Hurricane Maria through Puerto Rico a year ago, Congressman Serrano introduced the COMPROMISO Act - the Continuing Our Mission in Puerto Rico to Optimize and Modernize Infrastructure and Sustain Obligations Act. Co-sponsored by Reps. González-Colón, Velázquez, Soto, and Gutiérrez, this bill would extend 100 percent cost share waivers for FEMA categories A and B in Puerto Rico to ensure that the federal government covers the costs of emergency assistance to the island as a result of Hurricane Maria. In 2007, in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma, Dennis and Rita, similar language was incorporated into Public Law 110-28 to extend local cost share waivers for the Gulf Coast states that had been affected by these hurricanes. Click here for background info and more details on this change: https://serrano.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/serrano-leads-bipartisan-letter-extend-fema-cost-share-waivers-puerto “One year after Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico is still struggling to fully recover. While we’ve made tremendous progress in Congress by securing significant emergency relief funding for the island, most of this funding hasn’t been disbursed and the island is still going through a financial crisis. Puerto Rico’s local government still can’t bear the burden of FEMA’s cost share requirement, and demanding that it do so now will only further slow and hinder local recovery efforts. This bill will extend the cost share waivers to ensure the federal government continues covering this cost as it did in the Gulf Coast states after Hurricane Katrina,” said Congressman Serrano. Congressman Serrano also published an Op-Ed on The Hill today on the one year anniversary of Hurricane Maria’s passage through Puerto Rico, the federal government’s response, and the need for the federal government to commit itself to the island’s reconstruction.
09.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – As hurricane season is well underway and students return to school, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) led a letter, along with Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Elizabeth Warren, and Bernie Sanders, to U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos following up on two previous letters to inquire about the status of federal disaster aid allocated to help displaced students and directly impacted institutions of higher education affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. The members questioned again why only such a small percentage of the funding appropriated for these purposes had been disbursed; why numerous application hurdles hadn’t been fixed or addressed, and why the Department continues to ignore criticism and recommendations from members of Congress. “As you are aware, the Puerto Rican government’s official estimate of the lives lost in Puerto Rico from these hurricanes and their aftermaths was recently revised, indicating that 2,975 individuals perished in the storms. Many communities, particularly in rural areas, continue to struggle to recover. Nevertheless, it appears the Department has only spent $5.4 million, or just seven percent, of the $75 million Congress appropriated in disaster aid for displaced students affected by the hurricanes. Of the $100 million Congress appropriated for directly impacted institutions of higher education, the Department has only disbursed $63 million, leaving nearly $37 million of that funding left unspent. It was Congress’s intent to have this funding disbursed as quickly as possible to help affected students recover and to complete their studies. Unfortunately, it appears that the Department fails to see any sense of urgency in the matter—even as a new hurricane season has begun,” the members wrote. “It is unfortunate that the Department appears to be doing only the minimum to provide funding to students and institutions of higher education impacted by last year’s hurricanes. We hope that you actively work to change that perception by making recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and other impacted areas a high priority for the Department, just as you would any other state. Additionally, it is essential for the Department to act expediently in order to be able to adequately respond to storm damage that may occur during the current hurricane season. We look forward to your prompt response to the questions above,” the group added. FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER BELOW: September 14, 2018 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: Once again, we write to you regarding our continued concerns over the U.S. Department of Education’s (“Department”) handling of disaster recovery aid from last year’s hurricane season. More than seven months after Congress passed the Bipartisan Budget Act and appropriated millions of dollars in emergency funding for institutions of higher education serving students affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, the Department continues to drag its feet in getting this funding into the hands of students and communities that need assistance. As you are aware, the Puerto Rican government’s official estimate of the lives lost in Puerto Rico from these hurricanes and their aftermaths was recently revised, indicating that 2,975 individuals perished in the storms. Many communities, particularly in rural areas, continue to struggle to recover. Nevertheless, it appears the Department has only spent $5.4 million, or just seven percent, of the $75 million Congress appropriated in disaster aid for displaced students affected by the hurricanes. Of the $100 million Congress appropriated for directly impacted institutions of higher education, the Department has only disbursed $63 million, leaving nearly $37 million of that funding left unspent. It was Congress’s intent to have this funding disbursed as quickly as possible to help affected students recover and to complete their studies. Unfortunately, it appears that the Department fails to see any sense of urgency in the matter—even as a new hurricane season has begun. While we understand the Department continues to accept applications for all 2017 disaster aid, it has not made this apparent to potential beneficiaries. Only recently, the Department has updated its Defraying Costs of Enrolling Displaced Students (DCEDS) Program webpage to reflect an updated deadline for new submissions: October 31, 2018. However, the same has not been done for the pre-application and full application deadlines for Emergency Aid for Institutions of Higher Education (EAI) Program, which currently states the application period ended June 4, 2018, and August 1, 2018, respectively. It is our understanding that the Department has also failed to proactively notify any potential applicants that the stated deadlines are not applicable and that new deadlines have been set. If institutions do not know they can continue applying for funds, it is unlikely they would spend valuable time and resources preparing an application for submission. This is a serious failure of communication. The Department has repeatedly ignored criticism and recommendations from members of Congress on how best to fairly and expeditiously disburse emergency aid. We believe the application hurdles we previously identified—and which the Department ignored—have clearly resulted in the low level of applications for assistance. Given our concerns, which we have brought to your attention multiple times over the course of the past seven months, we would like your response to the following questions: Will the Department immediately update its website for EAI funding to reflect that applications will continue to be accepted, similar to the update made to the DCEDS program webpage? Has the Department denied any applications for formatting errors or other technical mistakes, and if so, how many? If any applications were denied, did the Department allow these institutions of higher education to appeal their application’s denial? Will the Department allow any institutions of higher education that have been denied to re-apply for funding? Will the Department allow any institutions of higher education that were previously awarded funding to re-apply if they have remaining need? What actions will the Department take to proactively provide the necessary information and outreach directly to institutions of higher education that funds are available? Has the Department experienced any other barriers in disbursing emergency aid that Congress should know of? It is unfortunate that the Department appears to be doing only the minimum to provide funding to students and institutions of higher education impacted by last year’s hurricanes. We hope that you actively work to change that perception by making recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and other impacted areas a high priority for the Department, just as you would any other state. Additionally, it is essential for the Department to act expediently in order to be able to adequately respond to storm damage that may occur during the current hurricane season. We look forward to your prompt response to the questions above. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Kirsten Gillibrand U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren U.S. Senator Bernard Sanders U.S. Senator
09.14.2018	Members Call on Congress to Swiftly Pass The National Museum of the American Latino Act to Improve Latino Representation in the Institution’s Work Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), and Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) issued the following joint statement in response to the UCLA Latino Policy and Politics Initiative report entitled Invisible No More, which highlights the Smithsonian Institution’s systemic underrepresentation of Latino arts and culture and failure to implement its own recommendations to improve Latino representation within the Institution. “The findings in the Invisible No More report are quite alarming, but come as no surprise to many of us. In the 24 years since the initial report was released, the Smithsonian Institution has ignored many of its own recommendations to improve Latino inclusion and representation at all levels of the Institution. The continued failure to make any progress on these key goals underscores the Institution’s lack of commitment to the Latino community. “American Latinos are the largest and fastest growing ethnic group in the United States. The U.S. Census estimates that by 2060 this population will reach nearly 119 million, or 30 percent of the U.S. population. The contributions this community has made to American culture and our way of life since our nation was founded are immeasurable. Yet, Latinos remain vastly underrepresented in nearly every facet of American life. “We urge our colleagues in Congress to join us in supporting The National Museum of the American Latino Act to quickly pass and begin the process of establishing a new museum on the National Mall dedicated to highlighting and sharing the American Latino experience with the world. The rich history and experience of millions of American Latinos that have helped shape our society deserves to be told. The time to act is now.” In 1994, the Smithsonian Institution issued Willful Neglect, a report that acknowledged a severe lack of Latino representation within the Institution. It issued 10 recommendations to improve Latino inclusion. The UCLA LPPI report is the first attempt to measure the Institution’s progress in implementing its own goals in 24 years. The report found that the Institution failed to make progress on 7 of its 10 overall recommendations. In addition, the report found that the continued decrease in federal funding for the Smithsonian Latino Center and a pervasive dearth of leadership roles held by Latinos remain ongoing barriers to full Latino inclusion and representation. The National Museum of the American Latino Act (H.R. 2911/S. 1364) is bipartisan, bicameral legislation that will establish the creation of the National Museum of the American Latino within the Smithsonian Institution to share and celebrate the history, culture, arts, and contributions made by Latinos in the United States. Its primary sponsors are Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), and Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ). The legislation currently enjoys the support of 47 members of the House of Representatives (14 Republicans and 32 Democrats) and 13 Senators (5 Republicans and 8 Democrats). More information about the legislation can be found here. ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress
09.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, today led a letter to House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Nita Lowey asking the Appropriations Committee to include language in an upcoming Continuing Resolution to extend cost share waivers for FEMA categories A and B in Puerto Rico to ensure that the federal government continues to cover the cost of all emergency activities in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. In 2007, similar language was incorporated into Public Law 110-28 to extend local cost share waivers for the Gulf Coast states in the aftermath of with Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma, Dennis and Rita. In addition to Representative Serrano, the letter was signed by Representatives González-Colón, Velázquez, Gutiérrez, and Soto. On August 15, 2018, FEMA announced that it would not continue covering the full cost of these expenses, which will now be an added burden on the local government and hinder recovery efforts. For Category A, the decision was effective that same day. For category B the decision will go into effect on September 15, 2018. While the Governor of Puerto Rico has appealed the decision, it is not apparent that FEMA intends to reverse it. “Significant work remains on the island of Puerto Rico. According to the government on the island, more than 4 million cubic yards of debris must still be cleaned up. The Sheltering and Temporary Essential Power (STEP) program still has more than 60,000 work orders to complete, which is more than 50 percent of the total number of work orders. Numerous critical health and safety facilities on the island still rely on generator power to ensure safety and continuity. The current fiscal situation in Puerto Rico, together with these ongoing issues, means that the withdrawal of full federal support for recovery efforts will significantly hinder the ability of Puerto Ricans to rebuild their homes, businesses, and infrastructure,” the members wrote. FULL TEXT BELOW: September 6, 2018 Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman, Committee on Appropriations H-305, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Representative Nita Lowey Ranking Member, Committee on Appropriations 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey, We write to request the inclusion of language in any upcoming continuing resolution (CR) to prevent the cessation of local cost share waivers for Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) Categories A and B for Puerto Rico. While FEMA has announced its intention to let these waivers expire,[1] significant work remains undone, Puerto Rico’s fiscal situation is precarious, and federal assistance is still vitally needed. In 2007, well after Hurricane Katrina, Congress used the appropriations process to extend cost share waivers for the Gulf Coast states, and we believe that the Congress should do the same in the aftermath of this tragedy. As you may know, on August 15, 2018, FEMA announced that it would not extend 100 percent federal cost share for Puerto Rico for FEMA Categories A and B. The decision was effective on that day for Category A, and will go into effect on September 15, 2018 for Category B. The Governor of Puerto Rico, in line with administrative requirements, has appealed that determination, but it is not apparent that FEMA intends to reverse their decision. Significant work remains on the island of Puerto Rico. According to the government on the island, more than 4 million cubic yards of debris must still be cleaned up.[2] The Sheltering and Temporary Essential Power (STEP) program still has more than 60,000 work orders to complete, which is more than 50 percent of the total number of work orders.[3] Numerous critical health and safety facilities on the island still rely on generator power to ensure safety and continuity.[4] The current fiscal situation in Puerto Rico, together with these ongoing issues, means that the withdrawal of full federal support for recovery efforts will significantly hinder the ability of Puerto Ricans to rebuild their homes, businesses, and infrastructure. To ensure that recovery efforts continue, we believe that any CR should include the following language to ensure that the cost-share waivers remain in place: “Section xxxx “(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including any agreement, the Federal share of assistance, including direct Federal assistance, provided to Puerto Rico in connection with Hurricanes Irma and Maria under sections 403, 406, 407, 408 and 428 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 USC 5170b, 5172, 5173, 5174, 5189f) shall be 100 percent of the eligible costs under such sections. “(b) APPLICABILITY “(1) IN GENERAL—The federal share provided by subsection (a) shall apply to disaster assistance applied for before the date of enactment of this Act. “(2) LIMITATION—In the case of disaster assistance provided under Section 403, 406 and 407 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, the Federal share provided by subsection (a) shall be limited to assistance provided for projects for which a "request for public assistance form" has been submitted.” This language will help ensure that the federal government maintains its full responsibility for relief and recovery work on the island of Puerto Rico. The American citizens who are still suffering deserve no less. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. [1] Brock Long, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Administration, “Letter from FEMA Administrator to Omar Marrero, Governor's Authorized Representative" (August 15, 2018). [2] Rosselló, Ricardo, Governor of Puerto Rico, “FEMA Appeal Letter,” (August 30,2018), p. 6. [3] Id. at 5. [4] Id.
09.05.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that CUNY Hostos Community College has been awarded $207,452 in funding for their project “Collaborative Research: RUI: Examining linkages between Agulhas Leakage and ocean overturning in the last glacial cycle and through the mid-Pleistocene transition.” The grant comes from the National Science Foundation (NSF)’s Division of Ocean Sciences, which supports efforts to better understand global oceans and ocean basins. The project aims to examine past ocean systems to better understand our current climate, and will allow a diverse research team to receive mentoring and engage in international collaboration. To read more on the project click here. Serrano oversees NSF funding as the Ranking Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee. “It is exciting to see Hostos Community College participate in and lead international research on our ocean systems. This grant will continue to encourage college students to get involved and pursue careers in the STEM fields while helping the scientific community better understand changes in our global ocean ecosystems. I look forward to seeing the results of this project in the near future,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. Within the past two weeks, NSF has announced a total of 6.2 million dollars in funding for three different projects at colleges and universities in the Bronx. To find out more about past announcements, click here and here. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.29.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that Bronx Community College (BCC) has been awarded $4,999,921 in funding by the National Science Foundation (NSF) for their “Developing a Growth Mindset Model to Build Resiliency in STEM Students” project. The grant comes from The NSF Scholarships in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (S-STEM) program, which supports the retention and graduation of high-achieving, low-income students in STEM fields with demonstrated financial need. This project will be administered by Bronx Community College and will also serve Lehman College, both Hispanic-Serving Institutions in the City University of New York system. It will fund 575 scholarships for 10 groups of students who are pursuing associate degrees at Bronx Community College and baccalaureate degrees at Lehman College across STEM fields. The scholarship will provide students with the necessary support to foster a successful educational journey in fields that are typically not sought after by individuals of low-income backgrounds. “With this federal grant we are investing in the future of our communities. This grant will provide students in the Bronx with the tools and access to successfully attain an education in various STEM fields. As the Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds NSF and this initiative, I have focused on expanding STEM opportunities to groups that are traditionally underrepresented in these career paths. Minorities continue to make up a small percentage of the STEM workforce in our country, which is a lost opportunity for employers, students, and our nation. We need to support the best and the brightest from all communities and this grant will help bridge the gap,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.29.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that Fordham University has been awarded $1 million in funding for their project "Achievement in STEM through a Program of Immersive Research Experiences and Support. The grant comes from the National Science Foundation (NSF) Scholarships in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (S-STEM) program, which supports the retention and graduation of high-achieving, low-income students with demonstrated financial need. The project will provide students from low-income and minority communities with $10,000 in financial assistance as well as a pre-enrollment summer academic and career-focused orientation program; a year-long Introduction to Research course and a full-time summer research internship. Serrano oversees NSF funding as the Ranking Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee. “This grant will help Fordham University foster some of our most vulnerable students in STEM majors. It will create a community for students of disadvantaged backgrounds that continue to be underrepresented in STEM fields. For America to continue to lead in the sciences, we must continue to foster the talent of all our communities through grants such as this one. As the Ranking Democrat overseeing NSF funding, I thank the Foundation for investing in the Bronx,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) led a letter with 29 members of Congress to U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Acosta and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler on recent reports of skyrocketing asthma cases and worsening asthma symptoms in Puerto Rico following the aftermath of Hurricanes Irma and Maria more than 10 months ago. The letter is a request for information on the federal government’s response to the growing threat of an asthma crisis on the island in order to take appropriate Congressional action. “Puerto Rico is not new to the threat of asthma. More than 415,000 Puerto Ricans on the island live with the chronic disease. However, what we are hearing from doctors on the island is a cause for great concern,” said Congressman Serrano. “Damaged homes and buildings still in need of repair are a breeding ground for mold spores and other pests that trigger asthma symptoms. The prolonged use of gas- and diesel-powered generators that power many buildings as the island continues to cope with an unstable electrical grid are spewing toxins that make the air difficult to breathe. Meanwhile, the number of doctors on the island is shrinking and access to quality health care is more limited every day. The pace of recovery has been unacceptably slow, and we fear that it may be leading to another public health crisis. Congress needs to know what the federal government is doing, or plans to do, to address this matter in a timely manner.” A recent article in the Associated Press, Puerto Rico struggles with jump in asthma cases post-Maria, reported that many doctors are seeing an alarming number of new asthma cases and individuals are experiencing more severe symptoms since the hurricanes devastated the island last September. The article highlights the many side effects of the storm’s lasting damage and slow pace of recovery as potential reasons for the increasing cases. The federal government must continue being responsive to the needs of Puerto Ricans as they continue on the long road to full recovery. Members of Congress joining Congressman Serrano’s letter include: Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-At Large), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Pramila Jayapal, Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Al Green (TX-09), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-09), Dwight Evans (PA-02), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), James P. McGovern, Eliot L. Engel (NY-16), Richard E. Neal (MA-01), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Jacky Rosen (NY-03), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU-At Large), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), and Grace Meng (NY-06). Full text of the letter below and attached: August 6, 2018 The Honorable Alex M. Azar II Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20201 The Honorable Andrew Wheeler Acting Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Secretary Azar and Acting Administrator Wheeler: We write to you regarding the federal response to the alarming increase in asthma cases in Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricanes Maria and Irma recently detailed in media reports.[1] Doctors have also indicated that symptoms have become more severe for those already living with this chronic disease.[2 As you know, asthma rates on the island have been disproportionately high for some time. The Puerto Rican Department of Health estimates that more than 415,000 people on the island live with asthma.[3] However, while the disease may be manageable for most individuals, we fear that many of the persistent problems the island faces as it continues in its recovery efforts have created an environment that is making matters worse for those affected by asthma and other chronic upper respiratory illnesses. Many parts of Puerto Rico, including the surrounding islands of Culebra and Vieques, continue using gas- and diesel-powered generators as a main source of energy while power remains unstable.[4] In many parts of the island, power is still not available since Hurricane Maria hit nearly 10 months ago.[5] The fumes from generators clustered around sensitive locations like churches, hospitals, apartment buildings, homes, and schools are exposing children and families to toxins that can affect breathing and induce asthma attacks. [6] In addition, reports also indicate that many families live in homes or near buildings damaged by the storms, where mold spores continue growing because of the lack of proper treatment and slow pace of repair.[7] Debris and waste that remains piled near vacant buildings and along many roadsides have become home to vermin and other pests that trigger asthma symptoms. Overall, many factors, including the island’s tropical climate, have made this crisis much worse for tens of thousands of Puerto Ricans. Therefore, we request more information about the federal government’s efforts to address these valid health concerns during continued recovery efforts. To better understand the state of the current situation in Puerto Rico and take Congressional action accordingly, we ask for a thorough response to the following questions as soon as possible: What disaster aid dollars from FEMA, HHS, or elsewhere have you dedicated to mitigating the effect of the 2017 hurricane season and its aftermath on chronic diseases, including asthma? Please provide a list of agency programs and funding dedicated to this issue. What actions have you taken to date to address these issues? Has the EPA or CDC, in consultation with Puerto Rican health officials, conducted air quality assessments in the aftermath of the storm? If so, what were the results? How often have those assessments taken place? Has FEMA or HHS conducted mold, mildew, and pest mitigation in homes or other structures to minimize the growth of mold spores and other irritants that spur asthma attacks and symptoms? How widespread is generator-use in Puerto Rico currently? Have these generators met all safety and environmental standards? Please provide any agency data demonstrating generators are in compliance with all applicable standards. What information have citizens received to help control and minimize the severity of asthma symptoms? What, if any, barriers are you facing in addressing these concerns? What current programs are in place to mitigate the causes of increased asthma rates and attack severity going forward? Please provide a list of programs and the number of agency FTEs working on these programs. As members of Congress, we have a responsibility to make sure the federal government does not forget about our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico as they continue to recover. We ask that, in addition to responding to the stated questions above, you continue to keep our offices fully informed of continued recovery efforts. Thank you for your attention to this request, and we look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. [1] Associated Press. “Puerto Rico struggles with jump in asthma cases post-Maria.” June 18, 2018. www.apnews.com/23793064cc954c69a176cb094e6c96aa/Puerto-Rico-struggles-with-jump-in-asthma-cases-post-Maria [2] The Weather Channel. Asthma Cases Spike in Puerto Rico Post-Hurricane Maria. June 20, 2018. https://weather.com/storms/hurricane/video/asthma-cases-spike-in-puerto-rico-post-hurricane-maria [3] Puerto Rico Department of Health. Asthma Burden Report: Puerto Rico Asthma Program. 2014. http://nebula.wsimg.com/4c4e1265d6ce49a6bfd67c035e954213?AccessKeyId=036DD2B5D5CF18C9F639&disposition=0&alloworigin=1 [4] U.S. News and World Report. “Puerto Ricans Regain Power, but Fear for Long Term.” Associated Press. July 16, 2018. https://www.usnews.com/news/healthiest-communities/articles/2018-07-16/puerto-ricans-return-to-power-grid-but-fear-for-long-term [5] Id. [6] NPR. “In Puerto Rico, Generators Divide Those With and Those Without. October 15, 2017. https://www.npr.org/2017/10/15/557934009/in-puerto-rico-generators-divide-those-with-and-those-without [7] McCabe, Coco. “In Puerto Rico, a shortage of tarps and electricity means the misery continues for storm-weary people. Oxfam. October 18, 2018. https://www.oxfamamerica.org/explore/stories/in-puerto-rico-a-shortage-of-tarps-and-electricity-means-the-misery-continues-for-storm-weary-people/
08.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) today announced the first round of National Science Foundation (NSF) funding under the Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) Program. As lead Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee—which funds NSF and the HSI program—Congressman Serrano and Congressman Crowley successfully included language in the America COMPETES Act that mandated the creation of an HSI program. HSIs received $30 million in funding in FY 2018 and due to the efforts of Congressman Serrano, the House Appropriations Committee has increased funding for this program to $50 million for FY 2019. Under this round of NSF HSI grants, a total of 31 educational institutions, including two in New York City and one in Puerto Rico, received a total of $45 million in funding. “This HSI program funding will lead to greater collaboration between the National Science Foundation and Hispanic-Serving Institutions across the nation to further invest in our Hispanic students and their education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Hispanics currently make up 16 percent of the U.S. workforce, but only 6 percent pursue careers in the STEM fields. We need to make sure that every American is ready to participate, contribute, and pursue careers in these fields now and in the future. These awards will help ensure that HSIs, which have traditionally lacked funding, can educate future Hispanic scientists and engineers,” said Congressman Serrano. Click here for more information about the NSF HSI Program: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=505512&org=EHR&sel_org=EHR&from=fund For more information about the full list of awardees, click here: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/advancedSearchResult?ProgEleCode=077Y&BooleanElement=Any&BooleanRef=Any&ActiveAwards=true&#results ###
08.02.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced that Bronx Community College in the Bronx will receive $317,098 in funding to develop and offer new science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) courses through the NASA’s Minority University Research and Education Project (MUREP). These courses provide minority and low-income students with the opportunity to participate in NASA-related STEM workshops. The goal of the project is to help prepare, train, and develop NASA’s future workforce. “The STEM fields will only continue growing in importance in coming years. By engaging minority serving institutions like Bronx Community College, NASA is helping ensure that every child has access to the education and training they need to pursue careers in the STEM fields and at NASA itself regardless of social or economic background. This funding is an investment in our future generations, in NASA’s future capabilities, and in our future scientific competitiveness. As the Ranking Democrat on the appropriations subcommittee that funds NASA, I have prioritized efforts to expand opportunities for our most talented individuals from all communities to enter the STEM fields,” said Congressman Serrano. Bronx Community College was one of five education institutions selected for this grant award. More information on their initiative from NASA’s grant award notification is below: Bronx Community College, New York The courses proposed by this school are geared toward enrolling minority and low-income students to participate in a series of hands-on and field-based workshops. The workshops will focus on inquiry-based geospatial technology and STEM activities developed by using NASA’s online data repositories and state-of-the-art equipment available through partner institutions. The participants will learn to analyze Earth observation data, develop automated feature extraction tools, and perform image analysis and classification.For information about NASA's education programs, visit: https://www.nasa.gov/education Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY15) released the following statement today in response to new information on Secretary Ross’s role in the inclusion of a citizenship question on the 2020 Census, which was made public today in the thousands of emails released by the Trump Administration in response to pending lawsuits against the Secretary. Congressman Serrano currently serves as Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, which has oversight over funding for the Department of Commerce. “When Secretary Ross appeared before the CJS Appropriations Subcommittee on March 20, 2018 to discuss the Department’s budget needs, I specifically asked him about the citizenship question, his views on it, and whether the Department had made a decision about including it in the 2020 Census. His answer was essentially that the Department was still considering the question and that a decision had not been made. The emails made public today as part of the lawsuit against Secretary Ross for the inclusion of the question bear out that Secretary Ross misled me, the entire Appropriations Committee, and the public by testifying that the Department was still considering including the question when in fact a decision had already been made. Secretary Ross obviously had a clear stance and keen interest in including the citizenship question from the start, and repeatedly pushed for its inclusion throughout the process. This revelation is disturbing, alarming, and evidences that the Administration was seeking this change purely for political reasons, not because it made any sense as a policy. The emails make clear that this question’s addition to the 2020 Census has no basis in policy. It should be removed immediately.” Watch Secretary Ross’s appearance before the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee on March 20, 2018 here: https://appropriations.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=395131 ###
07.23.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY) and 13 additional New York bicameral members of Congress have written to top immigration enforcement officials demanding answers on the Executive Office of Immigration Review (EOIR) and ICE’s abrupt policy to substitute in-person hearings for video conference calls at its processing center in Lower Manhattan. In the letter, the lawmakers argue that forcing immigrants to resort to video conferencing during legal proceedings undermines one’s right to full and fair consideration of their case. “This is the latest Trump Administration assault on immigrants’ rights and a clear effort to undermine our due process system,” said Velázquez. “By gutting in-person hearings, EOIR and ICE are making it harder for immigrants to exercise their constitutional rights. We are demanding a full explanation of how ICE arrived at and is justifying this policy change.” “The sudden replacement of in-person hearings for video conference calls in Lower Manhattan is baffling and unsubstantiated. In all likelihood, this change will only have an adverse impact on immigrants’ ability to use all the legal resources and options available to them – which in turn has a negative impact on the result of their removal proceedings. We need more details as to why it decided to get rid of in-person hearings in parts of NYC without notifying the public in advance and what the intended and unintended consequences will be. These changes undermine constitutional due process without justification, and New Yorkers need answers as to why,” said Serrano. On the heels of President Trump’s tweet saying immigrants at the border should be denied due process, officials in EOIR Lower Manhattan immigration court made a quiet decision to switch from in-person hearings to video conferences for immigrants seeking counsel. In the letter, the lawmakers are asking EOIR and ICE to provide justification and an explanation for the sudden policy change. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF, click here. July 23, 2018 The Honorable Ronald D. Vitiello The Honorable James McHenry Deputy Director and Acting Director Director U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Executive Office for Immigration Review Washington, D.C. 20536 Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Deputy Director and Acting Director Vitiello: As Members of Congress, we write to express our concerns over the abrupt decision taken by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to substitute in-person hearings for video conference calls at its processing center in Lower Manhattan, New York.[1] This practice is likely to result in substantially negative consequences for immigrants who are attempting to exercise all their legal options prior to being potentially deported from the United States. Under the announced video conference call policy, it is unlikely that an immigrant in deportation proceedings will be able to receive full and fair consideration of their petition and to meet with an attorney. It may also impact an immigrant’s ability to exercise their full rights to attorney-client confidentiality.[2]Given the deeply concerning nature of this policy and its ability to impact full and fair consideration of petitions and requests, consistent with applicable rules, law and regulations, we ask that you provide answers to the following questions: Your agency has decided that “hearings [have] been canceled because of safety reasons.” Please specify what conditions, incidents or potentially harmful risk exists for judges, adjudicating officers, detainees, or officers of the court. How frequently have these conditions interfered with the duties of officers or judges? What steps were taken to remedy such conditions before deciding to cancel hearings? Have such conditions generated any processing backlogs? In your review, how does this policy impact the due process for immigrants? How does your agency intend to provide language interpreters or culturally sensitive solutions for immigrants whose cases will now be heard via a video conference? How many immigration courts in the EOIR system currently use video conference hearings in lieu of in person hearings? Excluding the Varick Street Immigration Court, what percentage of immigration proceedings currently taking place in other immigration courts use video conference technologies? What percentage of immigration proceedings for detained immigrants nationally current take place via video conference technologies? Please provide this information broken out by court location. Absent the alleged safety reasons discussion, under what circumstances is this change necessary? How are these circumstances, if at all, more important than providing immigrants the right to appropriate access to legal counsel that has been provided by the local jurisdiction in question? Due to the nature of this policy change in New York and its sudden implementation, we request that you submit answers to these questions no later than 15 business days from the date of this letter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Nydia M. Velázquez José E. Serrano Member of Congress Member of Congress Charles Schumer Kirsten Gillibrand United States Senator United States Senator Yvette D. Clarke Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Member of Congress Adriano Espaillat Hakeem S. Jeffries Member of Congress Member of Congress Thomas R. Suozzi Grace Meng Member of Congress Member of Congress Jerrold Nadler Carolyn B. Maloney Member of Congress Member of Congress Eliot L. Engel Joe Crowley Member of Congress Member of Congress Kathleen M. Rice Member of Congress [1] Robbins, L. New York immigrants facing deportation will get video hearings, lawyers say. June 27, 2018. The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/27/nyregion/new-york-immigrants-deportation-video-hearings.html [2] Id.
07.20.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) joined Rep. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-05), Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and over 60 other members of Congress, doctors, nurses, and community activists, to launch the Congressional Medicare for All Caucus. The new caucus will bring together members committed to achieving a single-payer healthcare system to guarantee universal coverage for everyone in the country. “I was thrilled to join many of my Congressional colleagues and members of the medical community this week to launch the Congressional Medicare for All Caucus, a much needed and timely effort. I have always strongly believed that access to health care is a basic human right, not a privilege for those who can afford it. Thousands of Bronxites and millions of Americans simply cannot afford access to the healthcare they so desperately need. The United States continues to have some of the worst health care outcomes compared to other industrialized nations, and these statistics are only getting worse under the Trump Administration’s efforts to destroy the Affordable Care Act. Doctors, nurses, and the American people agree: it is time to build on the success of Medicare and expand this single-payer system to provide guaranteed access for all Americans. I look forward to working together with other members of the caucus to continue pushing for universal health care coverage. Medicare for All is possible, and we can afford it!” said Congressman Serrano. CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano joins Medicare for All Congressional Caucus as founding member (7/19/2018). CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano stands with Congressional colleagues, doctors, nurses and community activists to launch the Medicare for All Congressional Caucus (7/19/2018). Congressman Serrano has been a sponsor of Medicare for All legislation in every Congress since the 109th Congress (2005-06) Members who have joined the Caucus: Representatives Pramila Jayapal, Keith Ellison, Debbie Dingell, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Joyce Beatty, Don Beyer, Earl Blumenauer, Brendan F. Boyle, Anthony Brown, Michael E. Capuano, Andre Carson, Kathy Castor, Judy Chu, David Cicilline, Katherine M. Clark, Yvette D. Clarke, Wm. Lacy Clay, Steve Cohen, Mike Doyle, Eliot L. Engel, Adriano Espaillat, Dwight Evans, Lois Frankel, Marcia Fudge, John Garamendi, Jimmy Gomez, Vicente Gonzalez, Al Green, Raúl M. Grijalva, Alcee L. Hastings, Brian Higgins, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Jared Huffman, Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Ro Khanna, Brenda Lawrence, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Ted Lieu, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Carolyn B. Maloney, James (Jim) McGovern, Jerry McNerney, Grace Meng, Jerrold Nadler, Grace Napolitano, Richard M. Nolan, Chellie Pingree, Mark Pocan, Jared Polis, Jamie Raskin, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Tim Ryan, Jan Schakowsky, Robert "Bobby” Scott, José E. Serrano, Adam Smith, Darren Soto, Mark Takano, Dina Titus, Paul D. Tonko, Marc A. Veasey, Nydia M. Velázquez, Maxine Waters, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Peter Welch, Frederica Wilson, John Yarmuth.
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano released today the following statement in response to FEMA’s After-Action Report for the 2017 Hurricane season: “The post assessment report released by FEMA confirms what we all knew all along: FEMA was completely unprepared to respond to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico and millions of Puerto Ricans suffered as a result. The report’s list of failings is damning: supply needs were severely underestimated, and not enough was stored on the island prior to the storm; FEMA was not prepared to remedy this by getting supplies quickly to the island after the storm; and there were not enough personnel in place to address the logistical challenges of getting help where it was needed after the hurricane hit. Additionally, disaster preparedness planning was well out of date, thus underestimating what was actually needed to respond to a disaster of this magnitude. All of these challenges were worsened by the fact that the agency wasn’t prepared for many of the challenges that Puerto Rico faced in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria - including the serious transportation, electrical, and health care challenges. “FEMA’s lack of planning and coordination made a bad situation worse, and many Puerto Ricans needlessly suffered as a result. We can’t allow a crisis like this to happen again. I will be working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that FEMA uses the findings of this report to upgrade their capacity to help Puerto Rico and other areas in the aftermath of future natural disasters.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano released today the following statement in response to FEMA’s After-Action Report for the 2017 Hurricane season: “The post assessment report released by FEMA confirms what we all knew all along: FEMA was completely unprepared to respond to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico and millions of Puerto Ricans suffered as a result. The report’s list of failings is damning: supply needs were severely underestimated, and not enough was stored on the island prior to the storm; FEMA was not prepared to remedy this by getting supplies quickly to the island after the storm; and there were not enough personnel in place to address the logistical challenges of getting help where it was needed after the hurricane hit. Additionally, disaster preparedness planning was well out of date, thus underestimating what was actually needed to respond to a disaster of this magnitude. All of these challenges were worsened by the fact that the agency wasn’t prepared for many of the challenges that Puerto Rico faced in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria - including the serious transportation, electrical, and health care challenges. “FEMA’s lack of planning and coordination made a bad situation worse, and many Puerto Ricans needlessly suffered as a result. We can’t allow a crisis like this to happen again. I will be working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that FEMA uses the findings of this report to upgrade their capacity to help Puerto Rico and other areas in the aftermath of future natural disasters.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.03.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY15), a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, today joined efforts calling for the abolishment of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE):“Like the rest of our current immigration system, ICE is broken. For years, ICE has engaged in extremely questionable behavior in local communities in New York and throughout the nation- driving fear into the hearts of hard-working parents and children. It has undermined its own mission and our nation’s basic morals. “The mounting problems at the agency defy belief. ICE has proven unable to safely oversee the dozens of contract private detention centers they send individuals to on a daily basis. They have engaged in indiscriminate targeting of immigrants- undermining the safety of our neighborhoods and splitting up families of long-time residents of this nation. They have aided and abetted in immoral actions like family detention and family separation. And these problems are only growing under the active encouragement of the Trump Administration.“ICE is a fatally flawed organization that operates without the necessary oversight or responsibility to do its job in in a fair and humane manner. It lacks the internal checks and balances to rein in these excesses, and it presenting a vision of America to the rest of the world that isn’t in keeping with our values. It is time to abolish ICE.” ###
06.29.2018	The Bronx – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Commerce Subcommittee, today announced that the Treasury Department Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund) has awarded Spring Bank in the Bronx $233,387 in federal funds as part of its fiscal year (FY) 2017 funding round of the Bank Enterprise Award (BEA) Program. “I am proud to once again announce federal funding for a key community development institution in our borough, Spring Bank. The CDFI program has been crucial to the Bronx’s economic growth, allowing individuals and businesses to avoid financial ruin and prosper over the years," said Congressman Serrano. "This funding will allow them to access resources that mainstream financial institutions won’t provide in our communities. This is why I will continue defending this important program from the Trump Administration’s efforts to gut it, along with many other important social and economic development programs that are crucial for underserved communities." For more than a decade, Congressman Serrano has fought to protect and ensure the CDFI program is allocated adequate levels of funding as a member of the Appropriations. For years, Congressman Serrano served as either Chairman or Ranking Member of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the program. The CDFI Program invests in credit unions, banks, loan funds, and other financial institutions operating in underserved communities that do not have access to affordable financial products and services. It is a vital resource that draws in additional private money and investment to underserved communities. Statistics show that for every dollar of federal funding through the CDFI program, awardees can leverage $13 in private investment. CDFIs help bridge the financial services gap in underserved communities like the Bronx, helping ensure that local businesses and non-profits have the ability to expand and that individuals have access to mainstream financial services. This financial support has helped create and expand some of the community's most important priorities- including affordable housing, health care services, and small businesses. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling in Hawaii v. Trump, which upholds the President’s Muslim ban: “Despite today’s decision, President Trump’s Muslim ban remains as discriminatory, immoral, and dangerous as when it was first announced. The Supreme Court’s dangerous ruling today is another affront on our founding principles, values, and national security. By targeting ethnic and religious minorities, this Administration is completely ignoring our history and tradition of religious freedom, sending the wrong message to the world, and handing Muslim extremists the perfect recruiting tool.” Last year, Congressman Serrano led efforts to investigate the Muslim ban’s implementation in response to reports indicating that individuals stopped by Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) were coerced into signing forms relinquishing their legal permanent resident status and others were pressured into rescinding their applications for admission into our country under a visa. ###
06.22.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Jose E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the Commerce Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, sent a letter earlier this week to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis in strong opposition of the Trump Administration’s decision to allocate lawyers from the Department of Defense to the Department of Justice to serve as temporary U.S. Attorneys. Two weeks ago, the Trump Administration announced that it would be allocating 21 lawyers from the Department of Defense to assist the Department of Justice with the implementation of its new ‘zero tolerance’ policy. In the letter, Congressman Serrano blasted the wasteful spending of money for unnecessary immigration enforcement purposes, estimated to cost at least $3.3 million; the blurring of lines between justice enforcement and the U.S. military; and the Department of Justice's questionable commitment to due process and fairness by assigning lawyers likely to lack experience dealing with immigration related cases. The Trump Administration recently announced that it would be detailing 21 lawyers from the Department of Defense to assist the Department of Justice with the implementation of its new ‘zero tolerance’ policy. In the letter, Congressman Serrano blasted the wasteful spending of money for unnecessary immigration enforcement purposes, estimated to cost at least $3.3 million; the blurring of lines between justice enforcement and the U.S. military; and the Department of Justice’s questionable commitment to due process and fairness by assigning lawyers likely to lack experience dealing with immigration related cases. FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER BELOW: June 15, 2018 Jefferson Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 James N. Mattis Secretary of Defense Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Attorney General Sessions and Secretary Mattis, I write to strongly protest the Justice Department’s decision to utilize lawyers from the Department of Defense as temporary Assistant U.S. Attorneys in order to prosecute border entry cases criminally. As the Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the Department of Justice (DOJ), I believe this to be an extremely inefficient use of federal funds that will undermine the clear distinctions between the work that the Department of Justice does versus that of the Department of Defense. Two weeks ago, both of your agencies approved a plan to temporarily assign 21 lawyers from the Department of Defense (DOD) to assist with the Department of Justice’s new ‘zero tolerance’ policy with regard to undocumented border crossings. This new ‘no tolerance’ policy has significant opportunity and financial costs, and this particular effort is a demonstration of those problems. According to your information, it is expected that this effort will cost the Department of Justice more than $3.3 million to host DOD lawyers for 179 days (or slightly less than 6 months). We do not know the related costs of this policy to the Federal Judiciary and in particular to the Federal Defenders, as they are forced to take on a larger caseload without a similar increase in funding. This flawed proposal raises serious concerns about DOJ’s commitment to due process and fairness. There is no indication that any of the temporarily assigned attorneys have experience prosecuting immigration-related cases. There is little indication that they will receive needed training to understand the various affirmative defenses and claims to asylum that they may encounter- and their legal duties in these circumstances. Additionally, the Appropriations Committee has received no justification that this effort is necessary. Immigration cases are generally better addressed in our immigration court system, which is better equipped and trained to understand the complexities of our immigration laws, rather than through the federal courts. There are also several outstanding questions regarding this effort. I am interested in the answers to the following questions: 1. What types of cases were these 21 lawyers working on prior to this temporary assignment for the Department of Defense? 2. How many cases, on average, did each of these 21 DOD lawyers work on for the Department of Defense over the last six months? Please include the statute or law at issue in each case. 3. How many cases will each attorney work on while on detail to the Department of Justice? 4. What is the current case backlog at the Department of Defense? What is the total number of lawyers working at the Department of Defense’s Office of General Counsel? 5. According to previously provided information, this effort will cost the Department of Justice $3.3 million over the course of the 179-day term for pay, travel, and housing- or $154,782 per lawyer for less than 6 months’ work. What is the average salary of an Assistant US Attorney (AUSA) who would usually prosecute these cases? What is the average cost for transferring an AUSA from another district on this type of temporary assignment? 6. Within the Department of Defense, have these lawyers volunteered for this effort, or have they been assigned without their input? I have yet to hear a convincing argument that criminal prosecution of every single border crossing case is better than the administrative justice system we already have in place. It remains my deeply held concern that by irrationally focusing on the criminal prosecutions of minor violations of immigration law, our federal prosecutors will fail to prosecute dangerous criminals in other, more pressing areas of the law. This appears to be a waste of resources that will potentially leave the Department of Justice with fewer resources to prosecute drug traffickers, white-collar criminals, and those committing gun violence. This proposal does the same at the Department of Defense, where issues pressing for our nation’s national security will remain unfinished while these individuals are transferred to the Department of Justice. I urge you to reconsider this decision. I look forward to your response and to discussing these issues in detail. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON — House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY), Commerce-Justice-Science Subcommittee Ranking Member José E. Serrano (D-NY), Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Subcommittee Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), and Homeland Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) today sent a letter to their Republican counterparts demanding a hearing on the use of federal funds for the Trump administration’s family separation policy. “As you know, the Appropriations Committee has a unique role in providing resources for the Department of Homeland Security, which detains asylum seekers, the Department of Justice, which is executing the Trump-Sessions prosecutions of asylum seekers, and the Department of Health and Human Services, which cares for the minor children who have been separated from their parents,” the lawmakers wrote. “We urge you to immediately schedule a joint hearing to provide oversight on the use of federal funds for the Trump-Sessions policy of prosecuting asylum seekers and the resulting family separations, and to examine the impact on minor children who have been separated from their parents.” “While we have been heartened that several prominent Republicans have criticized the Trump administration’s approach to family separation, it is time for action. Instead of blithely deferring to the Trump administration or issuing empty condemnations, Congress should exercise its Constitutional prerogatives and conduct rigorous oversight of this cruel policy,” the lawmakers continued. “The ongoing separation of families and subsequent detention of minor children is immoral and unacceptable. It is time for Congress to act, beginning with a hearing on these critical issues.” Full text of the letter can be found below: June 19, 2018 The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman Committee on Appropriations The Honorable John Culberson Chairman Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies The Honorable Tom Cole Chairman Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies The Honorable Kevin Yoder Chairman Subcommittee on Homeland Security Dear Chairmen Frelinghuysen, Culberson, Cole, and Yoder: In recent days, we have witnessed heartbreaking images of children separated from their families as a result of the Trump administration’s family separation policy. These images have shocked the conscience of Americans across the political spectrum. It is now obvious that family separation is not required by any federal law or regulation. Instead, the separation of more than 2,300 children from their families is the direct result of President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting all border crossers — including families who may have valid asylum claims and families who have turned themselves in voluntarily. Further, after making statements directing asylum seekers to enter the country through ports of entry, there have been confirmed reports of U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers denying entry to asylum seekers, citing a limitation on processing capacity. While we have been heartened that several prominent Republicans have criticized the Trump administration’s approach to family separation, it is time for action. Instead of blithely deferring to the Trump administration or issuing empty condemnations, Congress should exercise its Constitutional prerogatives and conduct rigorous oversight of this cruel policy. As you know, the Appropriations Committee has a unique role in providing resources for the Department of Homeland Security, which detains asylum seekers, the Department of Justice, which is executing the Trump-Sessions prosecutions of asylum seekers, and the Department of Health and Human Services, which cares for the minor children who have been separated from their parents. We urge you to immediately schedule a joint hearing to provide oversight on the use of federal funds for the Trump-Sessions policy of prosecuting asylum seekers and the resulting family separations, and to examine the impact on minor children who have been separated from their parents. The ongoing separation of families and subsequent detention of minor children is immoral and unacceptable. It is time for Congress to act, beginning with a hearing on these critical issues. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Ranking Member Committee on Appropriations José E. Serrano Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Rosa DeLauro Ranking Member Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Lucille Roybal-Allard Ranking Member Subcommittee on Homeland Security
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Subcommittee, today released the following statement in response to the Commerce Department agreement with ZTE easing the sanctions on the Chinese telecommunications firm. “For years, ZTE sold technology containing U.S. components to Iran and North Korea knowing it was violating American trade restrictions on two adversary countries. Accordingly, the Department of Commerce decided to impose severe penalties for this violation, including a record-high penalty of $1.19 billion and a potential 7-year ban on export privileges if the terms of the final settlement were violated. Just two months ago, the Department of Commerce fully implemented these sanctions after it was found that ZTE had violated the settlement terms, paid bonuses to executives involved in the illegal export of technology, and lied to U.S. investigators about it. Given this history, many Americans were baffled when President Trump suddenly decided to undermine the restrictions on the company. Apparently, the President believes that protecting Chinese companies and jobs is more important than protecting our national security. “This is not a partner we should be doing business with. ZTE not only violated our trade restriction on Iran and North Korea, it also poses serious counterintelligence and espionage risks that have not even been properly addressed. The agreement reached by the Commerce Department will only weaken our policies against North Korea and Iran and our standing in the world. Congress is acting in a bipartisan manner through the appropriations process and elsewhere to prevent these restrictions from being rolled back. As Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee with jurisdiction over funding for the Department of Commerce, I will continue working to stop this effort by the Trump Administration to help China at the expense of our country.” Earlier this week, Congressman Serrano and three other Appropriations Committee members sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross urging the Department to continue maintaining strong sanctions on the company amid news reports that President Trump intended to let the company do business with the United States again. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
06.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) announced nearly $15 million in federal funding for three community health care centers in the South Bronx. Awarded through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration, the funding has been distributed as follows: $6,141,027 for United Health Care Inc.; $6,284,689 for Morris Heights Health Center; and $2,804,674 for Bronx-Lebanon Integrated Services System. “The services provided by health centers are vital in underserved communities like the Bronx. With health care expenses expected to go up in New York, thanks to the Trump Administration’s efforts to destroy the Affordable Care Act, their work will only be more important in coming years.” said Congressman Serrano. “The funding announced today will allow three key centers in the South Bronx to continue offering excellent health care services as they face growing demand. No one should have to worry about not being able to access basic health services simply because it is too expensive. This funding will help countless families access the care they need and maintain the Bronx’s community health.”The Health Center Program provides critical funding for community-based health clinics that provide a full range of integrated care services- from medical and dental care to case management and transportation services- for low-income individuals, regardless of their ability to pay. More than 24 million Americans across the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the territories rely on health centers to access and receive medical treatment. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
05.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Jose E. Serrano (D-NY), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement in response to the findings of a study conducted by researchers from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health published in the New England Journal of Medicine. The study estimates that 4,645 people died in Puerto Rico post Hurricane Maria, thousands more than the official death toll of 64 confirmed by the Trump Administration: “The number reached by Harvard University researchers only confirms what many long suspected - the amount of people who tragically lost their lives after Hurricane Maria’s passage through the island is much higher than the official number that has repeatedly been sanctioned by the Trump Administration. Many of these deaths could have easily been prevented had the Trump Administration chosen to recognize the magnitude of the crisis and taken more forceful action to help the people of Puerto Rico immediately after the hurricane. Instead, it continues to downplay the impact that Hurricane Maria had on the island and its people. Almost a year later, and just days away from a new hurricane season, millions continue to live in horrible conditions and the island remains vulnerable to future natural disasters. This number shows, not only that the federal government needs to do more to help Puerto Rico recover, it needs to help ensure local medical services are adequately prepared to serve the people of Puerto Rico in the event of another catastrophe in the near future. The millions of American citizens who live on the island can’t go through another Hurricane Maria.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
04.20.2018	The Bronx – This week, Congressmen José E. Serrano, Jerrold Nadler, and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott sent a letter to the U.S. Government Accountability Office requesting the agency to evaluate and issue a report on public schools’ compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The three Members are the Ranking Member of the House Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, respectively. According to the ADA, public buildings and spaces are required to be accessible for individuals with disabilities. Under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), students with disabilities have the same right to a public education as their peers. Yet the reconstruction of many facilities and the removal of other barriers to fully accommodate these students in New York City public schools, and likely throughout the rest of the nation, has been subpar over the past 30 years. According to a 2015 report issued by the former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, nearly 83 percent of the City’s public elementary schools are not “fully accessible” for students with disabilities. In the letter, the members called on the GAO to analyze and issue a report on school’s ADA compliance nationwide and what can be done at the federal and local level to ensure these students are able to fully access the school of their choice. “Students with disabilities, from New York City to coastal Virginia and all across the country, are entitled to a ‘free, appropriate public education’ under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). However, localities continue to undermine the law by limiting the number of schools students with disabilities can physically access through negligence and lackluster enforcement of the ADA. That is why we write to request the Government Accountability Office to analyze and issue a report on ADA compliance in our nation’s schools,” the members wrote. The letter asks the GAO to look specifically into the following matters: ADA compliance rate, compliance data available at the local level, plans in place to ensure removal of barriers necessary to provide equal access. Full text of the letter below: April 19, 2018 The Honorable Eugene L. Dodaro Comptroller General of the United States U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW, Room 7100 Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) became law in 1990, representing an enormous step forward in requiring public buildings and spaces to become fully accommodating and accessible for individuals with disabilities. While significant progress has taken place since its passage more than 27 years ago, many Americans continue to face difficulties in physically accessing public spaces. Few have become more glaring than our nation’s education system, which often keep students with disabilities from the school of their choice in their neighborhood, and the proper education they deserve. In 2015, the former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York issued a scathing report on the state of compliance among New York City’s public schools system. The report found that nearly 83 percent of the City’s public elementary schools are not “fully accessible.”[1] This is simply unacceptable and places an undue burden on these students and their families, especially those living in underserved communities of color that continue facing other systemic barriers in most aspects of their lives. While the City has acknowledged poor ADA compliance in its schools, the response in addressing the situation has been underwhelming. If ADA compliance rates are so poor within one of the country’s wealthiest cities, one can only imagine just how dire the situation may be in other states and school districts that are not so fortunate. Students with disabilities, from New York City to coastal Virginia and all across the country, are entitled to a “free, appropriate public education” under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. However, localities continue to undermine the law by limiting the number of schools students with disabilities can physically access through negligence and lackluster enforcement of the ADA. That is why we write to request the Government Accountability Office to analyze and issue a report on ADA compliance in our nation’s schools. Below is a series of questions we would like to see addressed in such report: What is the estimated rate of ADA compliance among the nation’s primary and secondary schools? Do state and local education agencies have adequate data to ensure schools are compliant with the ADA? If not, why not? Under the ADA, public entities are legally obligated to identify all programs that deny equal access to persons with disabilities and create a detailed plan to ensure removal of barriers necessary to provide equal access. What percentage of school districts have such plans in place and of those, how many comply with these plans? How can the federal government work with state and local governments, and state and local education agencies to ensure compliance among schools? How do state and local education agencies ensure physical accessibility of new school building projects through the contracting process? How can Congress and the federal government strengthen enforcement of the ADA to ensure full compliance among the nation’s schools, both through legislation and agency rulemaking? Thank you for your continued commitment to holding our government accountable and for providing a thorough analysis measuring the impact our laws have on the American people. We look forward to working with the Government Accountability Office to move this project forward, so we can better uphold our commitment to students with disabilities and provide them with the education they so deserve. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies House Committee on Appropriations Jerrold Nadler Ranking Member House Committee on the Judiciary Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Ranking Member House Committee on Education and the Workforce ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. [1] https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/file/801161/download
04.19.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and José E. Serrano (D-NY) commented today on the Puerto Rico Oversight Board’s vote to approve its financial plan for the Island: “We are troubled that this plan contains severe austerity measures that will inflict further pain on the people of Puerto Rico who have already suffered tremendously. Beyond the devastating aftermath from Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico had already been enduring a decade-long recession. This plan intends to make the people of Puerto Rico sacrifice more, without real certainty of growth. Moreover, there are no guarantees that these funds will not ultimately flow to bondholders. This plan will only further exacerbate the rapid outmigration of Puerto Rico’s residents. “We have said time and time again that any sustainable solution for Puerto Rico must include permanent, pro-growth economic development measures rather than cuts to essential services, pensions or benefits for the most vulnerable. It is our hope that changes can be made as restructuring negotiations are finalized. We will continue pressing to ensure that the people of Puerto Rico are put first.” ###
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Quigley (IL-05), José E. Serrano (NY-15), and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY-17), who all serve on the House Appropriations Committee, sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions expressing their deep concern with the Justice Department’s decision to terminate two programs that provide vital legal assistance to detained immigrants facing deportation. Over 100 additional House Democrats also signed the letter. Under the guise of a typical audit, DOJ is terminating the Legal Orientation Program (LOP) and the Immigration Court Help Desk program. Previous audits of the LOP program did not require an interruption of operations, and the last audit found that the program saved the government nearly $18 million over one year. In addition, these actions directly contradict the express direction of Congress.“The LOP program provides individuals in detention with in-person briefings on immigration court procedures, as well as basic legal information and resources. Studies have shown that these programs save our immigration courts time and money,” wrote the Members. “Recent efforts at the Department with regard to U.S. immigration courts raise serious concerns about the Department’s commitment to fairness, due process, and constitutional requirements.”In 2016, Reps. Quigley and Serrano announced the inclusion of $1 million in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act signed by President Obama for the creation of information help desks at the nation’s most backlogged immigration courts. This was the first time that dedicated funding has been appropriated for immigration help desks. The Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) faces many obstacles to providing timely immigration hearings while affording due process in an overwhelmed court system, and help desks can assist in these efforts by providing time-sensitive information and legal screenings to pro se respondents on the day of their immigration court hearing. Click here to see the signed letter or see full text below. April 19, 2018 Attorney General Jefferson Sessions U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Sessions, We write to express our strong opposition to the recent announcement that the Department of Justice is terminating the Legal Orientation Program (LOP) and the Immigration Help Desk program (ICH). The termination of these programs would undermine fairness and the right to due process in our immigration court proceedings, all while slowing case processing, and increasing costs for the Executive Office for Immigration Review. Additionally, these actions directly contradict the express direction of Congress. The Legal Orientation Program (LOP) and Immigration Help Desk Program (ICH) provide vital resources to individuals facing proceedings in immigration courts. The LOP program provides individuals in detention with in-person briefings on immigration court procedures as well as basic legal information and resources. Studies have shown that these programs save our immigration courts time and money, and in fact, the Justice Department’s own website states that: “Experience has shown that the LOP has had positive effects on the immigration court process: detained individuals make wiser, more informed, decisions and are more likely to obtain representation; non-profit organizations reach a wider audience of people with minimal resources; and, cases are more likely to be completed faster, resulting in fewer court hearings and less time spent in detention.” Given this body of evidence, we were shocked to hear about the Department’s plans—which were brought to our attention not by the Department, but by concerned advocates. The stated reasoning for the programs’ “suspension” is so the Executive Office for Immigration Review (“EOIR”) can “conduct efficiency reviews which have not taken place in six years.” While we support efforts to engage in regular oversight, that does not justify the termination of these programs during that process. Previous reviews, including the 2012 review, were effectively conducted without interrupting the operation of the LOP program. Lastly, the Department’s announcement that it is terminating these programs runs counter to the very clear direction of Congress. The reports accompanying both the House and Senate Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bills for fiscal year 2018 included clear expectations that the LOP program be continued in fiscal year 2018 at no less than the fiscal year 2017 level. In fact, the House report stated, “The recommendation sustains the current legal orientation program and related assistance, such as the information desk pilot,” while the Senate specified that, “the Committee's recommendation maintains the fiscal year 2017 level of no less than $10,400,000 for LOP.” The language in each of these reports was approved by the fiscal year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act (Public Law 115-141). Recent efforts at the Department with regard to U.S. immigration courts raise serious concerns about the Department’s commitment to fairness, due process, and constitutional requirements. In this case, these efforts also directly contradict the express direction of Congress in House Report 115-231, Senate Report 115-139, and Public Law 115-141 and its accompanying Explanatory Statement. Our expectation is that these programs will be resumed consistent with congressional intent. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
04.12.2018	Thank you, Chairman Culberson, and I would like to join you in welcoming the NASA Acting Administrator, Mr. Robert Lightfoot, to the subcommittee. I was saddened to learn of your impending departure from the agency, and I just wanted to take a moment to thank you for your dedication and service to our nation. NASA is in charge of conducting civilian space activities and science and aeronautics research. I am a strong supporter of NASA and believe that its programs help America maintain itself as the world leader in space exploration and in the scientific arenas that develop those technologies. Not only do NASA’s missions inspire so many people around the world, but they also help us innovate and address challenges that confront our Nation. The President’s budget blueprint for fiscal year 2019 requests $19.9 billion for NASA, which is an $844 million decrease from the 2018 enacted level. While NASA provides funding for a number of science and exploration activities, the budget proposal reduces funding for a number of important areas. I am particularly concerned that although funding is continued for the education activities of NASA’s Science Mission Directorate, this request zeroes out funding for three longstanding programs within NASA’s Office of Education that help inspire the next generation of scientists. I strongly oppose the elimination of these programs. Mr. Chairman, I hope that we can work together in a bipartisan manner to preserve these programs that so greatly benefit the American people, just as we did for FY 2018. I would further like to call attention to President Trump’s inadequate request for Earth Science, which is a cut of $136.8 million below fiscal year 2018. We need to place a high priority on NASA’s Earth Science research, and I look forward to discussing this topic further today. In addition, I am concerned by the intent to eliminate the Wide Field InfraRed Survey Telescope (WFIRST). This project received $150 million in FY 2018 and was ranked as the highest scientific priority space astrophysics mission by the 2010 Decadal Survey. We need to have a serious conversation on this project. I also look forward to hearing from Acting Administrator Lightfoot on NASA’s long-term plans for human space exploration, which will require significant amounts of money for research on advanced communications systems; entry, descent, and landing capabilities; and ways to protect astronaut health during long deep-space missions; among other things. All of these improvements will require massive amounts of money over a long period. Lastly, Mr. Chairman, as you very well know, I am also a strong supporter of the Arecibo Observatory and believe that we must maintain strong support for its mission. NASA’s FY 2019 budget request includes funding for NASA activities at the Observatory, and I would like to hear more about this work. NASA helps drive scientific research and innovation in our Nation. For almost 60 years, our country has stood behind NASA by making investments to explore space and the cosmos, as well as to research our own planet and to develop cutting-edge aeronautics technologies. Thank you once again, Acting Administrator Lightfoot, for joining us today, and I look forward to discussing these important issues with you. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
04.11.2018	Good morning, and thank you, Chairman Culberson. I would also like to join you in welcoming our guest this morning, Admiral Tim Gallaudet, the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and current Acting Undersecretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. I look forward to your testimony before our subcommittee as we discuss NOAA’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget proposal and learn more about the vital work our friends are doing as we speak. I believe NOAA is one of the most underrated agencies under the jurisdiction of this subcommittee. The invaluable work and research that NOAA quietly conducts each year has a profound impact on our national economy and way of life, yet so many Americans do not even realize it. NOAA’s mission is to understand and predict changes to our climate, weather, oceans, and coasts. The data and information it collects is used by businesses, other federal government agencies, and state and local governments to help them make informed decisions that affect consumers and the public at large. NOAA also protects and manages our nation’s oceans and marine resources that make up a large part of the beautiful American landscape. For Fiscal Year 2019, NOAA is requesting just over $4.5 billion, which represents more than a $1.1 billion reduction from the FY 2017 level. Coastal Zone Management Grants, climate and ocean research, National Marine Sanctuaries, environmental literacy programs, fish catch share and stock recovery programs, the National Sea Grant program, and countless others will see drastic cuts, or complete elimination, if this budget request is adopted. Even the National Weather Service operating budget will see a cut of nearly $45 million. It is as though this Administration sees little value in the work conducted by the countless scientists and researchers at NOAA. With the damage and devastation to Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Florida, Texas, Louisiana, and others during the 2017 hurricane season, now is not the time to cut NOAA’s budget by more than a billion dollars. Even NOAA acknowledged that the 2017 Atlantic hurricane season was “record-breaking” and the devastation it caused was “unprecedented.” If that is true, why are we cutting this agency’s budget so drastically? This shortsighted approach to saving money will only result in potentially catastrophic consequences further down the road. I do not say this lightly, but in the long term, we will be paying an even higher price for these cuts in terms of money and lives lost. This makes no sense to me. Our storms are getting stronger. Our oceans are getting warmer and experiencing more pollution. Our climate is changing rapidly, and millions of lives hang in the balance. I believe we should be making stronger investments in NOAA, so we can get a better understanding of these atmospheric changes and address the growing national security and economic challenges we face as a result. Therefore, I cannot support this Administration’s budget request for NOAA as it represents a clear abdication of the agency’s core mission. I am hopeful that my colleagues on this subcommittee can come together and spare this agency and its invaluable work once again. We must look at the larger picture here. If we do not get serious about the threat of climate change and work to mitigate it through research, data collection, and collaboration, we will be putting nearly half of the American population – especially those who live along the Nation’s coastlines – at grave risk. Thank you for joining us this morning, Admiral Gallaudet. I look forward to hearing your testimony about the great work that our scientists and researchers are doing at NOAA. I also look forward to working with my colleagues on this subcommittee to draft a CJS Appropriations bill that we can all be proud of this year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
04.09.2018	Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 86 state-funded victim assistance programs will receive approximately $20.4 million over three years to hire case managers who will streamline and improve services for crime victims and their families. The funding, which is administered by the New York State Office of Victim Services, will allow these programs to hire 110 case managers who will connect individuals with direct assistance to help them recover, including counseling, advocacy and civil legal help, among other services. "New York is committed to providing crime victims the resources they need as they start on their road to recovery," Governor Cuomo said. "These grants will support the addition of new staff at victim assistance programs across the state, help the healing process for crime victims of all ages, and further our efforts to support a stronger, safer New York for all." Funded through the federal Victims of Crime Act and state Criminal Justice Improvement Account, these grants allow victim assistance programs to hire or contract with professionals who can coordinate services for victims and/or their families. The programs provide direct services to help men, women and children, including counseling, crisis intervention and legal assistance. Case managers will provide individuals with a continuous point of contact, through which they can navigate and apply for assistance and obtain other resources. All 223 victim assistance programs funded by the Office of Victim Services were eligible to apply for up to four case managers. The 86 programs that received grants met all the criteria in the request for assistance application. A total of 61 community-based organizations, hospitals and government agencies administer the 86 different victim assistance programs that have received grants. Case managers will be funded for three years with an option for a two-year renewal. A list of grantees by region is available here. Case managers will coordinate and collaborate with the Office of Victim Services' vocational rehabilitation unit, which helps crime victims who have long-term disabilities obtain assistance to improve their lives. In addition, case managers will help connect victims with legal assistance in civil matters, such as housing and immigration cases and Family Court cases involving custody, support and orders of protection. OVS provides a safety net for crime victims and/or their family members who have been victimized through no fault of their own and have no other means of assistance. The agency compensates eligible individuals and family members for medical and counseling expenses, funeral and burial expenses, lost wages and support, and loss or damage of essential personal property, in addition to other assistance. Governor Cuomo's announcement comes as New York joins the nation to mark National Crime Victims' Rights Week by highlighting the services that are available to assist crime victims and reinforce the message that the voice of victims need to be heard throughout the criminal justice process. The Governor proclaimed the week of April 8 - 14 National Crime Victims' Rights Week in New York State. Office of Victim Services Director Elizabeth Cronin said, "The theme of National Crime Victims' Rights Week is Expand the Circle - Reach all Victims. Victim assistance professionals across the state do amazing work every day, helping victims and their families in the wake of traumatic and painful experiences. But we want to help ensure that any victim who needs help receives it. Through these grants, programs will be better able to direct crime victims to the critical resources they need to become survivors." New York is the only state in the nation that has no cap on counseling or medical expenses, which means crime victims and family members can receive help as along as it is necessary. OVS is a payer of last resort, meaning all other sources of assistance, such as medical or automobile insurance and workers' compensation, must be exhausted before the agency can pay a victim or their family members for any out-of-pocket losses related to the crime. Last year, the agency provided roughly $21.3 million in compensation to crime victims and their families. The agency also provided approximately $45.5 million in funding to 223 victims' assistance programs that helped crime victims in all 62 counties throughout the state - all at no cost to taxpayers. Funding for crime victims' compensation and the cost of the agency's day-to-day operations comes entirely from the fines, mandatory surcharges and crime victim assistance fees that certain offenders must pay following conviction in state or federal courts. Those fines and fees also fund nearly all the grants provided to victim assistance programs, which serve approximately 325,000 men, women and children annually. For more information about services offered by the agency, including eligibility guidelines and a list of victim assistance programs that provide direct help, such as counseling and crisis intervention, advocacy and legal assistance, visit www.ovs.ny.gov or call 1-800-247-8035. Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey said, "I am pleased that community-based organizations across New York, including in my district, will receive this robust funding to provide critical support and resources to crime victims and their families. These investments were made possible by Congress raising the funding cap on the federal Victims of Crime Act, providing states with additional money to expand and improve their victim assistance programs. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have played a role in securing this funding, and I am committed to ensuring that victims of crime and their families have continued access to the services and assistance they need to recover and heal." Congressman José E. Serrano said, "We need to do more to not only reduce the incidence of crime in our state, but also to help victims immediately following crime incidents. This critical funding will help first responders, hospitals and government agencies improve their security, counseling, and health care services in New York City and throughout the rest of the state. As a member of the Appropriations committee that helped secure this funding, I'm glad to see the positive impact it is already having on our state." Congressman Jerrold Nadler said, "I applaud the Governor's ongoing commitment to supporting crime victims. This new funding will go a long way to ensuring that more New Yorkers have access to the support and resources they need, particularly case managers to help them navigate their options and to rebuild their lives in the aftermath of a crime. I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor on these critical issues." Congresswoman Grace Meng said, "It is critical that important services be made available to crime victims and their families, and these funds will help improve needed programs that provide counseling, crisis intervention, legal assistance and other crucial resources. I am proud to join the Governor in announcing these federal grants which will help ensure that crime victims continue to receive the assistance they need and deserve." ###
04.06.2018	New York City – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, and Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez led a bi-partisan, bi-cameral letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos urging critical revisions to the proposed process for institutions of higher education (IHE’s) in areas affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Maria and Irma to access disaster relief funding appropriated to the Department. Last week, the U.S. Department of Education issued a notice in the Federal Register requiring IHE’s to complete an overly burdensome application process in order to access millions in critical funding passed by Congress nearly seven weeks ago. According to some estimates, the process could take up to 40 hours to complete. The Department also did not make the forms available in Spanish, the predominant language spoken in Puerto Rico, as it had previously done. In addition, members expressed deep concerns about the pre-application criteria requiring institutions to provide exact funding amounts received and reimbursed in order to determine how to allocate funding. Given the federal government’s slow dispersal of funds in continuing recovery efforts, this would further disadvantage IHE’s in Puerto Rico.Congressman Serrano said: “Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and other areas are still in crisis after Hurricanes Maria and Irma. This Administration should be making it easier for interested parties to access federal assistance, not putting unnecessary obstacles in their way. Massive amounts of paperwork that can take up to 40 hours to complete in an environment where many education institutions and people on the island still don’t have access to electricity and safe drinking water is complete nonsense. Perhaps more baffling is the fact that this amount of requirement is unprecedented and unjustified. These are funds approved by Congress for one specific reason, helping the people of Puerto Rico and other territories in a time of dire need. The Department should immediately revise these policies and, while at it, look into what type of policies it can implement to help institutions access and use these funds as quickly as possible.” Congresswoman Velázquez said: “It is incomprehensible that the Department of Education would be making it harder for assistance to reach the people of Puerto Rico who are still suffering more than six months after Maria. Whether this is intentional or bureaucratic incompetence, it needs to end immediately. Congress intended these funds to be swiftly distributed, not slowed down by mountains of red tape.” “It’s now been 7 months since Hurricanes Irma and Maria hit Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands, and thousands of Americans still don’t have access to the most basic resources,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We should be making it as easy as possible for our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands to access the federal resources they need to fully recover, but this decision by Secretary DeVos is instead going to make it much harder. I urge Secretary DeVos to do the right thing, reverse this decision, and eliminate the red tape that is preventing these islands from getting back on their feet. I was proud to lead this bipartisan letter, and I will always stand with our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.” “We believe that the Department’s proposal to require applicants to fill out immense amounts of paperwork for disaster relief funds is yet another example of the Trump Administration’s failure to prioritize Puerto Rico. Under separate authority provided by Congress under the Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria Education Relief Act of 2017, the Department provided just one-fifth of all reallocated campus-based aid to Puerto Rico despite the disproportionate damage to the territory.[1] The Department has also failed to respond to repeated requests to release the reallocation methodology used to distribute these funds,” the members wrote.House Co-signers (37): *Serrano, *Velázquez, Bishop (GA), Blunt Rochester, Boyle, Brown, Castor, Clark, Crowley, DeLauro, DeSaulnier, Ellison, Espaillat, Gonzalez, González-Colón, Grijalva, Gutiérrez, Hastings, Jayapal, Kaptur, Khanna, Lawson, Lee, Carolyn Maloney, Meng, McGovern, Moore, Nadler, Norcross, Norton, Roybal-Allard, Scott (VA), Shea-Porter, Takano, Torres, Vargas, Wilson (FL) Senate Co-signers (9): *Gillibrand, Warren, Murphy, Sanders, Booker, Blumenthal, Menéndez, Brown, Harris Supported By: American Federation of Teachers (AFT) [1] Congressional analysis of U.S. Department of Education data. Release: DeVos Announces Additional Funds to Support Students at Colleges and Universities Impacted by Hurricanes. March 13, 2018. https://go.usa.gov/xQCM3 FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER:
04.04.2018	The Bronx, NY – On the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King’s assassination, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement in commemoration of Dr. King’s life and work: “Fifty years after the assassination of Martin Luther King, his vision, work, and words remain as relevant and important as ever. “Dr. King’s message and dream was simple. He wanted justice and equality for all Americans – regardless of their race or background. For five decades, sometimes through fits and starts, our country has moved in the direction of this vision. The Civil Rights movement not only recognized African-Americans as full citizens under the law, it cemented the idea that all men are created equal and that every American deserves to live a dignified life. The recognition of these fundamental principles and values have only made our country fairer, better and ultimately stronger. “As the inheritors of his legacy, all of us who believe that a free and fair society is possible and essential we have a duty to defend it and to ensure it lives on – to follow his example, to heed his call for non-violent action, and to stand up for what is right. As he so pointedly said in one of his last speeches, our ‘burden and our privilege’ is to ‘speak for the weak, for the voiceless, for the victims of our nation.’ With many challenges in front of us, our voices are more important than ever. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
03.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, which funds the U.S. Census Bureau released the following statement regarding the Commerce Department’s decision to include a question about citizenship status in the 2020 Census: “The Trump Administration is doing everything it can to undermine the 2020 Census and Hispanics’ participation in it. The inclusion of a citizenship question is unnecessary, unsupported, and a clear attack on immigrant and other minority communities that already live in fear under the Trump Administration. “First, this question is uncalled for because this information is already collected via the American Community Survey Act every year—not only every ten years with the Census—and is completely unnecessary for the enforcement of the Voting Rights Act as the Administration claims. No court in the country has said that the current information collected by the Community Survey is insufficient or inaccurate. When the Department of Justice sent a letter requesting the citizenship question, it did not come from the Civil Rights Division, the department that oversees enforcement of the Voting Rights Act. It came from the Justice Management Division, which oversees administrative and employment issues within DOJ. “Furthermore, no civil rights group, voting rights group, or advocacy group has asked for this change. Clearly, motivations other than the protection and enforcement of the Voting Rights Act were at play in this request, otherwise this request would have come directly from the Civil Rights Division itself. “In addition to being an unfounded decision, perhaps more alarming is the fact that it has not been tested, contemplated, or put forward previously as a potential subject. While we know this reckless decision will undermine the count, raise costs (since fewer people will respond initially- thus requiring more in-person visits), and have a detrimental effect on the distribution of formula funding, we don’t know by how much. “What we do know—and the Trump Administration knows very well—is that the minority and immigrant communities will be less likely to participate in the Census as a result of including this question, thereby driving down their numbers in key localities, limiting access to important funding, and having an enormous impact on the redistricting process. There is already not much trust in the Trump Administration. Its harsh rhetoric and support for unconstitutional immigration law enforcement practices have already forced countless families to live under fear and alarm on a regular basis. Now they are less likely to participate in the Census with the inclusion of this question. This decision will shatter trust in the Census and lead to fears that the information collected will be used against people who fill it out. “That is why I plan to introduce an amendment in the Appropriations Committee this year to prevent funds from being used to include such a question on the 2020 Census or to print the decennial Census with a citizenship question included. The Census needs to remain a nonpartisan instrument to gain an accurate count and understanding of American society every ten years. We cannot allow it to become a mechanism to inflict fear and harm on specific populations solely because it is politically convenient. The stakes are too high for everyone in this country, not just for those who will be directly impacted by this reckless decision. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, released the following statement on the FY2018 omnibus bill released today. Serrano, who was instrumental in shaping the CJS portion of the legislation, successfully fought to increase funding for the U.S. Census Bureau, the elimination of a number of riders that would have undermined gun safety, and an increase in funding for programs to help combat the opioid crisis nationwide. “As Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, I’m proud of the significant increase in funding for a number of key Department of Justice, Department of Commerce and science-related programs we were able to negotiate and include in the final bill. “Since the beginning of this Congress, I have made it a priority to fight for significant funding increases for the Bureau of the Census within the Department of Commerce. I’m proud that the bill includes a significant increase, to $2.8 billion, for the agency. This money will help the Census Bureau address several challenges in preparing for the 2020 Census, although as we saw yesterday, several political pitfalls remain. This is a huge victory for those of us who want to see an accurate and fair count in 2020. A number of programs within the Department of Commerce aimed at promoting economic development will also see a significant increase in funding: $10 million for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program over last year’s level; $25.5 million for the Economic Development Administration (EDA) above last year’s level; and the $5 million increase for the Minority Business Development Agency was maintained. These are all programs that President Trump proposed to eliminate in his fiscal year 2018 budget request. “A program that I created to support the training and graduation of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) students from underrepresented communities, the Educational Partnership Program (EPP), will also receive a $1.1 million increase within NOAA. To continue addressing climate change, we successfully fought off Republican efforts to reduce funding for climate research. “Within the Department of Justice, a number of public safety and opioid treatment programs saw a significant increase in funding. The Comprehensive School Safety Initiative will have access to an additional $25 million in funding above last year’s level and $55 million above what the Trump Administration requested. The COPS Program, another key program for the safety of our neighborhoods, will receive $54 million in additional funding. This will help communities hire more officers and ensure community safety. The bill also includes an increase for efforts to improve the NICS background check system, and for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF). Several gun riders that would have made it easier from criminals to obtain weapons, and harder for law enforcement to track those weapons, were successfully removed from the House version of the bill. To help address the opioid crisis, a total of $300 million in additional funding will be distributed throughout a number of grant programs in the Department of Justice to help access treatment, improve law enforcement training, and other initiatives. “With regards to science priorities, NASA’s budget was increased by $1.1 billion above last year’s level. Funding for National Science Foundation (NSF) research increased by $300 million and funding for the NSF Hispanic Serving Institutions Program increased to a total of $30 million. These increases will help maintain our nation’s leadership in the sciences, and encourage Hispanics to study and enter STEM professions. Lastly, two important civil rights agencies were awarded significant funding increases: the Legal Services Corporation (LSC), a program that Trump proposed to eliminate, will receive $25 million above last year (for a total of $410 million); and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) will receive an increase of $15 million above last year’s level.” “Overall, the CJS portion of the bill is funded at $59.6 billion, an increase of $5.7 billion above the House passed level. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
03.08.2018	Community Disaster Loan Process Has Already been Delayed for More than Four Months Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, a longtime member of the House Appropriations Committee, led a bicameral letter with 57 of his colleagues to Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin urging him to expedite the Community Disaster Loan process so that Puerto Rico has sufficient funds to offer essential services to its residents. According to recent reports, the loan amount offered to Puerto Rico is $2.06 billion instead of the $4.7 billion appropriated by Congress last year. The Treasury Department has also sought to impose stringent repayment terms on the loan. Congressman Serrano and his colleagues in both chambers urged the Secretary to offer the full loan amount and act in good faith. Puerto Rico has already been forced to provide the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA) an emergency loan for $300 million to ensure they can continue delivering already limited electricity services, adding an unnecessary burden on the government and the people of Puerto Rico at a time of deep fiscal distress. Onerous loan terms would only further undermine local recovery efforts and capacity to offer basic services. In addition to Congressman Serrano, the following Members signed the letter: Senators Warren, Blumenthal, Gillibrand, and Menendez, as well as Representatives Soto, Velázquez, Gutiérrez, Crowley, Norton, Espaillat, Meng, Jayapal, Schakowsky, Sean Patrick Maloney, Hastings, Murphy, Brady, Carson, Grijalva, Shea-Porter, Ellison, Sires, Tsongas, Norcross, Hank Johnson, Frederica S. Wilson, Kathleen M. Rice, Kaptur, Wasserman Schultz, Vargas, Torres, Crist, Esty, Pallone, Carolyn B. Maloney, Visclosky, McGovern, Engel, Boyle, Pascrell, Sablan, Neal, Brown, Moore, Moulton, Lewis, McNerney, Danny K. Davis, Larson, Clay, Lynch, DeSaulnier, Watson Coleman, DeLauro, Lee, Cleaver, and Garamendi. “Puerto Rico remains in deep fiscal distress. The Department of the Treasury should—instead of acting like a bank or hedge fund in the quest for profit—offer a helping hand by offering generous terms on the loan in order to incentivize a quick recovery on the island. To this date, more than six months after Hurricanes Irma and Maria struck the island almost 20 percent of the people of Puerto Rico have no power. More than 300,000 people have left the island and many more will do so unless the federal government does more to provide relief. Fully funding a loan at $4.7 billion will help the Puerto Rican government and its 78 municipalities provide basic services for its residents and prevent a mass exodus. Absent such a request, it seems likely that the Puerto Rican government will simply not have the necessary funds to operate at full capacity,” wrote the members. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
03.07.2018	Washinton, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, Representatives Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09) and Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), introduced legislation to provide public housing, foreclosure mitigation, and rental assistance grants through the United States Housing and Urban Development agency (HUD) with supplemental funding for state public housing authorities to ensure Americans have access to affordable housing. The Hardest Hit Housing Act of 2018 will allocate $4 billion a year in supplemental funding to the Public Housing Capital Fund Grant Program for public housing authorities that own or manage more than 10,000 units. It will also supply foreclosure mitigation and assistance grants to the 15 states with the highest foreclosure rates. Additionally, the bill will authorize rental assistance grants to fund 100,000 incremental housing choice vouchers for housing authorities at a rate of 20,000 units per year over five years. Earlier this month, President Trump unveiled a budget proposal that guts federal programs that provide low-income families housing stability by eliminating two block grant programs in their entirety. Trump’s proposal also cuts the Public Housing Capital Fund, a $2 billion annual fund used to renovate or maintain the condition of public housing units. These proposed cuts would be detrimental to the livelihood of many residents of the Bronx who rely on public housing. This bill would not only help Bronxites and fellow New Yorkers, it would be beneficial to beneficiaries of public housing throughout the country. Rep. José E. Serrano, said: “Congress has a responsibility to protect and allocate adequate levels of funding for the government’s housing programs to ensure that everyone, regardless of income, can live in safe, affordable housing. The Hardest Hit Housing Act will protect the public housing programs that our communities desperately need from this Administration’s reckless attempts to gut our governments’ most important social safety net programs. We need to address our nation’s housing crisis, and fight back against Donald Trump’s efforts to undermine these important programs. This legislation is an important step in doing just that.” Rep. Yvette D. Clarke, said: “We’re in the midst of the worst housing crisis in generations. Home prices and rents are hitting new all-time highs, pricing low and middle-income families out of the market. Donald Trump’s 2019 budget proposal includes the same draconian and unpopular cuts to affordable housing programs that failed in Congress last year. The federal government should be doing more, not less to relieve the housing crisis in America. Congress must pass the Hardest Hit Housing Act right away.” Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, said: “Homeownership is the gateway to wealth creation and for many individuals, renting a home is their first step toward saving for ownership. Federal spending on housing programs should be treated as investments because they provide opportunities for wealth creation especially in low and moderate income areas. Our bill is an investment in the future of those aspiring toward the American Dream.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
02.28.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman José E. Serrano joined Reps. David Cicilline (D-R.I.), Ted Deutch (D-Fla.), and more than 160 other House Democrats to introduce legislation to ban assault weapons and take dangerous weapons of war off Americans streets. Congressman Serrano is an original co-sponsor of the bill. “There is no need for a civilian to own a military grade weapon. We cannot allow mass shootings at our schools and recreational public spaces to become the new normal. In the wake of yet another horrific tragedy, Congress has a moral duty to take action. This bill is a step in the right direction, and I hope that our Republican allies on this issue will join us in supporting this common sense bill to keep our communities and our kids safe.” said Congressman Serrano. “In 1994, I was proud to vote in favor of the original assault weapons ban- it made our communities and schools safer. It is long past time to reinstate the ban.” The Assault Weapons Ban of 2018 would prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; and 205 specifically-named and listed firearms. Assault weapons have become the weapon of choice for mass shooters. They were used in the recent attacks on the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida and the Route 91 Harvest music festival in Las Vegas, as well as the mass murders at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. and a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
02.28.2018	The Bronx – This week, Congressman José E. Serrano and New York State Senator José M. Serrano hosted their annual Black History Month Celebration in the Bronx with local community groups, advocates, and local elected officials. Held at Hostos Community College, the event honored five individuals who have been advocates and community leaders in the Bronx and New York City: Marricka Scott-McFadden, Deputy Bronx Borough President; Hon. Latoya Joyner, Assembly Member for the 77th NYS Assembly District; Linda Kemp, Founder of Bringing the Peace and Building the Community; Kathleen Saunders, Community Board 4 Chair. The Honorable Aurelia Greene, Former Bronx Deputy Borough President & NYS Assembly Member (Speaker Pro- Tempore) was also presented with the U.S. Congressional and NYS Senate Life Time Achievement Award this year. “Every year, we have the privilege of honoring some of the many African-American community leaders working to expand access to opportunity and improve quality of life in the Bronx at the annual Serrano Black History Month Celebration. With so many social programs under threat of being cut or eliminated under the Trump Administration, their work is more important than ever. This special event also serves as an opportunity to celebrate African-American heritage and contributions to American culture through special performances and events. We look forward to many more,” said Congressman Serrano and his son New York State Senator José M. Serrano. New York State Senator Jose M. Serrano & Congressman José E. Serrano with Honorees (Left to Right): Honorable Aurelia Greene, Linda Kemp, Assemblywoman Latoya Joyner, & Kathleen Saunders. Congressman José E. Serrano with student performers from East Fordham Academy of the Arts. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
02.15.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement expressing serious concerns of Mayor’s de Blasio’s decision to build one of the four jails that would replace Rikers in the South Bronx: “Criminal justice reform is badly needed in New York and nationally- and I will always support efforts to ensure our justice system is fairer and more equitable. As part of that, I strongly support the effort to close Rikers’, but that process cannot take place at the expense of community input and participation in the siting of such a facility. Far too often, the South Bronx is used to deal with negative problems that other areas of New York City do not want to deal with. Waste transfer stations, sewage treatment plants, industrial/commercial facilities that generate increased truck traffic- all seem to be located in the South Bronx disproportionately when compared to the rest of the City. Once again it appears the South Bronx has been selected to bear an unnecessary burden on behalf of the City. “What is most troubling about this announcement is the City’s decision making process itself in selecting the sites. First and foremost, there has been no input to date from the local communities or consideration of their needs. In the Bronx and elsewhere, the City simply selected a site and made an announcement. The ‘process’ should have started with a site search, open to public feedback. The site selected in the Bronx is one that the community has sought for years to develop- with little engagement or support from the City. Repeatedly, community members were told that the NYPD needed it as a tow lot. Suddenly, without warning or notice, the City plans to develop it into a jail. Even more troubling and concerning, Mother Hale Academy – a public school sits just two short blocks away from where the City plans to build the jail. “It is important to note that the South Bronx is already home to a city jail- the Vernon C. Bain Correctional Center in Hunts Point. The South Bronx is already doing its fair share of housing the City’s prison population, and it is unclear whether this fact was taken into account in the planning process to date. It is also important to note that twelve years ago, the City attempted to build a jail at Oak Point in the South Bronx. Those plans were eventually abandoned in the face of universal opposition from local residents, community groups, and elected officials. “This ‘process’ already seems to be fundamentally flawed. There should be equity and fairness in the jail placement process- and that means looking throughout our borough- not just in the South Bronx; taking into consideration the number of jails already in an area; and at the very least, taking into consideration a community’s needs and concerns in an inclusive manner. I urge the City to reconsider its decision and reopen this process in the Bronx and elsewhere if need be.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
02.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Subcommittee, today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s budget blueprint for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY2019): “The Trump Administration released a budget proposal based on the same misguided proposals and empty promises of the past: to “drain the swamp” by cutting spending on key programs while proposing to primarily increase defense spending to unnecessary levels, and to build a wall along the southern border that won’t fix our broken immigration system at a cost of $25 billion. These damaging ideas- if enacted into law- will hurt America’s competitiveness and its standing in the world. “As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, it is very concerning to see this Administration propose further cuts to the government’s most important economic and social programs, which are crucial to people from the Bronx. The proposal would cut $263 billion from direct spending social safety net programs, primarily centered around a $214 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Last year alone, SNAP helped protect 44 million senior citizens, children and disabled people from hunger and starvation. It would also hurt Social Security by cutting $72 billion from disability programs. For some of these programs, like Medicaid and food stamps, the Administration is proposing new roadblocks on individuals’ ability to qualify for and access them in addition to the proposed budget cuts. Millions would also lose access to health care through the budget’s attempt to dismantle the Affordable Care Act once again and changes to Medicare payment policies. These cuts and policy changes will only make it harder for the average American, particularly the most vulnerable, to get by. For many of them, being able to access these programs and services is a matter of life or death. “President Trump’s proposal for FY2019 also ransacks a number of programs that are key to America’s competitiveness and global standing. The blueprint proposes gradual cuts to non-defense discretionary spending after 2019 ($338 billion by 2028) that would essentially gut key programs for education, innovation, job creation, and the revitalization of local communities. It also fails to invest enough in our infrastructure; the $200 billion infrastructure investment the document highlights would come primarily from the private sector and local governments. In the area of foreign affairs, the Administration is proposing more cuts to the State Department and the elimination of the food aid program, further jeopardizing key diplomatic staff and diplomatic efforts abroad at a time of instability around the world. “As the Ranking Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, it is disheartening to see some of the most crucial programs for economic development, scientific innovation, environmental protection, and civil rights attacked once again. Among the programs proposed for elimination under the Department of Commerce are the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program, the Economic Development Administration program, Coastal Zone Management Grants, the National Sea Grant Program, and the NOAA Educational Partnership Program with Minority Serving Institutions. Among those sharply reduced are the Minority Business Development Agency, the International Trade Administration export assistance, and NOAA Climate Research. DOJ grants are effectively cut by over $347 million, including a cut of 55 percent ($122.5 million) to the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which provides grants to state and local government for hiring law enforcement officers. The Department of Justice’s Community Relations Service and the Legal Services Corporation, which so many people depend on to get legal assistance, is eliminated. Finally, the Trump budget unwisely seeks to turn over the International Space Station to commercial entities after the American people have invested over $100 billion in this program. “The President’s budget guts key government programs for working families, including the very people he claims to champion, after giving the most generous tax cuts to the top one percent under the Republican tax reform approved lastyear. This is just the most recent example of this Administration’s values and whose side it’s really on. Once again Democrats will fight to prevent these draconian cuts from going through and advance proposals that invest in our communities, businesses, and families.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
01.18.2018	Washington, DC –Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Don Beyer (D-VA), and Barbara Lee (D-CA) called for an Department of Homeland Security Inspector General investigation into Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) policies with regard to repeated violations of those agencies’ sensitive locations policies, and a lack of oversight and safeguards to prevent abuse. The Members believe that only an independent investigation can bring about needed change. “We believe that there is a significant lack of oversight and accountability within these agencies in carrying out enforcement actions at sensitive locations,” wrote the Members. “Without significant changes, enforcement actions at sensitive locations will continue to undermine the health and safety of immigrants and their families- regardless of their underlying immigration status.” In October, 84 Members of Congress sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security asking for further information about repeated violations of the sensitive locations policies by ICE and CBP, and asking for further information about alleged abuses of these policies and the mechanisms currently in place to ensure accountability. The Department replied just prior to Christmas (see attached document), and revealed significant gaps in oversight of these guidelines. Neither ICE nor CBP keep statistics on their enforcement actions at sensitive locations, and there is not a clear system for complaints and discipline of employees who violate these memoranda. Additionally, CBP agents, who have been involved in several controversial incidents involving sensitive locations, do not receive any training on their agency’s sensitive locations policy. The full text of the letter is below:
01.12.2018	The Bronx – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded over $1.8 million in Homeless Assistance Continuum of Care grants to various organizations in the Bronx focused on helping homeless people: Banana Kelly Improvement Assoc, Promesa, Inc., Vocational Instruction Project Community Services, and United Bronx Parents/Acacia Network. “Throughout the years, federal HUD funding has been critical in addressing homelessness in the Bronx and beyond. I am proud to announce an additional $1.8 million in funding to organizations that provide housing services to people in need and equips them with the tools and resources to become successful members of society. The funding announced today will go towards the programs that have proven most effective nationwide. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for the federal dollars necessary to address homelessness in New York City and throughout the nation. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
01.11.2018	Washington, DC – US Congressman José E. Serrano, longtime member and former Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee today blasted reports that the Trump Administration will undermine longtime rules regarding the Community Reinvestment Act, which helps prevent financial institutions from discriminating against residents in minority, poor communities through ‘redlining’, and old practice through which banks and other institutions would refuse to lend money in specific neighborhoods, regardless of an individual’s financial status and credit score. He released the following statement: “Redlining is a discriminatory practice that needs to remain in the past. These reports are so troubling because they threaten to revive the decades of government sanctioned discrimination and disinvestment from places like the Bronx. Access to financial services and capital are key to people’s capacity to escape poverty, accumulate wealth, and to promote the economic growth of areas like the Bronx. That is why over the years I quadrupled funding for initiatives like the CDFI Program, which helps expand access to capital and consumer friendly financial services in underserved neighborhoods. The work of CDFI institutions have been life changing for many people, businesses, and families over the years. We should be doing more to expand banking in these neighborhoods, not putting more unfair obstacles on an individual’s capacity to improve their livelihood. Someone’s ability to qualify for a loan shouldn’t be determined by their zip code and race, it should be determined by their financial record and credit score – as it is in every other case. Unfortunately, given the Trump Administration’s efforts to eliminate programs expanding financial access to businesses and individuals residing in areas hurt by decades of discriminatory banking practices, including the effective CDFI program, these reports come as no surprise,” said Congressman Serrano.
01.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for immigrants from El Salvador. Last year, President Trump also terminated the TPS program for Nicaragua and Haiti. “Thousands of families and individuals who are in this country legally will suffer the agony of having to suddenly uproot their life and face an uncertain future with the termination of the TPS program for El Salvador. Many of these families live in New York City and in the Washington, DC area. They are our neighbors, friends and co-workers and an integral parts of our community. Today’s decision not only will only wreak havoc on thousands of families, including innocent children, who are in this country legally. It will also have an impact on the countless businesses run by or sustained by people from El Salvador. “Ending TPS programs for Central American countries will also have an immediate impact on regional stability and ultimately our national security – the revocation of TPS will only worsen ongoing crises and destabilize already fragile countries in the region. The Trump Administration’s approach is cruel and misguided, we should instead be working to pass legislation like the American Promise Act, which would ensure TPS recipients can remain in the country indefinitely while the situation in their native countries improve,” said Congressman Serrano. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
01.04.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, and Congresswoman Grace Meng, a member of the subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Census Bureau and the Department of Justice, today released the following statement in response to reports that the Department of Justice has proposed including a new question in the next Census asking household members’ citizenship status. The members sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Commerce Wilber Ross asking urging him to oppose the proposal and to look into this matter. Read a full text of the letter below. “This is just the latest effort to drive immigrants back into the shadows. The 2020 Census will have immense policy implications for the next decade. An accurate 2020 Census is critical for the fair allocation of our government resources and for the future of our representative democracy. The Justice Department’s proposal to include a question asking individuals’ citizenship status is very troubling given its previous efforts to undermine the count and anti-immigrant policy record. Asking for individuals’ citizenship status, while seemingly menial and harmless, will only discourage immigrant families from filling out the form for fear of being targeted for deportation. As a country, we gain nothing by encouraging immigrants to live in the shadows. Our communities are safer and better functioning when we know who is here and how our population is changing over time. Getting Hispanics and other minorities to participate in the Census is already a challenge as it is. Instead of doing everything in its power to depress the numbers of Hispanics and other minorities living in our country --and ultimately in the electoral process --we should be doing more to ensure everyone living in this country is counted. I urge the Trump Administration to desist from these efforts immediately. For the past several years we have been focusing on securing the necessary level of funding necessary for successful 2020 Census. This is the one area the Trump Administration, the Department of Commerce, and Republicans in Congress should be focusing to guarantee an accurate count,” said Congressman Serrano. “Requesting the addition of an untested question on citizenship to the 2020 census is a dangerous and reckless move by the Justice Department. Adding such a question will likely lower response rates, make the census more expensive, and add further complications to an already underfunded and underprepared Census Bureau. The Census Bureau should heed our concerns and refrain from adding this short-sighted and last minute question to the 2020 census,” said Congresswoman Meng.
12.21.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez (D-NY) released the following statement announcing that they would vote no on the latest round of additional funding for hurricane recovery in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Florida and Texas: “As we said previously when this measure was unveiled, the funding in this bill is woefully insufficient and it has not improved. The Governor of Puerto Rico previously requested $94 billion for recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and this measure provides only $81 billion to be split between Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. That’s not enough and, if history is any guide, we can expect that the bulk of that money will not reach Puerto Rico, but the other disaster-stricken areas. “There are other significant shortcomings in this legislation. It fails to provide needed cost sharing waivers for in numerous areas, including FEMA funding and Economic Development Administration funding. Without such provisions, we are asking an Island that was already facing fiscal insolvency before the Hurricane to pay for recovery efforts it cannot afford. The legislation does nothing to address the Medicaid cliff. “Hurricane Maria visited on Puerto Rico a once-in-a-generation humanitarian crisis. Making the Island whole will take years, not months, and requires a long term commitment by the federal government. This bill fails that test, fails Puerto Rico, and we cannot support it. We will continue pushing for additional aid and a bill that allocates resources commensurate to the severity of the situation in Puerto Rico. Anything less is unacceptable.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement in response to the release of the Republican Disaster Supplemental: “Although I appreciate the majority’s willingness to go well beyond what the Trump Administration requested, it does not go far enough to ensure that Puerto Rico can comprehensively rebuild in a sustainable manner. “By leaving in place numerous local cost-share requirements, the legislation puts an onerous burden on an already cash-strapped government on the island. This will make it difficult to access funds. The bill also does nothing to address the looming Medicaid cliff, which will devastate access to health care in Puerto Rico. Although the bill does make progress on the Administration’s request in a number of areas- like doubling funding for the Economic Development Administration (EDA) from what was requested- the majority left much undone elsewhere. “In addition, the legislation does little for the many states, including New York and Florida, who have opened their arms to welcome displaced individuals and families from Puerto Rico. Previous disaster supplementals have essentially held states harmless for the costs of welcoming displaced individuals and helping them access health care, education, and housing. This legislation only includes funding for one part of that commitment.” “It is also troubling that the legislation attempts to reopen PROMESA and provide the Oversight Board with new powers and responsibilities. This is unnecessary - the Board already has significant powers to help oversee the federal funding the island will receive- it does not need more. “Had Republicans chosen to work with Democrats, we could have produced a supplemental that all of us could be proud of. Instead, we are left with another partisan quagmire that shows the inability of the majority to govern in a responsible manner. The only people who will suffer as a result of this inadequate legislation are those already hurting in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and elsewhere.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
12.18.2017	Washington, DC – Bronx Representatives Serrano, Espaillat, Crowley and Engel today sent a letter to Mayor Bill de Blasio urging him to prioritize LGBTQ community needs as he plans for his second term as Mayor. Among the recommendations, the members emphasized the need to open an LGBT community center in the Bronx – the only borough that doesn’t currently have one. The members also urged Mayor de Blasio to address the issues of homelessness and other housing needs that affect the LGBTQ community and those who are gender non-conforming (TGNC), particularly teenagers; as well as the rise in violence and other civil rights violations against LGBTQ individuals. “[T]he Bronx remains without an LGBTQ Community Center, and continues to be the sole borough in New York City without one. As you may know, community centers play a vital role in enriching the lives of residents and the neighborhoods they call home. Whether providing easy access to quality, safe programs and services or directing families to the appropriate channels to receive the much-needed assistance they are seeking, community centers are a crucial safety net for many. We strongly believe that no one should be forced to travel outside of their neighborhood in order to obtain essential care readily accessible in neighboring communities. For these reasons, we ask that you work to improve LGBTQ services in the Bronx by helping open an LGBTQ community center,” the members wrote. FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER BELOW:
12.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) introduced legislation to address how social media and other forms of electronic communication have helped fuel the rise in hate crimes against certain minority groups around the country. “As a member of Congress who avidly uses Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram to communicate with my constituents, these electronic platforms that have become ingrained in our daily lives cannot be used to support and amplify hateful speech that seeks to demean or harm others,” said Congressman Serrano. “This legislation will help us better understand the role these technologies play in aiding the spread of hate speech and crimes. It will also help us understand what we can do to prevent the First Amendment from being weaponized in order to hurt other Americans because of their race, ethnicity, or national origin.” In 1993, the Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the principal adviser on telecommunications policies and regulations for the federal government, released a report entitled The Role of Telecommunications in Hate Crimes. It examined the role telecommunications of that era played in the rise of hate crimes, and recommended ways the government and private citizens could combat these growing threats. The Stop HATE Act would direct the Departments of Commerce and Justice to update its 1993 report by analyzing all new forms of electronic communications that have been developed since the rise of the Internet in the early 1990s and issue a new report to Congress one year after enactment, and every five years to continue assessing new forms of media. It would also include recommendations, consistent with the First Amendment, to address these threats. The bill is supported by the National Hispanic Media Coalition, Free Press Action Fund, and the Anti-Defamation League. To view the text of the legislation is below:
11.28.2017	Washington, D.C – Today, Puerto Rican Representatives José E. Serrano and Nydia M. Velazquez released the following statement in response to Representative Gutierrez’s announcement that he will retire next years after 25 years in Congress. “Today is a sad day. For more than two decades, Luis has been our friend and colleague. He has been a steadfast champion for Puerto Rico, for the immigrant community, and for his constituents in Chicago. Throughout his career, Luis has been a voice for the voiceless and many times dared to take on fights others wouldn’t. His spirit and dedication will be profoundly missed here in Washington and, personally, the two of us will miss fighting in the trenches alongside him on behalf of the vulnerable. While we are saddened to hear of his retirement, we take solace in the fact that our nation is better off because of his service in the People’s House,” ###
11.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, and Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez, co-chairs of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Task Force on Puerto Rico, today released the following statement in response to reports that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) would submit a disaster supplemental request of $44 billion to help hurricane affected areas, including Puerto Rico: “Once again the Trump Administration has proven it lacks the will to help Puerto Rico in a comprehensive manner. Puerto Rico is facing a serious humanitarian and economic crisis, and now more than ever the American citizens on the island need our help. This supplemental request fails to provide sufficient funding to help Puerto Rico address immediate needs and set itself on the road to recovery. We also understand that it fails to provide a solution to the potentially devastating Medicaid cliff that is currently facing Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Moving forward without significant changes will only hinder the Puerto Rican government’s capacity to address the situation on the ground and will contribute to further suffering on the island. We will work with our colleagues in Congress to increase funds in the supplemental and help ensure Puerto Rico and its 3.4 million American citizens have the necessary aid to face this crisis head on. While we understand that OMB plans further supplemental appropriations requests, we believe that more must be done now,” said the co-chairs of the CHC Task Force on Puerto Rico. ###
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement regarding the announcement today that the National Science Foundation (NSF) plans to withdraw federal support for the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. The observatory is owned by the NSF and operated in collaboration with Universities Space Research Association, SRI International, and the Metropolitan University of Puerto Rico. The independent federal agency announced its plans for the facility this week amidst the financial and humanitarian crisis the island is going through. “For decades, the Arecibo Observatory has been a source of attraction for researchers and science lovers in America and the rest of the world. As the largest radio telescope in our hemisphere, it has been at the forefront of scientific breakthroughs and developments in the United States and performs unique work to this day. The NSF has academic cooperators on the Island that help manage the facilities and the equipment, and it sustained significant damage during Hurricane Maria,” said Congressman Serrano. “This announcement couldn’t come at a worse time for Puerto Rico. It adds insult to the injuries sustained during Hurricane Maria. Scientific research and development are needed now more than ever on the Island to help retain professionals, train students, and motivate investors to look towards Puerto Rico. Reduction in federal support and oversight will likely raise prices and research costs and obstruct scientific advancements at the institution. The NSF must maintain federal support and ownership of the observatory, and continue leading the breadth of scientific activities that takes place there as a demonstration of the nation’s integral commitment to the Island and to scientific research. As the lead Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee and someone who over the years has fought to protect federal funding for the observatory and its activities, I will do everything in my power to prevent this misguided decision from moving forward,” he added. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano condemned House Republicans for passing their devastating tax legislation, which causes serious harm to residents of the Bronx. “This bill is an insult to Bronxites,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “It harms families, students, seniors and children. It reduces access to critical tax credits, like the Child Tax Credit, in a way that will hurt the most vulnerable just so billionaires and corporations can get huge tax breaks. It also explodes our nation’s budget in a way that will threaten Medicare and Medicaid. I stood up for New York families and voted against this inexplicable Republican act of malice and cruelty.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
11.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, and Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez, co-chairs of the newly formed Puerto Rico Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, today released the following statement in support of Governor Rossello’s emergency supplemental appropriations request for post Hurricane Maria recovery efforts: “Almost two months after Hurricane Maria, most of Puerto Rico is still in the dark and too many lack access to potable water. While last month’s disaster supplemental was a start in the recovery effort for Puerto Rico, much more needs to be done to help the island address the ongoing crisis in a comprehensive manner. The Governor’s request outlines the scale of assistance that is needed to help Puerto Rico get back on its feet. We are united in our efforts to help the island, and will be doing everything possible to ensure that Puerto Rico fully recovers.” ###
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to end the Temporary Protected Status program that temporarily gives asylum to and protect immigrants from Nicaragua, and to leave TPS holders from Honduras in limbo. Both countries that have been affected by natural disasters in recent years and economic difficulties. “This decision by the Trump Administration is one more ‘check-the-box’ action in its anti-immigrant agenda. Failing to renew TPS status for Nicaragua paves the way for the deportation of tens of thousands of individuals who are in this country legally, in many cases have lived in the U.S. for many years, have U.S. born children, and for whom going back to their home country is not a realistic option. The decision to delay any action concerning the TPS status of Honduras is also troubling, since it continues to leave Hondurans with TPS status uncertain of their future. “Immigrants with TPS status contribute to our economy and only make our industries and local communities stronger. This is particularly true in the Bronx, where we have a large Honduran community. Today’s decisions will only wreak havoc on immigrant families and industries that are an integral part of our communities. TPS is also a matter of regional stability and national security – the revocation of TPS will only worsen ongoing crises and destabilize already fragile countries in our region. Instead of getting rid of Temporary Protected Status we should immediately consider the American Promise Act, which would allow ensure these individuals can remain in the country and pursue a path to naturalization,” said Congressman Serrano. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
11.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano and Congresswoman Jenniffer González-Colón today introduced the Rebuilding Resilient Energy Systems Act of 2017 that would allow Stafford Act disaster funding to be used to rebuild more resilient and efficient energy systems for major disaster or emergency-designated areas during 2017. This legislation would help states and territories affected by this year’s hurricane season such as Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to rebuild in a way that would save taxpayer money for years to come. “This timely bill will help disaster-affected areas to rebuild a key infrastructure system looking towards the future, rather than being forced to rebuild to the past,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “This legislation is a necessary modernizing tool that will allow states and localities to update critical energy systems and make them more resilient and efficient by providing them with necessary financial and technical assistance for such an endeavor. Puerto Rico has been criticized for having an outdated electrical grid and this is our opportunity to help them establish a better, more efficient replacement that would help the island face future hurricane seasons as well as save taxpayers money.” “The Rebuilding Resilient Energy Systems Act of 2017 is a win-win for everyone, said Congresswoman Jenniffer González-Colón. It helps the states and territories—including Puerto Rico—rebuild their energy systems in a smarter and more efficient manner, thereby preventing total power blackouts the next time a hurricane hits any of these areas, and ends up saving taxpayers’ money. The 3.4 million American citizens residing in Puerto Rico and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle want a better, more efficient energy system in the island. This bill provides us with the opportunity to do the right thing for our fellow Americans. Much has been said about the state of disarray of Puerto Rico’s power infrastructure before hurricanes Irma and Maria impacted the Island, but the fact is that, for the most part, this was a result of the budgetary and funding limitations and inequities imposed upon the territories.” The Stafford Act ensures that Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding for disaster affected areas is able to be used to reconstruct energy systems to its pre-disaster state. The common-sense legislation introduced today fixes this problem by not only allowing the reconstruction of energy systems, but also making them resilient, efficient, and clean. It also directs the Department of Energy's national labs to provide technical assistance to state, local, and private entities as well as to other federal agencies interested in developing plans to improve the reconstruction, resilience, and efficiency of their energy systems following a disaster. Additionally, the bill instructs FEMA to improve coordination with private entities seeking to donate energy storage technologies during a disaster. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
11.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Serrano released the following statement encouraging Bronxites and New Yorkers in general to sign up for health care coverage for 2018 during the Affordable Care Act (ACA) open enrollment period, which will run from November 1 through December 15 in most states (November 1 through January 31 in New York): “Starting today, New Yorkers will have the opportunity to shop for a new insurance plan, renew an existing plan, or in many cases, get coverage for the first time through the ACA New York State health care exchange by visiting nystateofhealth.ny.gov. In New York City, residents can access free help in-person or online through Mayor de Blasio’s GetCoveredNYC initiative by calling 311 or texting CoveredNYC to 877-877. “Having health care coverage gives you the confidence that you will have access to quality care in the event of a medical emergency or unexpected illness, as well as preventive care all year round, without the fear of being denied coverage due to pre-existing conditions. New Yorkers concerned about premium increases must know that last year thousands qualified for financial assistance, including federal tax credits, to help keep their premiums affordable. In most cases, premiums were between $50 to $100 each month. Last year, the New York State health exchange launched the Essential Plan, a new plan that makes coverage even more affordable and accessible for low-income New Yorkers. “This year, it is more important than ever to spread the word and sign up for coverage. The Trump Administration has resorted to undermining the law by trying to limit the number of people who sign up for coverage. We must not let that happen. Those of us who know how important access to affordable health care is must fill the gaps left by this Administration and share this information and/or encourage others to sign up or renew their coverage for 2018. “Thanks to the ACA millions–including many who have never had access to health insurance before – have been able to secure quality health care regardless of their income or medical history. The numbers speak for themselves. The ACA is helping to meet the need for affordable health care in communities like the Bronx and throughout the country. This is why I will keep fighting to protect the ACA and work with my colleagues in Congress to strengthen it to help lower premiums and improve the quality of care for all Americans,” said Congressman Serrano.
10.25.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in response to the announcement made today that the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico will appoint a Chief Transformation Officer (CTO) to oversee the Puerto Rican Electric Power Authority (PREPA): “A month after Hurricane Maria ravaged Puerto Rico and brought down the island’s electrical system, most Puerto Ricans still don’t have power. Clearly, drastic actions with regard to PREPA to restore the power grid on the island are necessary at this point. The steps taken by the Trump Administration to help the island are not encouraging. PREPA’s actions since the Hurricane have not given confidence either that they are taking the most appropriate steps to change that situation. Its officials have admitted this themselves. “Appointing a Chief Transformation Officer (CTO) for a short duration will help ensure that the power restoration process gets back on track, federal funds are being well spent, and that trust is restored with those who PREPA serves. The CTO will be able to work hand-in-hand with the Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Department of Energy. “That said, it is important that any actions by the CTO are fully transparent and that this position is accountable to the public. The CTO should respect and follow Puerto Rico’s laws limiting PREPA’s powers, especially with regard to rate increases, and must honor collective bargaining agreements with the authority’s employees. The Puerto Rican people – including the thousands of agency employees who will be impacted during what is already a difficult time – deserve transparency and accountability throughout this process, regardless of who oversees the agency.” ###
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) was joined by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi; Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus; Rep. José E. Serrano (NY-15); Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18); Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23); Rep. Robin Kelly (IL-02); Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12); Rep. Alma Adams (NC-12); Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26); and Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY-09) for a press conference to raise awareness of domestic violence and remember the life of Washington Heights bride-to-be Gladys Ricart and domestic violence victims and survivors around the nation. “Today, we stand united with the family of Gladys Ricart, survivors and advocates in support of victims of domestic violence and continue to lend our collective voices to stop the abuse that impacts each of our communities,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat. “Freedom from abuse is a basic human right,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “We are all grateful for the leadership of Congressman Espaillat, New York Latinas Against Domestic Violence, Brides Marchers and all the activists fighting for a future free from the scourge of domestic violence. Together, we must honor the life of Gladys Ricart and all victims of abuse with activism, action and courage.” “In New York City alone, the NYPD responds to nearly 300,000 domestic violence incidents each year. It is time to stop the abuse and stand in solidarity with all the victims who oftentimes suffer in silence. I was proud to join Rep. Espaillat and Brides March to raise awareness on an issue that has an impact not only on women but in many cases also their children. As the lead Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Department of Justice, I will continue to fight for VAWA funding to help prevent domestic violence and support survivors,” said Rep. José E. Serrano. “During Domestic Violence Awareness Month, it is imperative that we rededicate ourselves to the unfinished work of ensuring that every individual can live in safety, security, and without fear of domestic violence,” said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee. “Every individual deserves to feel safe and live in homes and communities that are free from violence and abuse,” said Rep. Debbie Dingell. “I thank Congressman Espaillat and the brides for raising awareness throughout this country. The Brides March helps give voice to those who don’t have a voice and create communities without violence.” According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1 in 4 women and 1 in 7 men will experience severe physical violence by an intimate partner in their lifetime, a number that is even greater in minority communities. The purpose of today’s press event was to raise awareness and address initiatives to help support victims of domestic violence in communities around the nation. New York Latinas Against Domestic Violence participated as part of the organization’s annual “Brides March” vigil in honor of murdered Washington Heights, New York bride-to-be Gladys Ricart, a victim of domestic violence who lost her life tragically on her wedding day. View photos from today’s press event. Click here to watch video of today’s press conference at the steps of the U.S. Capitol. # # #
10.23.2017	Amidst continued crisis from the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer, today, urged the White House to immediately appoint an experienced emergency “CEO of Response & Recovery” to coordinate the federal response in Puerto Rico. Schumer said this individual would have a direct line and access to the President, the Governor of Puerto Rico, all Cabinet Secretaries, members of Congress, and local Puerto Rican officials to help coordinate relief efforts and assist Puerto Rico in developing a plan for recovery and rebuilding, and executing that plan. Schumer said that the federal response to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico has been disorganized, slow-footed and mismanaged. Puerto Rico has been completely devastated, and is in the midst of a humanitarian crisis. One month after the hurricane, one million American citizens still do not have access to running water, and millions lack electricity. Schumer, today, said that FEMA alone does not have the ability to manage the disaster and is stretched too thin. “It’s been more than a month since Maria, but 80% of the lights in Puerto Rico are still out, and American citizens are unsure about where their next glass of clean water will come from—this is just unconscionable and demands new action,” said U.S. Senator Charles Schumer. “That is why I am demanding the White House immediately appoint an emergency “CEO of Response and Recovery” for Puerto Rico. This person will have the ability to bring all the federal agencies together, cut red tape on the public and private side, help turn the lights back on, get clean water flowing and help bring about recovery for millions of Americans who have gone too long in some of the worst conditions. It is clear, FEMA alone cannot get the job done. ” Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez (D-NY) said, “It’s tragically clear this Administration was caught flat footed when Maria hit Puerto Rico. Everyone knew a historically catastrophic hurricane was barreling toward an island with vulnerable infrastructure, yet there wasn’t a meaningful plan in place to efficiently deploy federal resources. The result has been a sluggish response, causing additional needless suffering among the people of Puerto Rico. We can’t change what already happened, but the President can change course and put the full force of the federal government to work assisting our fellow American citizens. Appointing a CEO of Response and Recovery will, at last, put one person with authority in charge to manage the response and ensure we are finally getting the people of Puerto Rico the aid they need.” "A month after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico, most of the island is still in the dark, communication is limited, and thousands are still living in shelters. It's time for the Trump Administration to give this crisis the attention it deserves. Immediately after Hurricane Maria, I called for the creation of a White House Task Force to coordinate relief efforts post Hurricane Maria. The appointment of a CEO or "czar" is a similar idea to help streamline coordination efforts and make sure Puerto Rico's needs are met. President Trump should take this as an opportunity to show he does care about what the 3.4 million American citizens in Puerto Rico are going through," said Congressman Serrano. Schumer today said there are several examples of why we need better coordination and management. One, there are too many different chains of command working all on their own. Two, we need better coordination of bringing people to Puerto Rico from the mainland because supplies are not getting to the people who need them, that includes water and food. Schumer said, thirdly, the CEO would coordinate which federal agencies best can get needed supplies to the people of Puerto Rico. FEMA is currently responding to multiple major disasters—from the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey in Texas to the devastating wildfires blazing across California and as a result, Schumer said that their ability to manage the disaster recovery in Puerto Rico is clearly inadequate. For instance, Puerto Rico’s governor submitted a request for federal funding nearly three weeks ago, however, FEMA has yet to provide its stamp of approval on the federal dollars that would allow the Commonwealth to be reimbursed for rebuilding roads and bridges, water control facilities, public utilities, and more. The scale of the destruction and the complexity of the recovery process in Puerto Rico necessitates an experienced, high-level official with his or her sole focus on helping to coordinate and facilitate the emergency response and recovery efforts in Puerto Rico. Schumer said an emergency “CEO of Response & Recovery” to assist Puerto Rico would: Help coordinate emergency response activities among the various federal agencies, from FEMA, to DoD, to the Department of Energy, to the Treasury Department. Work with the Puerto Rican government and local officials to ensure that every municipality in Puerto Rico receives all possible resources, personnel, and support from the federal government. Oversee electric grid restoration, repair, and rebuilding. Help facilitate timely and accurate damage assessments to ensure that Puerto Rico will receive all of the resources it needs in upcoming emergency supplemental appropriations bills. Oversee disaster assistance distribution and federal contractual arrangements to ensure that there is no waste, fraud, or abuse. Assist the Puerto Rican Governor and municipalities in developing long-term plans for recovery and rebuilding in a more resilient and cost effective way. The official death toll in Puerto Rico has risen to 49, with reports of dozens of individuals still missing. Currently, only 73% of Puerto Ricans have access to running water. According to a CNN report, more than a third of individuals in Puerto Rico are without certifiably safe drinking water, amounting to about one million Puerto Ricans suffering without access to clean water. Without sufficient shipments of clean water in Puerto Rico, the likelihood for contraction of cholera and diarrheal diseases will undoubtedly increase, Schumer said. Moreover, 80 percent of the island is still without electricity, meaning some have not had power for 45 days, since Hurricane Irma hit in September. The Army Corps of Engineers has said it needs 2,000 additional workers to help with restoring the power, yet it has only brought in approximately 200 workers. Downed power lines remain on the ground. Currently, only 33 percent of the island’s cell sites are functional, and only 53 percent of cell towers have been fully restored. The lack of power has drastically impacted the ability of hospitals to care for the surplus of patients they have received, and many hospitals are still running on generators. Furthermore, there has been a shortage of medication and other healthcare supplies, leaving many individuals at risk. Many Puerto Ricans with diseases have been unable to receive the specialized treatments that they need. According to reports, 16% of Puerto Ricans live with diabetes, one of the highest rates in all of the United States. Insulin, the hormone taken through an IV to regulate blood sugar levels, needs to be kept at 77 degrees, and temperatures have stayed far above that in the weeks since the storm, even in the evening. Just offshore of Puerto Rico, the USNS Comfort, a vessel equipped with a fully operational hospital, could prove to be instrumental in the road to recovery for many seeking medical attention. Unfortunately, it has been difficult to get patients onto the ship. As of Friday, just 43 of the 250 beds on the USNS Comfort were occupied, despite the ship’s arrival weeks ago. On October 19th, Governor Ricardo Rossello met with President Trump at the White House to discuss the recovery efforts. Rossello said that “the reality is that we still need to do a lot more for the people of Puerto Rico… This is not over -- not over by a longshot.” However, when asked how he would grade the White House’s response to the disaster in Puerto Rico, President Trump said he would give it a “ten.” ###
10.20.2017	The Bronx – This week, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) hosted his 4th Annual African Heritage Celebration in the Bronx with local community groups. The event honored groups and community leaders that work with the African Diaspora in the Bronx. This years’ honorees were: Madina Toure, Abubakar Amadu Ali, Sauti Yetu Center for African Women, Dr. Thomas A. Isekenegbe, Nabilah Iddrisuru, Waheera Mardah. Participating organizations included the Claremont Community Center, Sauti Yetu Center for African Women and Families, the NYC Department of Human Resources Tenant Support Unit, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, African Services Committee, African Communities Together, Planned Parenthood of NYC, Montefiore Medical Center. “It was a pleasure to once again be able to recognize the contributions of these Bronx community leaders at our 4th Annual Celebration of African Heritage celebration. From educators, to advocates and even entrepreneurs, these individuals and organizations play a crucial role in the African Diaspora community in our borough and beyond. As a quickly growing community in the Bronx, I’m happy to boast that their work helps make the Bronx and our city richer and stronger,” said Congressman Serrano. Congressman Serrano addresses attendees at the 4th Annual African Heritage Celebration. (10/19/2017) Congressman Serrano (center) stands with honorees at the 4th Annual African Heritage celebration honorees. (10/19/2017) Congressman Serrano with Bronx Community College President Dr. Thomas A. Isekenegbe. (10/19/2017) ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) sent a letter along with Congresswomen Nydia M. Velázquez (NY), Stacey E. Plaskett (VI), Jenniffer González-Colón (PR), and 52 members of the U.S. House of Representatives urging U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos to do more to help federal student loan borrowers in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands that have been affected by Hurricanes Maria and Irma. Both territories were decimated after the two storms and continue to experience widespread power outages and lack of communication capabilities that prevent borrowers from having their loans placed in forbearance during this difficult time. “The situation in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands is so dire that most of the two territories remain without power and unable to communicate. That is why it is so difficult for student borrowers to have their loans placed in forbearance, if they know about this benefit to begin with,” said Congressman Serrano. “The Department of Education must live up to its obligations to provide borrowers with as much assistance as possible as they rebuild their lives and communities. While this may seem small, it will give our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands the peace of mind to focus on greater priorities instead of paying student loans until they are back on their feet once again.” “We need to be employing every tool in the federal toolbox to assist residents of Puerto Rico and help them recover from Maria. Ensuring recent graduates, teachers and students can secure forbearance on their student loans would be one important step in helping alleviate the hardship facing these U.S. citizens,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). "After being hit by two Category Five hurricanes the residents of the Virgin Islands with student loan debt are carrying a serious financial and emotional burden. The pressure of making big monthly loan payments is taking its toll in terms of stress, housing affordability and quality of life. The Federal Government, specifically the Department of Education, must serve a critical and ongoing role in supporting the people of the Virgin Islands with student loans as the government continues to respond to, recover from, and persevere through the destruction caused by Hurricane Irma and Maria,” said Congresswoman Stacey E. Plaskett. “Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are struggling to recover from both Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Almost 90 percent of Puerto Rico remains without power and there is no power in St. John and very limited power on St. Thomas and St. Croix. Many U.S. citizens in both territories are without shelter and communication. Hurricane survivors are doing their best to get their life back on track and restore normalcy to their everyday life, including student borrowers. However, most are not in a position to communicate with their lenders or access guidance from the Department of Education. Therefore, it is imperative that the Department of Education use all its resources and authority to assist student borrowers during this difficult time, including placing their loans in forbearance. Protecting the fiscal health of student borrowers is critical to the economic recovery of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands,” said Resident Commissioner Jennifer Gonzalez. With hundreds of thousands of federal student loan borrowers in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the letter calls on Secretary DeVos to ensure all servicers are providing benefit information in both English and Spanish, and seek Congressional authority in the upcoming emergency supplemental to automatically place all borrowers affected by Hurricanes Maria and Irma into interest-free forbearance for six months, or until both territories are no longer declared disaster zones. Servicers have been working to provide information via email and by phone, but as both islands continue to experience widespread power outages, and cell and landline phone service is still nearly non-existent, these borrowers are not able to access these benefits quickly or receive the necessary information. Automatic enrollment in interest-free forbearance will ensure all borrowers in the affected areas are not penalized with interest as they continue with recovery efforts. Full text of the letter: October 16, 2017 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Ave, SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands have recently experienced the worst natural disasters to hit the islands in almost a century. Shortly after these storms made landfall, the devastation has been so widespread, leaving most of the islands’ residents without power, potable water, food, transportation, or the ability to communicate reliably with loved ones. The schools in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands were not spared from damage. Some schools are still inaccessible and others are still serving the over 9,100 refugees still living in shelters. While other federal agencies continue to grapple with response efforts in order to save lives, restore power, and rebuild, the U.S. Department of Education must not forget its moral obligation to grant relief to the hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans and Virgin Islanders that currently hold a federal student loan.[1] To date, the Department has made little to no effort to provide any administrative reprieve to the islands’ large population facing student loan repayment notices as they cope with the loss of loved ones, the destruction of their homes, work layoffs and furloughs. The U.S. Department of Education released guidance on its website urging borrowers in the affected areas to call their student loan servicers to halt student loan payments temporarily- albeit, while interest continue to accrue.[2] To ensure borrowers are not accruing interest while in forbearance, we urge the Department to do more. Under current regulation, subsidized loan borrowers who have deferred their loans due to economic hardship are not required to make payments of loan principal and interest does not accrue. On its website, the Department should urge borrowers to submit an economic hardship request. Additionally, the Secretary should send guidance to loan servicers advising them to tell all borrowers living in affected areas of this option. Borrowers with unsubsidized loans can also benefit from an interest-free option. Under the Revised Pay As You Earn (REPAYE) repayment plan, the Department already provides an interest subsidy on unsubsidized loans. Under this benefit, up to half of the interest that accrues on unsubsidized loans during periods of negative amortization may be subsidized. It is possible that many borrowers do not know of this benefit and thus, may not request to switch plans. We urge you to notify borrowers of this benefit in REPAYE. Additionally, we urge the Department to provide borrowers with any information in English and Spanish and require the servicers to have Spanish-speaking representatives available to serve these borrowers. The lack of electricity and internet capabilities post-storm will significantly delay the take-up of these benefits. Given the inability of American citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to communicate with their servicers, the Department of Education should include in its request authority to automatically enroll all borrowers affected by Hurricanes Maria and Irma into forbearance. Moreover, while borrowers are in forbearance, interest should not be accruing. An interest-free mandatory administrative forbearance is the best way to ensure borrowers are not adversely affected during this difficult time. The future of the people and economy in these U.S. territories depend on our complete and unequivocal support. We urge the Department of Education to do more to protect student loan borrowers as they continue to piece together their lives in the wake of devastation resulting from Hurricanes Maria and Irma. We thank you for your immediate response to this crisis and stand ready to help in any way that we can. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Stacey E. Plaskett Member of Congress Jenniffer González-Colón Member of Congress John Conyers, Jr. Member of Congress Adriano Espaillat Member of Congress Brian Higgins Member of Congress John Garamendi Member of Congress Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. Member of Congress Stephanie Murphy Member of Congress Alan S. Lowenthal Member of Congress Carol Shea-Porter Member of Congress André Carson Member of Congress Frank Pallone, Jr. Member of Congress Raúl M. Grijalva Member of Congress Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Richard E. Neal Member of Congress Kathleen M. Rice Member of Congress Joyce Beatty Member of Congress Jerrold Nadler Member of Congress Doris Matsui Member of Congress Yvette D. Clarke Member of Congress Joseph Crowley Member of Congress Eleanor Holmes Norton Member of Congress Grace Meng Member of Congress Judy Chu Member of Congress Hakeem S. Jeffries Member of Congress Darren Soto Member of Congress Ben Ray Luján Member of Congress Pramila Jayapal Member of Congress Luis V. Gutiérrez Member of Congress Frederica S. Wilson Member of Congress Lucille Roybal-Allard Member of Congress Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Ro Khanna Member of Congress Joaquin Castro Member of Congress John B. Larson Member of Congress John Lewis Member of Congress Karen Bass Member of Congress Kathy Castor Member of Congress Danny K. Davis Member of Congress Colleen Hanabusa Member of Congress Chellie Pingree Member of Congress Norma J. Torres Member of Congress Lisa Blunt Rochester Member of Congress Susan A. Davis Member of Congress Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan Member of Congress Salud Carbajal Member of Congress Barbara Lee Member of Congress Brendan F. Boyle Member of Congress Donald M. Payne, Jr. Member of Congress Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Member of Congress Nanette Diaz Barragán Member of Congress Al Lawson Member of Congress Mark DeSaulnier Member of Congress ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. [1] Federal Student Loan Portfolio, Federal Student Aid, U.S. Department of Education, October 4, 2017. https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/about/data-center/student/portfolio. [2] Natural Disasters: Information for Affected Individuals, Federal Student Aid, U.S. Department of Education, October 4, 2017. https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/about/announcements/disaster#harvey.
10.18.2017	The Bronx – This week, Congressman José E. Serrano hosted NASA Astronaut and Navy Captain Lee Morin for “Ask An Astronaut” at Bronx Community College and the Bronx Compass High School. The event exposed students to NASA’s mission and work and gave them the opportunity to learn about the many educational and learning opportunities it offers Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) students. Captain Morin has flown on STS-110 in 2002 and has logged more than 259 hours in space, including over 14 spacewalk hours. He was trained as a doctor at both Bronx Municipal Hospital Center and Montefiore Medical Center. “Captain Lee Morin is a Bronx success story and we were honored to host him this week at Bronx Community College and the Bronx Compass High School to share his experience with young students about to embark to college and considering career options. Students were thrilled to learn more about his journey and I am sure that this event inspired many to pursue a STEM degree. Our youth needs to be constantly exposed to people like Lee Morin and the endless opportunities that are out there so that they know that sky is the limit and feel encouraged to pursue their dreams,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. Congressman José E. Serrano and NASA Astronaut Lee Morin stand with a group of Bronx students at Bronx Community College (10/17/2017).
10.12.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s latest tweets on PR where he blamed Puerto Rico for the crisis and threatened to pull aid from Puerto Rico: “Once again the President has shown he does not understand or care about the magnitude of the crisis that Puerto Rico faces. As an American territory, the federal government has a responsibility to help the island and its American citizens address this humanitarian crisis head on and allocate the required resources as long as necessary. “President Trump and his administration have failed to rise to the occasion and has hit a new low with what can only be interpreted as threats to pull out the little aid that Puerto Rico has received so far. This President’s blatant disregard for the 3.4 million American citizens who live in Puerto Rico is inexcusable and a disgrace to our country.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.11.2017	“This is a first step in addressing the needs of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The funding provides short term assistance to the government of Puerto Rico and the federal government, allowing them to continue their relief and recovery efforts. “Much more needs to be done, however, to comprehensively address the many housing, health care, environmental, education, and other challenges Puerto Rico is facing in the wake of Hurricane Maria. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Committee and in Congress to ensure that Puerto Rico receives the funding it needs to fully recover. “It is important to note that while this bill will provide FEMA with the funds to do more, there also needs to be a willingness and commitment from the Trump Administration to address the serious shortcomings of the current relief effort. I have yet to see that commitment.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.11.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Don Beyer (D-VA), and Barbara Lee (D-CA) led a letter to the Trump Administration’s Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine C. Duke – to express their concerns over reports of repeated violations by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials of existing policies regarding enforcement at “sensitive locations” (i.e. churches, hospitals, and schools, among others). The letter was signed by a total of 84 Democratic Members of Congress. The letter points out the case of Irma Francisca Quiñones Alamillo and Oscar Enrique Sánchez Islas, who were recently targeted, questioned, and taken away by ICE agents while waiting for their infant baby to receive emergency surgery is an example of the type of alarming enforcement actions that are undermining the health, safety, and welfare of immigrants. Both ICE and CBP have policies in places limiting their enforcement activities at like hospitals, schools, and churches, but since January, have appeared to violate them in numerous instances. In the letter, the members urge the Department of Homeland Security and ICE to enforce their own policies and to provide information on the training ICE and CBP agents receive about these policies, the mechanisms to report violations of these memos, and the consequences for these violations. “ICE and CBP should not target vulnerable immigrant families at sensitive locations such as hospitals and schools. This latest report shows that ICE and CBP enforcement actions are endangering lives and undermining the health, safety, and welfare of immigrants. Clearly, ICE agents feel empowered by their superiors and the Trump Administration to target immigrants even in what have been stipulated as off-limits locations. The Department of Homeland Security needs to take action at the highest level to stop this behavior, and to ensure accountability when it does occur,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “We believe that ICE agents should follow the rules and regulations that have been issued by the leadership of the agency,” the lawmakers wrote. “While ICE agents have a job to do, agents must perform their job in a manner that protects the health, safety, and welfare of those involved, regardless of immigration status. Undermining the ability of individuals to travel to a hospital to seek emergency care for themselves or their family members violates not just the policy memorandum, but the basic values that justify these limitations. With these increasing reports of ICE activities at sensitive locations, we are seriously concerned that enforcement actions like the one mentioned above will decrease the safety and health of citizens and non-citizens in our nation. ICE enforcement efforts at sensitive locations have a chilling effect on individuals’ ability to seek basic necessities like health services, schooling, and religious worship. Absent an unpublicized change in policy, we also believe that the above case raises serious questions about the Department’s willingness to enforce its internal policies.” October 10, 2017 The Honorable Elaine C. Duke Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Acting Secretary Duke, We write to express our deep concerns over ongoing reports of violations of current Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) policies regarding enforcement actions at sensitive locations. We request that the Department clarify several important issues in order help the public understand the Department’s continuing commitment to these policies. We believe much more must be done by the agency to avoid unnecessary panic and concern among immigrants to this country- both documented and undocumented. As you know, in 2011, the then-Director of ICE issued a policy memo limiting enforcement actions at sensitive locations.[1] A nearly identical memo was also issued by the then-Deputy Commissioner of CBP.[2] In both cases, the non-exclusive list of sensitive locations includes churches, hospitals, and schools, among others. The memos also include a number of actions that constitute enforcement, including: arrests, interviews, searches, and surveillance.[3] Although a new Administration was sworn-in in January, your department reaffirmed the ongoing applicability of these memorandum in February.[4] Unfortunately, since January, many of us have heard of instances where this policy is not being followed. In particular, we are troubled by the recent case of Irma Francisca Quiñones Alamillo and Oscar Enrique Sánchez Islas. While at a hospital with their two month old child, Irma and Oscar were questioned by CBP agents, and later taken away for processing while their infant (a United States citizen) was awaiting emergency surgery. These actions delayed urgent medical care, as the doctors did not want to operate without the parents present, and caused significant mental anguish to Irma and Oscar. There was no justification for these actions, which are a clear and egregious violation of the policy memos. Both CBP and ICE agents should follow the rules and regulations that have been issued by the leadership of the agency. While these employees have a job to do, agents must perform their responsibilities in a manner that protects the health, safety, and welfare of those involved, regardless of immigration status. Undermining the ability of individuals to travel to a hospital to seek emergency care for themselves or their family members violates not just the policy memorandum, but the basic values that justify these limitations. With these increasing reports of enforcement activities at sensitive locations, we are seriously concerned that enforcement actions like the one mentioned above will decrease the safety and health of citizens and non-citizens in our nation. ICE and CBP enforcement efforts at sensitive locations have a chilling effect on individuals’ ability to seek basic necessities like health services, schooling, and religious worship. Absent an unpublicized change in policy, the above case raises serious questions about the Department’s willingness to enforce its internal policies. We request that the Department provide us with additional information about the effectiveness of the current mechanisms in place to protect individuals at sensitive locations. Towards that end, we would like answers to the following questions: What mechanism currently exists to report violations of CBP and ICE’s sensitive locations policy memos? Who investigates these violations? Does the Department keep statistics on complaints involving sensitive locations? Does the Department keep statistics on enforcement actions at sensitive locations? Please provide those statistics if they exist. What training do ICE and CBP employees receive regarding appropriate practices at sensitive locations? What consequences occur if ICE and CBP agents are found to have violated this, or any other, internal ICE policy? In the case of Irma Francisca Quiñones Alamillo and Oscar Enrique Sánchez Islas, did CBP agents act in accordance with the sensitive locations memo? ICE and CBP should continue to follow their current policies with regard to sensitive locations, and should do more to ensure that their agents are aware of these policies, their justification, and the consequences for their violation. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. [1] Memorandum on Enforcement Actions at or Focused on Sensitive Locations, Office of the Director, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (October 24, 2011) available at https://www.ice.gov/doclib/ero-outreach/pdf/10029.2-policy.pdf [2]Memorandum on U.S. Customs and Border Protection Actions at or Near Certain Community Locations, Deputy Commissioner, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (January 18, 2013) available at https://foiarr.cbp.gov/streamingWord.asp?i=1251. [3] U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Memo at 1. [4] Q&A: DHS Implementation of the Executive Order on Border Security and Immigration Enforcement, Office of the Press Secretary, Department of Homeland Security (February 21, 2017), Question 26, available at dhs.gov/news/2017/02/21/qa-dhs-implementation-executive-order-border-security-and-immigration-enforcement.
10.06.2017	The Bronx – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Commerce Subcommittee, today announced that the Treasury Department Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund) has awarded Spring Community Organization, a Bronx community development institution, a total of $930,405 in federal funds as part of its fiscal year (FY) 2017 round of grants. “I am proud to announce that Spring Community Organization in the Bronx has been awarded nearly $1 million in additional funding in FY 2017, part of which they are receiving once again in recognition of their fine work. These resources will allow them to continue serving and expand their financing activities for individuals, small businesses, and other organizations in the Bronx," said Congressman Serrano. "Investing in our entrepreneurs and other local organizations allows them to prosper and to spur local economic growth. This is why the CDFI Fund is crucial for places like the Bronx.” The CDFI Program invests in credit unions, banks, loan funds, and other financial institutions operating in underserved communities that do not have access to affordable financial products and services. It is a vital resource that draws in additional private money and investment to underserved communities. Statistics show that for every dollar of federal funding through the CDFI program, awardees can leverage $13 in private investment. CDFIs help bridge the financial services gap in underserved communities like the Bronx, helping ensure that local businesses and non-profits have the ability to expand and that individuals have access to mainstream financial services. This financial support has helped create and expand some of the community's most important priorities- including affordable housing, health care services, and small businesses. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.06.2017	Washington, DC – In response to news reports that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) removed from its website key data on Puerto Rico’s access to potable water and electricity post Hurricane Maria, Congressman Jose E. Serrano sent a letter today to the agency’s Administration to express his outrage on behalf of Puerto Rico and ask for clarification on the sudden removal of this information: “[T]hese actions give the appearance that the agency is attempting to ‘spin’ information in a way that helps the White House, rather than shedding light on serious concerns about the pace of relief and recovery. It removes focus from the essential jobs that your many employees are performing, and instead focuses on unnecessary process issues. It is important that you explain to the American people why these changes occurred. Additionally, we ask that you clarify for us whether the decision to remove this information came from within FEMA, or whether anyone employed at or connected with the White House requested that these statistics be taken down,” wrote Congressman Serrano in his letter. October 6, 2017 The Honorable William B. ‘Brock’ Long Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street SW Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Long, We write to express outrage over the decision to remove key metrics from your website regarding the progress of relief and recovery in Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. In particular, we are troubled that information was removed regarding access to drinking water and electricity. The removal of these statistics raises serious concerns about transparency and accountability at FEMA, its partner agencies, and the Administration as a whole. This information is critical in assessing progress and understanding needs on the island. While Congress is still receiving this data, it should be available to the public at large- in particular to those individuals who have family on the island. That way, they can make decisions about what assistance to send, or whether to help evacuate their families to the 50 states. Unfortunately, these actions give the appearance that the agency is attempting to ‘spin’ information in a way that helps the White House, rather than shedding light on serious concerns about the pace of relief and recovery. It removes focus from the essential jobs that your many employees are performing, and instead focuses on unnecessary process issues. It is important that you explain to the American people why these changes occurred. Additionally, we ask that you clarify for us whether the decision to remove this information came from within FEMA, or whether anyone employed at or connected with the White House requested that these statistics be taken down. We urge you to immediately restore all information- including information on clean water access and electrical access- that was available prior to October 5, 2017. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.04.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Jose E. Serrano, a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, led a letter with 8 of his colleagues in support of a comprehensive relief and recovery effort by the federal government to help Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, and Florida. The letter includes a number of important programs that must be funded in both the near and long term. "The scale of devastation in Puerto Rico requires a comprehensive response that we have not seen to date," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "The President is sending another supplemental request to Congress today- but just asking for funding for FEMA and flood insurance is not enough. Much more must be done in the near and long-term. This letter lays out the major Departments, agencies, and programs used to help parts of the United States recover from previous disasters, and identifies areas that may need special support beyond what has previously been contemplated." “The residents of Puerto Rico are American citizens and, as they move from disaster response to recovery, they deserve every appropriate available resource. Given the severity of this catastrophe, the Island is going to have significant short and long term needs. With this letter, we are laying the groundwork for Congress to pass sufficient assistance to help Puerto Rico rebuild, better and stronger,” said Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez. The Hurricane Sandy disaster supplemental included some $50.5 billion in funding for efforts at 13 different cabinet level departments and agencies as well as 5 independent agencies through 69 different accounts. Given the scale of the disaster in the Puerto Rico, Florida, Texas, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the total amount of damage is likely to be significantly greater than in Sandy. "As a longtime member of the Appropriations Committee, I have supported our efforts to provide large-scale assistance in response to previous disasters," said Serrano. "We need to match that level of effort- and if the President isn't willing to commit to that proposition, then Congress will need to act independently. This letter provides a roadmap for that work." The text of the letter is below: October 4, 2017 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director, Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney, As Members of Congress with a deep interest in and concern over Puerto Rico, we write to urge you to include robust, comprehensive funding in the upcoming emergency disaster supplemental. The devastation in Puerto Rico, Texas, Florida, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and elsewhere requires significant federal assistance in a number of areas to help these areas rebuild in the aftermath of Hurricanes Maria, Harvey, and Irma. In the short term, it is necessary for Congress and the Administration to show a serious commitment to helping the American citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands receive the relief they desperately need. While money to the Federal Emergency Management Administration is crucial in that regard, we believe that a more comprehensive and far reaching effort is necessary in both this supplemental and in the future. Towards that end we support the inclusion of the following items, which will provide immediate assistance to the people and governments of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands: 1. Federal Emergency Management Agency- Disaster Relief Fund (Department of Homeland Security) - FEMA is the front line response agency for immediate disaster response. Our understanding is that they will soon exhaust the money currently allocated, and significant additional assistance will be necessary for the Disaster Relief Fund. 2. Community Development Block Grant (HUD) - Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Disaster Relief program is a key tool in helping develop local responses to needs on the ground after a disaster. After both Hurricanes Katrina and Sandy, CDBG funding was used to help purchase real estate, repair public facilities, remove debris, rehabilitate and construct, enhance economic development activities, remove debris, assist with relocation, and perform other key functions that helped restore damaged locations. We believe that this funding should match the level of funding provided to FEMA in any upcoming supplemental. 3. Community Disaster Loan Program- This program provides assistance to localities who have lost significant revenue as a result of a disaster, and will need assistance to operate basic municipal services. Significant funding will be needed to allow the territorial government, as well as localities, to restore their basic governmental functions. Beyond these immediate concerns, we believe that there are a diverse set of needs that should be addressed as the recovery phase of this response occurs. All of the following Departments, agencies, and programs were funded in previous disaster relief efforts- like the responses to Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Sandy. As such, we request that funding be included in this, or in a future, emergency disaster supplemental for the following: 4. Army Corps of Engineers- The Army Corps of Engineers plays a key role in lowering future risk, performing environmental restoration, repairing damaged coastlines, and preventing flooding. Given the large scale flooding that hit Texas, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Florida, there is a significant need to examine and repair the damage to waterways, beaches, ports, channels, and dams. In addition, the Corps has previously performed long-term analyses to ensure that future-proofing problems are addressed in the repair process. 5. Federal Transit Administration (Department of Transportation) - The Federal Transit Administration played a key role in the recovery from Hurricane Sandy. We believe that a significant investment is warranted here in order to repair transit systems, facilities, and units in Houston, Miami, and San Juan. 6. Port Restoration and Repair Assistance- There is currently no ability for states and localities to use disaster monies specifically allocated for port repair. We believe that given the scope of damage to ports in Florida, Texas, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, such assistance is absolutely necessary in order to promote the restoration of commerce and facilitate the delivery of aid and assistance. 7. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) - The FAA has received funding in past emergency supplemental appropriations to facilitate the repair and improvement of hurricane-damaged airport and air traffic control infrastructure. Given the damage to airports in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, such funding will be necessary to help ensure the full recovery of these locations. 8. Federal Highway Administration (FHA) Emergency Relief Program- this program assists with the repair and reconstruction of federal-aid highway systems. Given the amount of flooding in Texas, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Florida, funding for this program will be necessary to help repair roads and bridges on these highway systems. 9. Small Business Administration Disaster Loans (SBA) - SBA Disaster Loans are a key part of any recovery effort, and play an important role in providing low-interest loans to businesses, homeowners, and individuals in the wake of a disaster. Further assistance will be needed in this area to promote the recovery. 10. Centers for Disease Control (Department of Health and Human Services) - It is vital that funding be appropriated to the Centers for Disease Control to respond to health emergencies in the wake of Hurricanes Maria, Irma, and Harvey. Given the damage to the much of the drinking water systems in Puerto Rico, Texas, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Florida, there is also serious risk of the spread of water-borne diseases like cholera. Additionally, with the amount of flooding that has occurred throughout the affected areas, the large amounts of standing water will aid in the breeding of mosquitos, especially in the tropical climate of Puerto Rico. There is a serious possibility that insect-borne diseases will proliferate, including diseases like Zika and dengue fever. 11. National Park Service (Department of the Interior)- the National Park Service has received robust funding in past supplementals to help clean up debris and restore areas under its jurisdiction. The Service has also been provided with historic preservation grants funding to assist states. We believe that similar assistance should be provided to all affected areas. 12. Social Services Block Grant (ACF, Department of Health and Human Services) - Funding for the SSBG was provided in several previous disaster responses, including for Hurricanes Sandy and Katrina. It provides states with a very flexible source of funding to assist vulnerable populations- like children and the disabled. In past supplementals, money from this program has also been allowed to be used to supply health services and construct, repair, or renovate child care centers, health facilities, and other types of social services. 13. Head Start (ACF, Department of Health and Human Services)- There is a strong likelihood of severe damage to Head Start facilities throughout Puerto Rico, Florida, and Texas- in Hurricane Sandy, more than 100 Head Start Centers were damaged. This funding helps to clean, repair, or rebuild these facilities, depending upon the need. 14. Community Health Centers (HRSA, Department of Health and Human Services)- Last year’s Zika Supplemental including funding for Community Health Centers (CHC) because of their role in providing health care services in Puerto Rico. Initial reports are that only 10 percent of CHCs are operational in Puerto Rico, and the lone CHC on St. John’s, which serves as the only 24 hour health care facility, has been impaired. Given the role CHCs play in assisting low-income populations, we believe that additional funding is urgently needed, given the damage sustained in all the affected areas during this hurricane season 15. Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (Department of Health and Human Services) - This fund assists the federal government in responding to natural disasters and the attendant threats to public health. It also helps to replenish the Strategic National Stockpile as items are used in disaster response, something that has occurred in the response to Hurricanes Irma, Maria, and Harvey. 16. Department of Defense- The Department of Defense will need to be reimbursed for the cost of personnel, operational costs, procurement of equipment, and repair damaged facilities throughout Florida, Texas, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. In addition, the islands of Vieques and Culebra, which were part of a Department of Defense bombing range for several decades, were severely damaged by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. There are concerns that remaining ordnance on the islands (and offshore) may have shifted during the hurricanes, and remain a serious danger to residents. We believe that the Department should assess and complete the cleanup of the remaining ordinance as part of the recovery effort. 17. Department of Commerce- National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) - NOAA has played an important role in previous emergency supplementals in assisting with a diverse set of rebuilding, restoration, and reconstruction missions, including: fishery recovery and restoration, providing for the direct needs of fishermen and related businesses who suffered damage and disruptions, scanning, mapping, and removing marine debris, and repairing or replacing damaged facilities and assets. All of these issues will need to be addressed here as well. 18. U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (Department of the Interior)- The Fish and Wildlife Service plays an important role in the aftermath of disasters in repairing, cleaning, and rebuilding wildlife refuges and local wetlands to reduce the risk of future flooding. In the FY 2013 Disaster Supplemental, the Fish & Wildlife Service received $68.2 million in funding for this program. Similar funding will greatly help the areas affected by Hurricanes Maria, Irma, and Harvey. 19. Department of Commerce- Economic Development Administration (EDA) - The Economic Development Administration is authorized to fund disaster recovery efforts under the Economic Adjustment Assistance (EAA) program. These funds can be used to finance public facilities, public services, business development, and technical assistance. Several previous disaster supplementals, including P.L. 110-329, P.L. 110-252, and P.L. 112-55 helped localities to recover from disastrous hurricanes. 20. State and Tribal Assistance Grants (Environmental Protection Agency) - There has been extensive damage to wastewater and water treatment systems in Puerto Rico as a result of Hurricane Maria, while the U.S. Virgin Islands has also sustained catastrophic damage to its infrastructure. STAG grants provide states and localities with the ability to repair and rebuild these crucial public health and safety systems. The Emergency Hurricane Sandy Supplemental included $600 million in funding for this program. Absent such funding here, there is a real danger of water-borne diseases spreading. 21. Leaking Underground Storage Tanks (Environmental Protection Agency) - Significant flooding exacerbated already leaking contaminants from storage tanks and appropriate corrective action must be taken. 22. National Resources Conservation Service (Department of Agriculture) - the Emergency Watershed Protection program assists landowner and operators after disaster to help them cleanup and restore their lands. This includes things like preventing runoff and erosion to relieve hazards. 23. U.S. Forest Service (Department of Agriculture) - The El Yunque National Forest in Puerto Rico has been severely damaged by Hurricane Maria. It is the only tropical rain forest in the National Forest system, and is a significant tourist site for the island, meaning that there is a significant economic benefit to a strong and sustainable national forest on the island. 24. Office of Insular Affairs (Department of the Interior)- technical assistance and Capital Improvement Project grants are for operating expenses and infrastructure needs in the U.S. territories including critical needs such as hospitals, schools, and wastewater systems. 25. Farm Service Agency (Department of Agriculture) - The FSA performs a variety of disaster related activities in response to previous disasters, which include: payments to farmers/ranchers who have lost crops and livestock as a result of natural disasters. Additionally, this agency administers two land related disaster programs, the Emergency Forestry Conservation Reserve Program, and the Emergency Conservation Program. The former compensates forest landowners for losses and the latter provides farmers with funding and technical assistance to rehabilitate farmland damaged by natural disasters. In Puerto Rico, crops and livestock have been devastated by Hurricane Maria, and this funding will help farmers and ranchers find their financial footing. 26. Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy & Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability (Department of Energy) – The Department of Energy plays a key role in grid modernization. Puerto Rico’s grid was gravely affected by Hurricane Maria and DOE should provide all available programmatic and technical assistance for the rebuilding and modernization of the electrical grid in Puerto Rico. It is particularly important that Puerto Rico's power lines be protected from future weather events, and DOE should assist Puerto Rico in analyzing the placement of power lines underground. 27. Immediate Aid to Restart School Operations (Department of Education)- the 2005 supplemental (P.L. 109-148) included $750 million to Local Educational Agencies and non-public schools along the Gulf Coast to restart school operations, reopen schools and reenroll students. Similar funding will be needed to help Puerto Rico’s schools reopen and begin operations. 28. Temporary Emergency Impact Aid for Displaced Students (Department of Education) - In total, more than $880 million was appropriated to jurisdictions that received displaced students as a result of the Gulf Coast Hurricanes- divided based on the number of displaced children who enrolled at each location. Given the expected migration of hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans to Florida, Texas, New York, and elsewhere, LEAs in those jurisdictions will need additional assistance to help enroll displaced students. 29. Institutions of Higher Education (Department of Education) - In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the various disaster supplementals included $280 million in funding for institutions of higher education along the Gulf Coast that were damaged or forced to relocate. Several universities are located in Puerto Rico that will need similar assistance. 30. Department of Veterans Affairs- there are reports of significant damage to medical treatment facilities for veterans in Puerto Rico. Those who have served our country deserve the same level of assistance on the island as veterans in the 50 states receive, and we ask that funding be appropriated to repair all damaged facilities. 31. Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (USAID) – Because Puerto Rico has close ties to several other Caribbean nations impacted by Hurricanes Irma, Maria, and Harvey, we believe it is important that the entire region receive assistance to recover from the damage caused. As such, we believe that there needs to be an increase in funding to address the significant needs in the Caribbean and elsewhere. 32. Nutrition Assistance for Puerto Rico (Department of Agriculture) - Because Puerto Rico does not participate in base Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), it receives a block grant that is not commensurate with the need. Given the scale of the disaster here, it will be necessary to increase the size of that block grant to help address serious hunger issues on the island. 33. Coast Guard (Department of Homeland Security) - the Coast Guard has performed significant disaster response activities, and in previous supplementals has received significant funding to address these operational expenses. Additionally, some of their assets have sustained damage as a result of Hurricanes Maria, Irma, and Harvey. 34. General Services Administration (GSA)- Given the number of federal buildings in Florida, Texas, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, it is likely that there will need to be supplemental funding to help repair and restore courthouses and federal buildings to working order. 35. Public Housing (Department of Housing and Urban Development)- Although FEMA is able to cover some costs , additional funding will be needed to ensure that public housing authorities in affected areas are able to rehabilitate or reconstruct public housing units to ensure that they have the same number of units as prior to the storm. FEMA funds are likely to be insufficient in this regard. 36. Legal Services Corporation (LSC) - the LSC provides grants to local services providers to provide assistance to low-income individuals who otherwise go without legal representation. After Hurricane Sandy, emergency assistance was approved to allow the LSC grantees to help with the specific needs of individuals impacted by that storm. We believe there needs to be additional assistance here so that providers in areas affected by Hurricanes Maria, Irma, and Harvey to help low-income individuals file insurance claims, find or retain housing, replace personal documents, file documents with FEMA, and address other issues. 37. National Science Foundation (NSF) - there has been severe damage to the NSF-run Arecibo Observatory in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, and it will be necessary to repair the damage so it can be restored to operational status. This is an important symbol of our nation’s commitment to Puerto Rico, and it should be restored. We thank you for your consideration of these needs, and look forward to working with you to help all the affected areas fully recover from these devastating events. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.02.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman José E. Serrano together with 50 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Trump urging him to deploy all available federal assets and agencies to rebuild the communications infrastructure of Puerto Rico. The island has failing infrastructure that needs to be addressed immediately to aid with recovery efforts. "Puerto Rico is facing a humanitarian crisis and adequate communication systems are necessary in order to adequately carry out the relief efforts," said Congressman Serrano. "President Trump has talked about fixing the failing infrastructure in our country and helping Puerto Rico with theirs in their time of need will show his commitment to this issue." The full text of the letter is below and was signed by the following members: Serrano, González-Colón, Velázquez, Crowley, Soto, Curbelo, Lujan Grisham, S. Murphy, Huffman, Raskin, Wasserman Schultz, C. Maloney, Welch, Kaptur, Evans, Schakowsky, Cohen, Levin, Vargas, Castor, Pascrell, Ellison, Vela, Khanna, Holmes Norton, Garamendi, S.P. Maloney, Espaillat, Lowey, C. Smith, Moore, Engel, Meng, Doyle, Shea-Porter, Lieu, Cárdenas, Price, Conyers, Hastings, Gomez, DeGette, Beatty, Connolly, Moulton, Slaughter, K. Rice, Lynch, Diaz Barragán, Nolan, Tonko September 27, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to immediately deploy all available federal assets and relevant federal agencies to Puerto Rico for the express purpose of reestablishing telecommunications services such as telephone, cellular phone, and internet services in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The situation is very dire in Puerto Rico right now and with many localities still cut off from the rest of the island, communications are key in sharing information, residents receiving aid from first responders as well as from their relatives in the 50 states, and localities being able to respond to the first aid needs of communities and receive the support necessary to prevent further loss of life. Currently, private telecommunications service providers are sending response teams from the 50 states and assessing the damage to the infrastructure in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. While the service providers have been proactive, we believe that due to the gravity of the situation, it is necessary for the federal government to support the reestablishment of services as quickly as possible for individuals and localities throughout the islands. In short, cellular and internet connections for basic communications purposes are crucial in fulfilling basic necessities. FEMA and other government agencies such as the Office of Cybersecurity and Communications at the Department of Homeland Security’s National Protection and Programs Directorate have the mission of helping restore emergency communications networks and critical infrastructure for government, first responders, states, and localities. In addition, the Department of Defense has the capacity to provide resources and capabilities when other federal agencies are overwhelmed. We respectfully request that the full extent of these federal assets be deployed immediately to help restore individual service as well- at least until private service providers can fully restore their networks. The lack of communications is undermining the relief effort- especially in communities currently cut off from other parts of the island. A working cellular network is necessary in order to receive emergency services and medically treat those in need to prevent the loss of life. It is also vital in order for municipalities to communicate with Commonwealth and federal disaster response authorities in order to receive the necessary help. From roads that need to be cleared, to locating missing persons, to communicating with remote areas and maintaining the safety and security of its residents, telecommunications services are vital. Network restoration will also assist disaster response relief teams in narrowly tailoring aid to those areas most in need and quickly deploying assets across the island. In short, reestablishing communications in a prompt manner is crucial in order to have an effective disaster response and relief efforts. The people of Puerto Rico need robust assistance at this hour of great need and it is incumbent upon us to help in every manner possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
09.29.2017	Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano today led eight Members of Congress in sending a letter to Secretary Price and Assistant Secretary Kadlec of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to ask for an immediate increase in resources to address the emerging public health emergency in Puerto Rico. Serrano was joined on the letter by Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez, Congressman Luis Gutiérrez, Congressman Darren Soto, Congressman Joseph Crowley, Congressman Adriano Espaillat, Congresswoman Grace Meng, and Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy. “Puerto Rico is on the verge of a serious public health crisis,” said Congressman Serrano. “HHS can and should do more to ensure individuals have access to medicine and safe drinking water, hospitals can begin to operate at full capacity all over the island, and that we minimize the spread of dangerous diseases. We are at risk of a secondary tragedy without a greater focus on public health.” Read the full letter below: September 28, 2017 The Honorable Tom Price, MD Secretary of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20201 The Honorable Robert Kadlec Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Room 638G Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Price and Assistant Secretary Kadlec, We write to you to ask that the Department of Health and Human Services immediately provide significantly more resources to address the emerging public health emergency in Puerto Rico. While some resources have been provided to date, there is much more that HHS can and should be doing. The devastation on the island is total. Many areas of the island are still effectively cut off due to impassable and damaged roads, leaving hundreds of thousands of individuals without urgently needed medical care. Without electricity, many of the hospitals also lack diesel fuel to run their generators. Massive flooding has left standing water in many locations, which will undoubtedly lead to an influx of mosquitos and insect borne diseases like Zika, dengue fever, and chikungunya. Additionally, with much of the island lacking clean and safe access to water, there is a danger that several water-borne diseases will soon spread- including cholera. While we are pleased that you have declared a public health emergency and started to mobilize resources, we believe that there are further actions that you must take to prevent further loss of life. First, there needs to be an immediate effort, in concert with local authorities, to provide mosquito abatement to reduce the spread of mosquitos and other insects that spread dangerous disease. Second, we believe the Strategic National Stockpile must be utilized in order to provide life-saving medicine to individuals with urgent medical needs. Although medical units from the Stockpile are being utilized- medications are not. Given the large number of pharmacies that remain closed on the island, it is becoming difficult for many individuals to fill necessary prescriptions, and this would help alleviate these concerns. Third, we ask that HHS coordinate the deployment of additional medical personnel to the island, in particular to areas where hospitals are without electricity, and areas currently cut off from the major metropolitan areas. Lastly, we urge you to work to restore safe drinking water with your partners at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and elsewhere. The scale of this disaster has created conditions of great danger with regard to public health. As the primary agency tasked with protecting public health under the National Response Framework, we urge you to immediately act to expand your efforts and take steps to stop a secondary crisis from developing. Sincerely, ###
09.22.2017	The Bronx, NY – Today, Congressman Jose E. Serrano led a bipartisan letter to President Trump urging him to immediately create a Task Force to plan, coordinate and support the reconstruction efforts that will be taking place in the aftermath of hurricanes Irma, Harvey and Maria’s passage through Puerto Rico and other states and territories including Texas, Florida, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The letter was signed by Representatives Nydia M. Velazquez, Darren Soto, and Puerto Rico’s Resident Commissioner Jennifer Gonzalez. “We appreciate that you declared that a major disaster exists in Puerto Rico and ordered federal assistance to supplement state and local recovery efforts, and that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is leading the recovery efforts to assist the island. Due to the magnitude of destruction brought by Hurricane Maria, we believe that a long-term comprehensive and collaborative framework is necessary in order to rebuild Puerto Rico, its economy, its health care system and its infrastructure. Reconstruction efforts should address economic conditions and the island’s aged infrastructure, which includes public housing, roads, public transportation systems, and utilities. In addition, these efforts should develop a plan to make infrastructure resilient to withstand future natural disasters,” the members wrote. September 22, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: We write to urge you to immediately establish by executive order a task force to provide the necessary coordination to support the reconstruction of Puerto Rico, Texas, Florida, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and other affected locations—similar to the one created after Hurricane Sandy. As a New York resident, you are probably aware that a Hurricane Sandy Task Force was formed in the wake of that traumatic event, and that the comprehensive plan developed by federal, state, and local stakeholders helped aid the recovery effort in New York City and elsewhere. A similar plan is needed for all of the areas affected during this hurricane season. For those of us with ties to Puerto Rico, it has been difficult to watch how Hurricane Maria has devastated the island and brought great hardship to the 3.4 million American citizens residing there. High winds and a storm surge have caused widespread flooding, displacement of persons, and significant damage to private homes and businesses as well as public infrastructure. The entire island is currently without electricity and cellular phone and internet services are inoperative in many parts of the island. Furthermore, the government of Puerto Rico has stated that it will take months to fully restore the electricity system. While we still do not know the estimates of total damage, it will be very likely be in the tens of billions of dollars. We appreciate that you declared that a major disaster exists in Puerto Rico and ordered federal assistance to supplement state and local recovery efforts, and that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is leading the recovery efforts to assist the island. Due to the magnitude of destruction brought by Hurricane Maria, we believe that a long-term comprehensive and collaborative framework is necessary in order to rebuild Puerto Rico, its economy, its health care system and its infrastructure. Reconstruction efforts should address economic conditions and the island’s aged infrastructure, which includes public housing, roads, public transportation systems, and utilities. In addition, these efforts should develop a plan to make infrastructure resilient to withstand future natural disasters. For more than a decade, Puerto Rico has suffered from an economic depression, a financial crisis, unsustainable debt levels, high unemployment, excessive electricity and water utility rates, an exodus of hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans to the 50 states, and a chronic lack of job opportunities for young, hardworking people. We believe that the federal government should implement economic policies and reforms such as the ones recommended by the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico. We also believe that sufficient long-term assistance should be granted to address the healthcare crisis in the island. At a time when hundreds of doctors are leaving Puerto Rico each year, the quality and availability of health care has markedly decreased. These problems are likely to be exacerbated by Hurricane Maria. An important part of the solution will require lifting the Medicaid cap on Puerto Rico and the other territories and granting them state-like treatment for Medicaid and Medicare programs. In addition to this long-term assistance, it is crucial for the federal government to provide swift assistance to prevent the spread of disease on the island in the aftermath of flooding. The federal government must do everything in its power to prevent mosquito-borne diseases such as Zika, chikungunya, and dengue from spreading and this will require the prevention of mosquito reproduction and the disposal of standing waters. Additionally, it is imperative that the U.S. Department of Energy, along with FEMA, provide the island with the necessary help to reestablish electrical service in short order. Residents, hospitals, schools, and businesses depend on it. In addition, it is necessary for the administration to provide long-term technical and programmatic assistance so that the island can modernize its electrical grid and power generation and transmission systems. With electricity rates being double to those charged in the mainland, the federal government must address this problem in order to incentivize reconstruction, attract investment, create jobs, and enhance economic growth. The administration must be bold and should consider Puerto Rico as an electricity generation hub for the neighboring islands in the Caribbean such as the U.S. and British Virgin Islands, and thereby create an economy of scale when it comes to power generation and transmission. Furthermore, the Department of Defense should take bold action in remediating the areas used by the military in Vieques and Culebra, which suffered extreme environmental degradation in their years as Defense Department property. Since the agreement was reached to restore them and return them to a state of environmental health, Puerto Ricans have waited for an expected date when the work will be over. These areas, which contain great amounts of ordnance, were battered by Hurricane Maria and must be cleaned up. In addition to environmental cleanup, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers should assess the damage sustained across the island and should either complete or initiate projects that accomplish the following: environmental restoration, navigation, flood risk reduction, and hurricane damage reduction. With reports of rivers overflowing in Puerto Rico, it is vital that the Corps assess the situation and take remedial action. Thank you for your commitment in helping Puerto Rico recover from the worst natural disaster in over 85 years. Creating a Hurricanes Maria, Irma, and Harvey Reconstruction Task Force will be beneficial for all stakeholders in this process. There will be challenges ahead, but we believe that together we can and will help Puerto Rico and other affected areas emerge as stronger than ever before. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
09.21.2017	Today, Congressman Serrano issued the following statement on Hurricane Maria and its impact on Puerto Rico: “The images and reports out of Puerto Rico so far are devastating. My place of birth has been deeply damaged by Hurricane Maria, after having been affected by Hurricane Irma just a few weeks ago. Many of my constituents also have strong ties to the island and I am deeply concerned for the people of Puerto Rico. The federal response must be swift and comprehensive. I commend the Governor Ricardo Rosselló for his strong leadership, and pledge to work with the local government to help quickly repair the damage and those in need. “I am acutely aware of the devastating impact and urgent need for federal aid in the aftermath of a hurricane, in this case the worst one to hit the island in recent history. As a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will be working with my colleagues on the committee to help quickly craft a comprehensive emergency disaster supplemental that address the rebuilding and recovery process in areas impacted by Hurricanes Maria, Irma, and Harvey. The affected areas in Texas, Puerto Rico, Florida, and elsewhere deserve the same comprehensive response to that my hometown eventually received in the wake of Sandy. “We have already taken a first step in that process- but as we move forward, it is imperative that every resource be used to help rebuild and strengthen affected areas, avoid environmental disasters, and prevent humanitarian emergencies. As we saw with Sandy, a proper disaster response requires not just emergency help to save lives, but long-term assistance to repair, rebuild, and fortify vulnerable areas. The people in Puerto Rico, Houston, and elsewhere are hurting, and they are looking to us to provide the reassurance, assistance, and comfort that they need. “Lastly, I would note that we need to make sure that Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are treated equally in the funding for these recovery efforts- they are part of the American family, and we must do justice by all of those affected, regardless of whether they reside in a state.
09.20.2017	September 20, 2017, BRONX, NY—Congressman José E. Serrano and Legal Services NYC are pleased to announce that Project Not Alone, a collaborative effort between Bronx Legal Services and Sauti Yetu Center for African Women & Families, has been awarded a competitive grant for continued funding to provide holistic legal and social services for survivors of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking in the Bronx. The funding, $600,000 over three years, was awarded by the Office on Violence Against Women’s Legal Assistance for Victims (LAV) Grant Program. The Bronx experiences staggeringly high rates of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. Since October 2014, LAV funding for Project Not Alone has provided hundreds of survivors with the legal representation and case management support they need to address and alleviate the many problems associated with sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. Project Not Alone represents survivors in family, matrimonial, and immigration matters, and provides case management in the form of safety planning, crisis intervention, mental health services, housing and public benefits application assistance, and client accompaniment. Project Not Alone leverages Bronx Legal Services’ and Sauti Yetu’s combined expertise and relationships with community advocates, hospitals, schools, organizations, and religious institutions to reach survivors through mutual referral mechanisms, and conduct outreach to publicize services available through the Project. Additionally, Project Not Alone conducts quarterly Know Your Rights trainings in communities throughout the Bronx that target the underserved and at-risk populations. With this continued funding, Project Not Alone will continue to represent survivors of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking, primarily in Spanish-speaking and African communities of the Bronx, in their requests for orders of protection, custody, child/ spousal support, divorce, asylum, Special Immigrant Juvenile Status, U and T nonimmigrant status, VAWA self-petitions, and Battered Spouse Waivers; and to connect them to case managers who can help them with housing, public benefits, counseling, and safety planning. Project Not Alone clients will have access to all other legal and social services at Bronx Legal Services and Sauti Yetu so that, whenever possible, their needs will be addressed holistically. “Victims of domestic violence and sexual assault need comprehensive help and support, something that can be a challenge in immigrant communities. This federal grant from the Department of Justice will allow Bronx Legal Services and the Sauti Yetu Center for African Women & Families to continue their collaborative effort, Project Not Alone, a groundbreaking program that provides immigrant women from Spanish-speaking and African communities in the Bronx with access to the legal assistance, social services, and other support in the wake of domestic violence,” said Congressman Serrano. “Project Not Alone is a good example of how federal funding plays an important role in helping The Bronx. As Ranking Member of the appropriations subcommittee in charge of allocating funding for the Office of Violence Against Women and the Legal Services Corporation, I will continue working to ensure that these vital programs have the levels of funding they need to continue serving communities like the Bronx.” “OVW funding makes it possible for Project Not Alone to continue to deliver high quality legal and social services for people affected by violence in the Bronx,” said Terry Lawson, Director of the Family and Immigration Unit at Bronx Legal Services. “We look forward to continuing our collaborative relationship with Sauti Yetu and with all those working hard in the Bronx to protect families.” "Sauti Yetu is grateful to have received this grant which allows us to strengthen our services to support and protect survivors and their children throughout the Bronx," said Zeinab Eyega, Sauti Yetu’s Executive Director. About Bronx Legal Services: As a program of Legal Services NYC, the largest provider of free civil legal services in the country, Bronx Legal Services fights poverty and seeks justice for the most vulnerable populations in the Bronx by providing legal advice and representation in the matters most commonly affecting our clients. Bronx Legal Services has more than 60 attorneys, one social worker, and 29 administrative and support staff members, the majority of whom are bilingual Spanish speakers and provide on-site interpretation and translation services. In addition, Bronx Legal Services has a contract with Ethnic Bridge, which provides confidential interpretation into multiple languages through telephone interpreters. Bronx Legal Services helps survivors stabilize and rebuild their lives by providing free, high-quality legal services in the areas of orders of protection, immigration, divorce, custody, visitation, and child and spousal support as well as housing, foreclosure, benefits, tax, employment, consumer, and education law. About Sauti Yetu Center for African Women & Families: Sauti Yetu is the only African immigrant community-based organization that provides services to victims of violence from New York City’s African immigrant communities. Sauti Yetu’s holistic approach is informed by community outreach and advocacy around gender issues that uniquely affect immigrant women and girls, such as early marriage and female genital cutting. As a program geared towards providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services for survivors, Sauti Yetu ensures that survivors with Limited English Proficiency are able to understand their rights and options and are empowered to make informed decisions. Sauti Yetu has multi-lingual staff that speaks French, Mandinka, Dioula, Soninke, Wolof, Fulani, Bambara, and other languages spoken throughout Africa. Sauti Yetu’s clients collectively speak up to 41 different languages at any given time. With deep roots in this diverse community, Sauti Yetu is able to reach those in need who cannot read, and who speak dialects that are oral and not written. ###
09.20.2017	The Bronx – Today, Congressman Serrano was joined by Former Mayor David Dinkins; Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz, Jr.; New York State Senator Gustavo Rivera; New York State Assemblyman Victor Pichardo; Councilmember Vanessa L. Gibson; and Bronx Postmaster Lilliam Rodriguez for the renaming ceremony of the Morris Heights Post Office, located at 2024 Jerome Avenue, in honor of Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. The renaming was made possible thanks to Congressman Serrano and other members of the NY Delegation efforts in Congress last year. In September 2016, Congressman Serrano along with Congressmen Charles Rangel, Eliot Engel, and the rest of the delegation in the House of Representatives introduced legislation to rename the post office after the former Tuskegee Airman and Bronx Community College President Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. The bill was approved in the Senate at the end of the year, and signed into law by President Obama. “Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. dedicated his life to serving his country and helping others achieve greater opportunities – he was an African-American trailblazer, a hero in every sense of the word, and a source of pride for all. His valiant service in the armed forces during WWII as a Tuskegee Airman, along with his later work as a civil rights leader and educator, strengthened our country, and made it a better place for all Americans. By renaming the Morris Heights Post Office in his honor we have ensured his life and legacy is rightly honored and remembered for generations to come. I want to thank everyone who joined me today to unveil the renamed post office and all the members of the New York Congressional delegation who supported my legislation, which made this honor possible,” said Congressman Serrano. CAPTION: Congressman Serrano addresses attendees at the renaming ceremony of the Morris Heights Post Office, located at 2024 Jerome Avenue, in honor of Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. (9/20/2017) CAPTION: Congressman Serrano is joined by other local elected officials and Bronx Postmaster Lilliam Rodriguez for the the renaming ceremony of the Morris Heights Post Office, located at 2024 Jerome Avenue, in honor of Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. (9/20/2017) The official plate that renames the Morris Heights Post Office, located at 2024 Jerome Avenue, in honor of Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. (9/20/2017) Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. was a member of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen unit, where he conducted 68 missions and became one of the first African-American fighter pilots to shoot down a German fighter jet during World War II. His heroism earned him and his fellow airmen a Congressional Gold Medal from President George W. Bush in 2007. Dr. Brown earned his graduate and doctoral degrees from New York University, where he went on to serve as a professor of education and director of Afro-American Affairs. During the racial upheaval of the 1960s and 1970s, he served as an informal advisor to many Civil Rights leaders and helped found 100 Black Men, a civic organization advocating for better treatment of African-Americans in New York City. Dr. Brown also served as President of Bronx Community College for 17 years. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
09.15.2017	The Bronx – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined millions of Americans to mark the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, celebrated every year from September 15 through October 15. “On Hispanic Heritage Month, we honor the Hispanic community and celebrate all the extraordinary contributions that Hispanics have made throughout our history since before the founding of our country. “Latinos are a vital part of our nation, economically, culturally, and politically. American life has only been enriched by Latinos’ contributions in every realm of our society: the military, the private sector, government, education, philanthropy, and the arts. “Under the Trump Administration, however, we have seen some of the worst attacks on Hispanics and the policies and programs that allow them to have a fair shot at the American Dream. “In Congress, Democrats are committed to fighting these policies. Our priority continues to be expanding access to opportunity for all working families, including Hispanics. We also remain committed to passing comprehensive immigration reform and to protecting DREAMers. It is past time for Congress to finally take action to fix our broken immigration system. Now that President Trump has decided to end DACA, Republicans should join us to pass the DREAM Act and prevent hundreds of children who know no other place as home from being deported. “This Hispanic Heritage Month, we should celebrate our community’s contributions more than ever. At the same time, we can’t forget the challenges that lie before us. We must continue to work hard to expand opportunities for Latino communities across the country and to fix our broken immigration system." ###
09.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the decision by the United States Postal Service, after pressure from elected officials that he led and the public, to cancel most planned service cuts to the Bronx. The cuts would have reduced staffing at post offices across the borough, and would have degraded service quality at a number of locations. Late last year, a report by the U.S. Postal Service Inspector General found that several post offices in the Bronx had serious service issues, including: long wait times of up to an hour, inefficient package pick-up and retail operation, and understaffing. The USPS was supposed to address the problems immediately following the audit but to this date, little appears to have been done to this effect. Further service cuts would have exacerbated these problems. “The cancellation of planned staffing cuts is a victory for The Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “The Postal Service’s plans would have gutted services by removing more than 120 jobs from post offices across the borough, which would have made lines longer and increased frustration for many Bronxites who depend upon reliable post offices. I want to thank advocates, elected officials, postal employees and others for joining me in expressing dismay over these planned service cuts. Thanks to this pressure, we have been able to do what many other areas of the City and nation have not- turn back these terrible plans. The Post Office is experiencing revenue issues, but the way fix those problems is not by reducing the very services that loyal clients depend upon.” “The members of the New York Metro Area Postal Union are proud to stand with Congressman Serrano and the Bronx community in the fight for the people of the Bronx to receive first class postal services,” said New York Metro Area Postal Union President Jonathan Smith. ###
09.11.2017	Washington, DC –US Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) today released the following statement on the 16th Anniversary of September 11: “16 years after the tragic events of September 11, we still remember the sadness and fear that befell our city and country on that heinous day. “As a native New Yorker, this was a deeply personal and painful day. As we commemorate this anniversary, let us keep in our thoughts and prayers those who lost their lives and their loved ones. Let us also thank the countless first responders and volunteers from all over the country who helped our city in its time of need. And let us also renew our commitment to honor those who lost their lives and to help those who put everything on the line to help by providing them with ongoing assistance and care. “In the immediate aftermath of September 11, we came together as a nation in the spirit of unity and solidarity. In this era of so much division, we cannot afford to forget that it is in our core values where we find our strength, our unity, and our greatness.” ###
09.08.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives José E. Serrano, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Hakeem Jeffries, and Grace Meng condemned the Republican decision to block their amendment to combat hate crimes from being considered by the full House. The amendment was offered this week to H.R. 3354 – Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, and would have allocated $10 million for State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance grant programs to provide support for the criminal investigation and prosecution of hate crimes at the state and local level. “The events in Charlottesville last month made clear that hate speech and hate crimes simply cannot be overlooked and need to be properly addressed at every level of our government. As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science under the Appropriations Committee I see it as part of my responsibility to ensure that the Department of Justice has the resources it needs to combat bigotry and hate. Our amendment would have helped states and localities investigate and prosecute hate crimes, and shown that we in Congress take this rising tide of intolerance seriously. I’m deeply disappointed that Republicans once again failed to recognized the importance of this issue and refused to help our law enforcement agencies have the resources they need to keep our communities safe and fight one the most alarming issues we are experiencing as a country,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “No community is immune from hate groups and hate crimes,” said Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham, chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “Since President Trump took office, we’ve seen bomb threats against a Jewish community center and racist comments directed toward Muslims while praying at a Mosque in Albuquerque. Just this week, residents in my district expressed outrage and fear when a neighbor displayed an image of a flag with a Swastika symbol in the front window. We should all speak out against this racism and bigotry, but it’s just as important to give law enforcement the resources to investigate and prosecute hate crimes.” "Hate groups that worship at the altar of white supremacy are on the rise. Donald Trump has chosen to provide aid and comfort to the alt right and unrepentant racists like David Duke. We must ensure that governments at the local level have the resources needed to prosecute hate crimes waged by these groups. By preventing our localities from getting these critical resources, Republicans are once again on the wrong side of history,” said Rep. Hakeem Jeffries. “It is deeply troubling that GOP leaders blocked this amendment from being voted on by the House,” said U.S. Rep. Grace Meng “This measure would have been a vital tool in combating hate crimes and it would have provided law enforcement with needed resources to help with that effort. In the wake of Charlottesville and other bias incidents across the country, it is clear that we must do all we can to fight crimes involving racism, bigotry and intolerance. Unfortunately, the rejection of this amendment just made that job harder” ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee; Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY15), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee; Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY12), and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, today announced $25,943,449 in federal funds to reimburse New York law enforcement agencies for costs incurred protecting then-President-elect Trump during the presidential transition period. The funding was awarded through the Bureau of Justice Assistance’s (BJA) FY 2017 President-Elect Security Assistance Reimbursement Grant Program. “This is a major victory for New York taxpayers and law enforcement, who shouldn’t have to foot the bill for the federal responsibility of protecting the president-elect,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These federal funds will help offset the significant costs New York law enforcement incurred protecting then-President-elect Trump while simultaneously maintaining their extraordinary efforts to protect millions of New Yorkers.” “This is an important victory for fairness and common sense. This funding helps make New York City financially whole again by reimbursing the costs of protecting the President-elect between Election Day and Inauguration Day. The NYPD did an extraordinary job in performing what is really a federal responsibility, and I am glad that we were able to help ensure that public safety didn’t suffer as a result of this obligation. As a member of the Appropriations subcommittee and Ranking Member of CJS subcommittee where the money was appropriated, I want to thank our colleagues on both sides of the aisle for understanding the need for this reimbursement,” said Congressman Serrano. “New York City taxpayers have now gotten back part of what they’re owed,” said Mayor de Blasio. “That’s excellent news for our city and the hardworking police officers faced with this unprecedented security challenge. This was not an easy fight and we could not have done it without the tireless help of our congressional delegation, including U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey, Grace Meng, Jose Serrano, Dan Donovan, Carolyn Maloney and Jerrold Nadler, and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand.” “The NYPD and FDNY did an exceptional job meeting the unprecedented demands of protecting then-President elect Trump in and around Trump Tower, which is in the heart of Manhattan in my district,” said Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (NY-12). “It was simply unfair to expect local law enforcement and New York City taxpayers alone to bear the costs of a national security priority. This had to be a federal responsibility, and I was very pleased that Congress appropriated funds for reimbursement to affected localities earlier this year, as I and many of colleagues urged. This latest funding award ensures the federal government meets this responsibility. I will continue to monitor the ongoing costs of protecting the President when he and his family are in New York and I believe that federal funds should be made available to the city as necessary in the future. New York City spent $24 million protecting Trump Tower and the First Family from Election Day through Inauguration Day. Estimates showed that the city spent, on average, $127,000 to $146,000 a day for the NYPD to protect the First Family when President Trump was not in town, and $308,000 per day when the President was in New York City. The $25,943,449 to the State of New York (through two awards of $18,943,449 and $7,000,000) will reimburse the New York City Police Department and the Suffolk County Police Department for overtime and associated fringe benefits for law enforcement costs associated with the extraordinary security required to protect the president-elect. In May, Congressman Serrano and Congresswoman Lowey helped secure $68 million in federal funds to defray manpower costs incurred protecting President Trump, then-President-elect Trump, and the first family. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
09.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today released the following statement in strong opposition of President Trump’s decision to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) in six month. Currently, 800,000 law abiding children and young adults benefit from the Executive Order: “Today, hundreds of thousands of young people who know of no other place as ‘home’ woke up to a cruel and heartless decision by President Trump. They now face severe uncertainty and the reality that in only 6 months they may lose their capacity to earn a living, be separated from their families and face deportation to a place where they have barely lived. Many of these children and their families live in my district and I know firsthand how much they are suffering under this administration. For DREAMers, the DACA program was the only option many young people have to solve their complex immigration status. The President’s actions undermines their potential, their hopes, and their dreams. I also know how much they contribute to our economy and the prosperity of our communities. Hundreds of our nation’s most important companies agree-- including Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon and General Motors – which is why they sent a letter to President Trump yesterday on how important DACA recipients are to the US economy. “This was a cruel choice by the President. He now says that Congress must act, but only after deciding to end the program. The DACA program was legally put in place under existing laws, and he could have chosen to maintain it. The President also clearly knows that members of his own party have blocked any immigration reform measures from reaching the floor for a vote, including previous efforts to help DREAMers. Now unless Congressional Republicans allow us to take action to pass legislation making up for President Trump’s cruel decision, these children will be subject to deportation to a place they barely know. It is time for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan to make this issue a priority and do the right thing by passing legislation immediately, before DREAMers end up being uprooted from their lives after facing deportation. As a member of Congress, I will be fighting every step of the way to help DREAMers, and restore some sanity to our immigration system.” DACA recipients should know that: 1) DACA is valid until its expiration date. 2) No new DACA applications will be accepted or processed. 3) If their DACA expires between now and March 4, 2018, individuals MUST submit their renewal application by October 5th. 4) Advance parole to travel across seas is no longer available. ###
08.31.2017	The Bronx – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) announced over $374,000 in federal grant funding through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Ryan White HIV/AIDS Dental Reimbursement Program for three health facilities in The Bronx. The awards are as follows: Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center received $304,997; and St. Barnabas Hospital and Healthcare System received $67,169, New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation received $1,901. “I am thankful for the Department of Health and Human Services' continued commitment of funding through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, which helps provide high-quality health care services to so many patients in need,” said Congressman Serrano. “Because of this funding, these fine institutions will be able to continue providing oral health care services to many patients in my District living with the disease. While considerable progress has been made in dealing with the HIV/AIDS epidemic nationally and around the world, places like The Bronx continue to experience persistently high rates of HIV transmission. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting everyday in Congress to make sure we provide adequate funding, not only to programs and policies that are proven to help lower rates of transmission, but also to programs like Ryan White that provide life-saving treatment, and social and health services for those living with the disease.” The Dental Reimbursement Program is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program. It provides crucial reimbursements to institutions with accredited dental or dental hygiene education programs to help defray the costs of providing dental services to patients living with HIV/AIDS. The Program was first funded in 1994. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.31.2017	The Bronx, NY – U.S. Representative José E. Serrano, U.S. Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer, U.S Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, and Governor Andrew Cuomo today announced $2,484,746 in federal funding for GrowNYC. The funding was allocated through the Economic Development Administration (EDA) and will allow GrowNYC to move forward with construction of a new Greenmarket Regional Food Hub in the South Bronx. The new facility will include a new wholesale farmers’ market, USDA compliant cold storage facility, a food-processing center, and other infrastructure upgrades to support local food businesses. “From its start, I have been a strong supporter of GrowNYC’s Greenmarket Regional Food Hub. I am glad that we were able to obtain this much-needed funding. This $2.5 million grant will allow the Food Hub to expand its operations to help local farmers, provide families with access to healthy food, and bring permanent living wage jobs to the Hunts Point neighborhood in the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “By increasing access to fresh and healthy produce, the Greenmarket Regional Food Hub will help improve the health and quality of life for Bronx residents, while expanding jobs and economic opportunities in our borough.” “This $2.4 million announcement is a win-win for New York because it will provide the South Bronx community with greater access to fresh, nutritious food and it will boost the local economy by creating over 100 jobs. I am proud to have partnered with my colleagues in Congress in securing this critical EDA grant and look forward to the success of GrowNYC’s Greenmarket Regional Food Hub,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. “We need to make access to healthy foods a priority in our communities,” said Senator Gillibrand, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “This funding will enable GrowNYC to expand their operations to increase access to nutritious produce in the Bronx and create new opportunities for our local farmers. Providing startups with these resources will continue to help boost the local economy, revitalize our communities, and create new good-paying jobs.” “The new South Bronx food hub will connect farmers to new markets and ensure our communities have access to more local food, and this additional funding brings us one step closer to the hub’s opening,” Governor Andrew M. Cuomo said. “With this facility, we will promote the consumption of local, healthy food, create more than 200 construction and permanent jobs, and help build a stronger, healthier New York for all.” “We are extremely grateful to Congressman Serrano, as well as Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and the other members of the New York State Congressional Delegation who have supported this project. The New York State Greenmarket Regional Food Hub, under Governor Cuomo’s leadership, brings together federal, state, and city resources to protect vital opportunities for New York State farmers, keep their lands in production, and ensure that all New Yorkers have access to their fresh, healthy products. This additional funding builds upon the incredible $15 million commitment made by New York State, and will allow us to build a state-of-the-art resource for generations of family farms,” said GrowNYC President and CEO Marcel Van Ooyen. The Greenmarket Regional Food Hub would provide small and mid-sized farmers access to New York City’s wholesale marketplace and expand GrowNYC’s food access programs like Youthmarket and the Fresh Food Box located in the Bronx. The new facility would provide nearly 20 million pounds of local produce a year and create approximately 131 new jobs. EDA provides funding to distressed communities to assist in their efforts to develop strategies, infrastructure, and programming important to economic growth and job creation. EDA grants are awarded based on the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant and investment process can be found at http://www.eda.gov. Schumer, Gillibrand, and Serrano’s joint letter with 23 members from New York State included https://www.gillibrand.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/GrowNYC.pdf. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.22.2017	Washington, DC – Troubled by reports of over $30 million in expenses in only one year of operation, Representatives Serrano and Velázquez sent a letter to the Chairman of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico expressing their concerns over the lack of transparency and independent supervision over the spending decisions made by the Board. In the letter, the members pointed to several reforms the Board should look to implement, including the use of Congress’ quarterly Statement of Disbursements for expenses incurred by Congressional offices. The members also urged the Board to have a Chief Financial Officer to make sure that the services rendered are obtained at the best price possible; to ensure all contracts are competitively bid; and to agree to undergo an annual audit to ensure independent oversight over these processes. “It has come to our attention that the Oversight Board has spent over $30 million—which comes from Puerto Rican taxpayers—for salaries, equipment, and services during its first year of operations. At a time when the government of Puerto Rico and its people have had to endure financial sacrifices, it is incumbent upon the Board to do the same and lead by example. As part of that process, the Board must be transparent and accountable by disclosing all of its disbursements. For example, in Congress we have a quarterly Statement of Disbursements for each expense incurred by a Congressional office. This system—which has been in place for decades—maintains transparency and accountability while at the same time encourages good stewardship of public funds,” Serrano and Velázquez wrote. August 18, 2017 Mr. José B. Carrión III Chairman Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico P.O. Box 192018 San Juan, PR 00919-2018 Dear Chairman Carrión: On May 11, 2017, we wrote you a letter underlining our concerns regarding the fiscal and economic policies included in Puerto Rico’s Fiscal Plan. Our views remain unchanged, but the purpose of this letter is to bring to your attention our deep concerns regarding the Fiscal Oversight Board’s lack of transparency when it comes to its expenses and disbursements. It has come to our attention that the Oversight Board has spent over $30 million—which comes from Puerto Rican taxpayers—for salaries, equipment, and services during its first year of operations. At a time when the government of Puerto Rico and its people have had to endure financial sacrifices, it is incumbent upon the Board to do the same and lead by example. As part of that process, the Board must be transparent and accountable by disclosing all of its disbursements. For example, in Congress we have a quarterly Statement of Disbursements for each expense incurred by a Congressional office. This system—which has been in place for decades—maintains transparency and accountability while at the same time encourages good stewardship of public funds. We believe this is a good practice to follow, and to that end, we believe that it is necessary for the Board to provide Congress and the public a detailed account and specific breakdown of all expenses incurred to date. This breakdown should detail all salaries, reimbursements, equipment purchases, and contracts incurred by the Board in a detailed, accessible, and comprehensive manner. Furthermore, the Board must make sure that it is a good steward of public funds and—if it has not done so yet—should implement appropriate procedures and practices that maintain the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board. To this end, the Board should have a Chief Financial Officer that makes sure that services rendered are obtained at the best price possible and that waste, fraud, and abuse have no place. Additionally, the Board must ensure that all contracts are competitively bid, in line with federal contracting standards. Lastly, the Board should be willing to undergo an annual audit to ensure independent oversight over these processes. Implementing policies that make the Board more transparent and accountable will help the Board maintain support for its mission in Puerto Rico from both the federal government and the people of Puerto Rico. Thank you for your attention and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, _______________________ ________________________ José E. Serrano Nydia Velázquez Member of Congress Member of Congress # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressmen José E. Serrano and Joseph Crowley sent a letter to National Science Foundation (NSF) Director France Córdova asking for an update on the agency’s implementation of the new Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) grant program. The program is key for educating and giving Hispanic students greater access to opportunities in the STEM fields: “The new National Science Foundation’s Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) grant program will play a key role in giving Hispanics greater access to education, training and professional opportunities in the science and technology fields. We need to make sure that the NSF is quickly moving forward with the planning process for the funds that were appropriated for FY2017 and that they let the public know about funding availability. As the nation’s largest minority group, it is important to expand our efforts to reach Hispanic students interested in STEM fields and ensure they have the tools needed to thrive and succeed in the future,” said Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the National Science Foundation. “The fields of science, technology, engineering, and math are critical for our country to compete and for Americans to succeed in today’s global economy. But the dearth of Latinos in these fields is a serious problem we must address,” said Chairman Joe Crowley. “Establishing a grant program to help Hispanic-Serving Institutions of Higher Education (HSIs) build capacity in their STEM programs would be a critical first step toward helping Hispanic students obtain these good-paying jobs. I’m glad to join with Rep. Serrano in urging the National Science Foundation to follow Congress’s direction and implement of the Hispanic-Serving Institution program to expand access to STEM education to more Hispanic students across our country.” FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER The Honorable France A. Córdova, Ph.D. Director National Science Foundation 4201 Wilson Boulevard Arlington, VA 22230 Dear Director Córdova: We would like to inquire about the status of your agency’s implementation of the Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) grant program. Now that Congress has provided funding for this program’s establishment, we are interested in receiving an update on its implementation. As you know, the America COMPETES Act (P.L. 110-69) first authorized the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a HSI grant program to “enhance the quality of undergraduate science, mathematics, engineering and technology and to increase retention and graduation rates of students pursuing associate or baccalaureate degrees in science, mathematics, engineering, or technology.” In 2016, Congress passed further legislation, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (P.L. 114-329), requiring the program’s implementation. More recently, on May 4, 2017, as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017 (P.L. 115-31), Congress included $15 million to establish this HSI infrastructure development grant program within NSF. The explanatory statement accompanying the law specifically stated that Congress ...directs NSF to establish an Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI) program at no less than $15,000,000 as authorized in 42 U.S.C. 1862o-12. The agreement encourages NSF to use this program to build capacity at institutions of higher education that typically do not receive high levels of NSF funding. Since the end of Fiscal Year 2017 is fast approaching, we would like to inquire about progress made to date on the implementation of the program. We are particularly interested in the following questions regarding your agency’s implementation: What is the NSF’s plan for disbursing the appropriated funds in FY 2017? How does the NSF plan to define “high levels” of funding as stated in the law? When will NSF publish a notice of funding availability? What institutions have expressed interest, formally or informally, in applying for funds through this grant program? When can we expect a list of the institutions that have been awarded a grant and where will such list be published? Finally, we understand a Dear Colleague letter was sent to institutions of higher education regarding the HSI program. Given our interest in learning how the NSF is engaging institutions on this program, we respectfully request that you provide a copy of this letter to our offices as well as to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees. We thank you in advance for your attention to this important matter and we look forward to working with you toward our shared goal of improving the participation of Hispanic Americans in the STEM fields. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Joseph Crowley Member of Congress Member of Congress ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.16.2017	Washington, DC –Today, on the 5th anniversary of President Obama’s DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) program, Congressman Serrano released the following statement urging people to unite and Congress to take action to defend the program: “In only a few years, DACA has helped more than 800,000 young people – all of whom have spent the vast majority of their lives in the United States and call our country home—to complete their studies, work legally without the fear of deportation, and contribute to our economy. But any moment Donald Trump could eliminate DACA and other important humanitarian immigrant protection programs like the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program. In June, ten state attorneys general sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions asking him to abolish DACA or face a lawsuit, and former Homeland Security Secretary Kelly has indicated that the program is at risk of being ended unless Congress takes action. Now more than ever we must unite and fight in Congress to find a legislative fix to protect the program and ensure that Dreamers have legal protections so they can live without fear of being deported and separated from their families. The Trump Administration has already wreaked havoc on immigrant and Hispanic communities all across the nation with their fear based enforcement efforts. Those efforts are wrong, and I will continue to fight alongside immigrant communities in the Bronx to protect those programs, like DACA and TPS, that protect immigrants from needless and cruel deportation efforts,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
08.16.2017	Washington, DC – US Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s press conference yesterday where he doubled down on his initial response to the Charlottesville tragedy. “The President only added fuel to the fire by changing his statement on the tragedy that occurred in Charlottesville and going back to his initial response where he blamed both sides for the events that took place in Charlottesville. He continues to divide our nation by defending white supremacists, Neo-Nazis and racism in general. What happened in Charlottesville was an act of domestic terrorism and the President refuses to even acknowledge this. I condemn his statements, which give solace to those who still revel in bigotry and oppression. Defending racism, prejudice and hatred is disgraceful. These are not the actions of a leader – let alone a President. Mr. President you are on the wrong side of history and as Commander in Chief of the United States of America I urge you to start leading all Americans, not just those who stand for division and hate,” said Congressman Serrano. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today announced the successful inclusion of report language related to Puerto Rico in the E&W, DoD, and CJS Appropriations Committee Reports. These provisions, some of which were recommended by the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico, will help ensure that Puerto Rico is treated fairly by the federal government. “The government of Puerto Rico needs our help to continue addressing important issues like the cleanup of Vieques and tackle other important issues in these difficult times. As I’ve said time and time again, when it comes to the allocation of our government resources and access to government programs, territories like Puerto Rico get the short end of the stick. Far too often, it is an uphill battle to ensure Puerto Rico is treated equally, so I’m proud to once again work to help the government and the people of Puerto Rico have access to the resources they need to address their needs,” said Congressman Serrano. In the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill, where Congressman Serrano is the Ranking Member, Serrano inserted language directing the Department of Commerce to calculate Puerto Rico’s Gross Domestic Product- something that the Department does for every other state and territory of our nation. He also included language asking the Department to work with Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin islands to eliminate an onerous requirement mandating reporting of certain good shipped between the states and these territories. Both of these changes will help individuals, businesses, and the government of Puerto Rico to better engage in detailed economic analysis of the needs and opportunities in Puerto Rico, and will put Puerto Rico on equal footing with other states and territories. Additionally, Congressman Serrano successfully included language to help with the ongoing cleanup of Vieques and Culebra in the Department of Defense Appropriations. He also inserted language in the Energy and Water Appropriations report urging the Department of Energy to offer technical and other programmatic assistance to Puerto Rico to support investment in innovative environmental technologies.A full list of the report and legislation language included in the various Appropriations bills follows below: DoD Report Language: VIEQUES AND CULEBRA ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION The Committee remains interested in the pace and scope of environmental restoration on the island municipalities of Culebra and Vieques in Puerto Rico. The Committee encourages the Secretary of the Navy to work closely with the Environmental Protection Agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board to maximize public participation and transparency in the decontamination process in order to achieve a thorough decontamination result on both islands. The Committee directs the Secretary of the Navy to submit a report to the congressional defense committees not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act detailing all decontamination authorities and plans applicable to Culebra and Vieques, to include particular emphasis on the decontamination of the northwest peninsula of Culebra. E&W Report Language: EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY The Committee encourages EERE to offer technical and other programmatic assistance to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to support investment in innovative technologies to effectively reduce power system emissions, efficiently treat wastewater, produce biofuels, and generate power from solid waste. CJS Report Modernizing Economic Statistics in Puerto Rico.—The Committee urges the Department to continue its efforts to help the government of Puerto Rico to modernize its economic statistics programs, and directs the Department, through the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), to initiate efforts to calculate gross domestic product (GDP) for Puerto Rico, just as BEA currently does for every other U.S. jurisdiction. The Committee additionally urges the Department to work toward the inclusion of all U.S. territories--alongside the 50 states and the District of Columbia--in BEA's national-level GDP estimates, which will require the territory-level GDP data to meet all of BEA's quality standards. The Department shall report to the Committee on these efforts--both of which were recommended by the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico--within 90 days of enactment of this Act. Interstate Commerce.--The Committee has heard concerns about the Electronic Export Information (EEI) requirement located in 15 CFR Part 30, which mandates reporting for certain goods shipped between the States and Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Committee urges the Department to work in coordination with the governments of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as well as other Federal agencies and stakeholders, to identify alternative data sources that provide equivalent statistics on the shipments of goods among the territories and the States to achieve the same statistical objectives, while reducing the impact on commerce.
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano joined his Democratic colleagues in Congress to unveil their new economic agenda for the American people – A Better Deal: Better Jobs, Better Wages, Better Future. “Last week, our nation marked six months since the inauguration of President Trump,” said Congressman Serrano. “And even with full control of the legislative process, Republicans have not done a single thing to create good-paying jobs, raise the wages of hard-working Americans or rein in health costs. Democrats are offering A Better Deal that will provide better jobs, better wages and a better future for all hard-working Americans.” “Hard-working men and women across our nation are tired of being left out and left behind. The American people deserve A Better Deal that puts them first – not a recycling of the tired, failed Republican proposals that tilt the playing field in favor of corporations and the super-rich,” said Congressman Serrano. “I am proud to join my fellow Democrats to unveil this new ambitious proposal to provide real solutions to create a brighter, more secure economic future for Americans.” A Better Deal centers on three core objectives: 1. Creating millions more good-paying, full time jobs and raising wages; 2. Lowering the cost of living for America’s families, and 3. Building an economy that gives every American the tools to succeed in the 21st century. To accomplish these goals, this new economic agenda includes effective ideas to support hard-working Americans, including: Creating good-paying, full-time jobs for 10 million more Americans in the next five years through investment in infrastructure, small businesses, and job training partnerships; Lowering the cost of prescription drugs and ending outrageous drug price gouging; Cracking down on monopolies and big corporate mergers that hurt consumers, workers and competition. Democrats’ “Better Deal” provides Americans with a roadmap to grow the economy and strengthen the middle class. While Republicans continue to push the same old trickle-down economics and giving handouts to those at the top, Democrats are making sure that the government is on the side of working Americans. More details are available at: www.dems.gov/abetterdeal # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.17.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano introduced the Public Housing Capital Repair Fund Act. This legislation would allow public housing authorities to perform much-needed capital repairs to help improve the living conditions and health outcomes for public housing residents. Specifically, it will increase funding for the Public Housing Capital Fund, and target funding to high priority health hazards like mold reduction and lead paint removal. For decades, public housing has been severely underfunded, resulting in the deterioration of public housing buildings and an increasing backlog of capital repairs over the years. Today, more than $26 billion is needed to address all public housing capital needs. In New York City alone, NYCHA has a capital backlog of more than $2 billion. Meanwhile, over 1.1 million Americans currently reside in public housing units—many of which have damage, or will in the future—that pose a threat to their health and well-being. The Public Housing Capital Repair Fund Act would address the deteriorating conditions in public housing that are causing major health problems for hardworking families. It would also help preserve our decades-long investment in public housing by allowing public housing authorities to make thorough capital repairs rather than temporary fixes due to insufficient funding. “We can’t wait any longer to fix the unacceptable housing conditions posing a major health hazard for thousands of hardworking families living in public housing. Every American deserves access to a safe and healthy home. This bill would increase funding for the Public Housing Capital Fund, allowing public housing authorities to finally address much-needed capital repairs that have been accumulating over the years. It would also help our government reduce the overall health care costs associated with environmental hazards by targeting urgent health threats. A single investment in housing infrastructure can have a positive, tangible, and measurable immediate impact on the health of hundreds of individuals and families. Health is more than access to health care and treatment once an individual gets sick. It is also about preventing disease, and investing in the safety of our public housing will guarantee that hundreds of thousands of families living there have a healthy home,” said Congressman Serrano. "For far too long, the federal government has starved public housing of desperately needed funding. Although we have made an unprecedented investment in NYCHA, we are now facing budget cuts that threaten this progress and the health of 400,000 New Yorkers. I am proud to stand today with Congressman Serrano, and fight to improve the quality of life for residents," said Mayor Bill de Blasio Along with Serrano, 17 original cosponsors of the bill joined in introducing the bill: Rep. Eliot Engel, Rep. Joseph Crowley, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, Rep. Gregory Meeks, Rep. Nydia Velázquez, Rep. Yvette Clarke, Rep. Adriano Espaillat, Rep. Vicente González, Rep. Al Green, Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Rep. Dwight Evans, Rep. Raul Grijalva, Rep. Steve Cohen, Rep. André Carson, Rep. Shelia Jackson-Lee, and Rep. Grace Meng. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Center Program has provided a total of $13.2 million in grant funding to several health centers in the South Bronx. The anticipated funds allow these facilities to continue multi-year projects to provide health care services for vulnerable populations. “Community-based health clinics are a vital component of the Bronx’s health care system. This federal funding will help local clinics continue providing access to care for the most vulnerable families and help them meet a growing demand for their services,” said Congressman Serrano. “The four health centers receiving funding already provide excellent care, today’s funding will allow them to continue delivering the vital services that so many Bronxites have come to rely upon to stay healthy and happy.” The following four health centers received funding: Bronx Community Health Network - $4.2 million Bronx-Lebanon Integrated Services - $2.4 million La Casa De Salud - $1.2 million Urban Health Plan -$5.4 million The Health Center Program provides critical funding for community-based health clinics throughout the nation that provide a full range of integrated health care services- from medical and dental care to case management and transportation services- for low-income individuals, regardless of their ability to pay. More than 24 million Americans across the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the territories benefit from and rely on health centers for their care. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.07.2017	The Bronx - Yesterday, Congressman Serrano joined the No Cuts Coalition, an alliance of 40 local community organizations, to raise awareness and rally support for efforts to fight President Trump’s proposed $7 billion cuts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which funds important agencies like NYCHA; and plans to eliminate the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) program, which over the years has invested billions in community development initiatives in the Bronx. As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, which funds these programs, Congressman Serrano talked about his efforts in Congress to protect this vital funding for areas like the Bronx. Organization representatives and local residents discussed how the proposed cuts will impact their lives/livelihoods. Members of the No Cuts Coalition, include: Community Voices Heard, DC 37; Laborers Local 79; Mother's on the Move; CASA-New Settlement; Banana Kelly; New York Housing Conference; NYS Tenants and Neighbors; Bronx South CCOP-NYCHA; and the Center for Popular Democracy. “Trump’s proposal to cut funding for our nation’s public housing and economic development programs would have a terrible impact in underserved communities in the Bronx and the rest of New York. NYCHA, affordable housing, and economic development programs are already facing serious fiscal challenges; these cuts will only make their work harder and put more strain on already struggling working families. We have to keep fighting to stop Trump’s efforts to gut HUD, the CDFI program, and other important initiatives in order to increase defense spending to an unnecessary level. We need to tell the Trump Administration and Republicans in Congress that national security is more than guns and tanks. As a senior member of the Appropriations committee, I will do everything in my power to stop these cuts in Congress and continue defending hard working Bronxites and New Yorkers from the Trump Administration,” said Congressman Serrano. CAPTION: Congressman Serrano joined the No Cuts Coalition, an alliance of 40 local community organizations, to raise awareness and rally support for efforts to fight President Trump’s proposed $7 billion cuts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD plans to eliminate the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) program Thursday evening. (July 6, 2017) ###
07.06.2017	The Bronx – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the shooting of NYPD Officer Miositis Familia while serving on duty in the Bronx yesterday: “Yesterday, we lost one more innocent victim to a gun related crime in the Bronx. Miosotis was not only a neighbor and fellow New Yorker, she was one of the many valiant NYPD officers who put their lives on the line every day to keep our streets safe. Today, let us all unite in thanking her for her service and sacrifice and keep her family and loved ones in our thoughts and prayers. This vicious crime is also one more example of why we need to do more to reduce gun violence. As Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, I will continue working to ensure the key agencies involved in reducing gun violence have the funding they need to keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
06.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15), released the following statement in response to the shooting that took place inside Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center in the Bronx where a gunman opened fire, wounding several people: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families as well as with all the staff and patients of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital in this difficult moment. My heart goes out to all those who have been injured or worse. This incident is being investigated by the NYPD, and they are being helped by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), and I know that they will determine how this individual came to possess such a dangerous weapon,” said Congressman Serrano. “As this horrific incident is investigated, we are once again left to ask ourselves why. Our nation needs to have a serious conversation on gun violence, and on common sense reforms that will help prevent incidents like this. As senior member of an Appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over this matter through funding for key agencies involved in reducing gun violence, I will continue working to ensure agencies like the ATF has the funding it needs to continue keeping our communities safe,” he added. ###
06.29.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today voted against two anti-immigrant bills -- H.R. 3003, the "No Sanctuary for Criminals Act"; and H.R. 3004, “Kate’s Law” --and released the following statement: “These bills are just two more pieces of President Trump’s anti-immigrant mass deportation agenda. The reality is that these bills, if they become law, will actually undermine local law enforcement and our national security. By requiring cities and states to cooperate with federal immigration enforcement activities or otherwise lose federal funding for important law enforcement and homeland security programs, H.R. 3003 coerces local authorities to become an immigration enforcement arm of the federal government. That bill also greatly expands the federal government’s capacity to detain immigrants indefinitely during removal proceedings. H.R. 3004 would broadly attempt to further criminalize and stigmatize all undocumented immigrants, even allowing for the prosecution of someone who is seeking asylum. By expanding federal authorities reach and prohibiting policies to build trust, local immigrant residents will be less likely to cooperate with the authorities, making our communities less safe. These bills demonize immigrants and undermine public safety. That is why I opposed them in the House, and ask that my colleagues in the Senate do the same.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
06.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s decision to lift significant parts of the injunction against President Trump’s Muslim and Refugee ban, and allowing much of this executive order to be implemented while it decides its legality: “I am deeply disappointed in the Supreme Court’s decision to allow President Trump’s Muslim ban to take effect in part while its constitutionality is still being debated. As I’ve said before, this ban is unconstitutional, discriminatory, and unfair. It illegally targets religious minorities, sending the wrong message to our partners in the fight against terrorism and to the entire world in terms of what our values are. It also threatens to foster more terrorist attacks by giving ISIS recruiters something that feeds right into their narrative to recruit followers. I trust the Supreme Court will come to the same conclusion when it hears this case. And I very much hope it ultimately makes the right decision for our nation, our people, and the countless victims that will be harmed by this misguided policy. ###
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) announced a total of $11,547,456 grant funding through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Center Program to several health centers in the South Bronx. Union Community Health Center received $1,055,094; Tremont Commonwealth Council Vip Inc. received $704,000; Morris Heights Health Center received $6,762,957; Urban Health Plan received $1,209,017; and Bronx Community Health Network received $1,416,388. “Health Centers are an integral part of our health care delivery system in the Bronx and help meet the growing demand for primary care,” said Congressman Serrano. “These five grantees have a history of providing excellent care to the most vulnerable patients in our community. Today’s funding announcement will allow them to continue providing the vital services that so many families and individuals rely upon to stay healthy and happy.” The Health Center Program provides critical funding for community-based health clinics that provide a full range of integrated care services- from medical and dental care to case management and transportation services- for low-income individuals, regardless of their ability to pay. More than 24 million Americans across the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the territories rely on health centers for their care. ###
06.19.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Reps. Jose Serrano (D-NY) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) introduced HR 2911, to establish a National Smithsonian American Latino Museum honoring the contributions of Latinos to our country. Through bipartisan efforts in the House and Senate, this bill aims to initiate the process to identify a location and adequate source of funding to make this museum a reality. The museum will also serve to educate all generation who will see Latinos’ impact on our nation and how they have helped enrich our country. Statement by Serrano: “Latinos deserve a place in Washington that honors all their sacrifices and contributions to this nation since its founding. With this legislation we are one step closer to making the American Latino museum a reality by identifying potential sites and an appropriate funding mechanism. I am proud to work with Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, Senator Menendez, and Senator Cornyn on this bipartisan effort to honor Latinos’ diverse contributions to the American story,” said Congressman Serrano. Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “Latinos have made incredible contributions to our nation in every field and endeavor. I’m joining with my colleagues, Representative Jose Serrano, and Senators Bob Menendez and John Cornyn to help ensure that those contributions are honored and recognized in a National American Latino Museum. This bill is the first step in the right direction to make this museum a reality. Together, in a united bi-partisan manner we will make this happen. As the first Hispanic woman to serve in the Florida House, Florida Senate, and Congress, I know that while we have made great strides, much more is left to be done and it us up to us to show young Latinos and Latinas that they can achieve great things with hard work and dedication.” ###
06.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the plebiscite carried out yesterday, June 11, in Puerto Rico: “The results of the plebiscite held yesterday in Puerto Rico, combined with those of the 2012 referendum where voters overwhelmingly voted in favor of ending Puerto Rico’s territorial status, show that a vast majority of the population wants change. While there was a lower voter turnout in this referendum when compared to past elections and referenda on the island, let’s be clear, voter turnout was in part lower because of an unnecessary and cynical boycott. Now Puerto Rico needs to come before Congress to ask for a change in status. In democracies, the will of the voters is respected, and Congress has a duty to listen and act upon these results so that Puerto Rico can be decolonized once and for all. As I have said in the past, after hundreds of years as a territory, the United States owes the island and its millions of American citizens that much.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
06.12.2017	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions cancelling for the second time scheduled testimony to the Appropriations Committee: “We are disappointed Attorney General Sessions has cancelled - for the second time - his scheduled testimony to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees. Instead of two hearings open to the public, the Attorney General will participate in only one with the Senate Intelligence Committee, which may be closed to the public. "This flies in the face of any standards of transparency, openness, and good government. The Attorney General should engage in open, public questioning at the Appropriations Committee like every other cabinet secretary does. "The American public deserves to hear from Attorney General Sessions not just about potential impropriety surrounding the 2016 presidential campaign, but also about the Department of Justice's 2018 budget request, which would substantially cut support for state and local law enforcement while also reducing funding for operating expenses of the FBI." ###
06.08.2017	Washington, DC – US Congressman José E. Serrano today encouraged Puerto Ricans to participate in the plebiscite that Puerto Rico will hold next Sunday June 11: “119 years as a territory is more than enough. It is time for Congress to address and solve Puerto Rico’s status once and for all. The plebiscite this upcoming Sunday will serve as an opportunity to reopen the dialogue in Congress and start a conversation about Puerto Rico’s future. I encourage everyone on the island to participate in the plebiscite and make their voices heard,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) along with Reps. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Jose E. Serrano (D-NY), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) released the following statement after introducing the West African Ebola Relief Act (H.R. 2597). The bill would extend Temporary Protected Status to individuals from Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea, who had their status terminated this weekend. Earlier this month, forty-five Members of Congress wrote to Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, urging him to redesignate and extend Temporary Protected Status for Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea for eighteen months. This bill legislates the same request. “Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea are still recovering for the Ebola crisis, which devastated public infrastructure and exacerbated health challenges,” Rep. Ellison said. “A true recovery will take years. Now is not the time to force members of our community to return to vulnerable countries already struggling to provide for its citizens.” “As Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone continue to recover from the Ebola epidemic, they are not yet in a position to receive those foreign nationals currently in the United States,” said Congressman Payne, Jr. “Allowing nationals from Ebola-affected countries to temporarily remain in the United States will not only ease the burdens on West African nations as they rebuild, it will protect those nationals from the unstable conditions that persist in their home countries. Temporary Protected Status is a humane and necessary measure in the aftermath of the Ebola crisis; the Department of Homeland Security’s refusal to extend it is simply irresponsible. I’m proud that my district includes a large West African community, and I will continue to fight to make sure they have the necessary support.” “Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone are still rebuilding after the recent Ebola crisis. An extension of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) is necessary to allow nationals from these three nations to remain safe in the United States and to allow the countries affected by the crisis to rebuild their health care infrastructure and economies. I am disappointed that the Department of Homeland Security failed to act on this pressing issue, but I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the West African Ebola Relief Act, which would mandate the extension of TPS to these countries immediately,” said Rep. Serrano. "The people of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone have worked tirelessly to fight the Ebola epidemic. We must continue to support those efforts by allowing their citizens who are here in the United States to work and send home remittances to support the recovery. By enacting the West African Ebola Relief Act, we will contribute to that critical effort," Rep. Clarke said. ###
05.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano rejected President Trump’s full budget proposal: “In my more than 25 years serving in Congress, I have never seen a budget as unbalanced and harmful as the one President Trump has proposed. It slashes domestic spending and the social safety net - greatly harming the poor, the disabled, and working families. Meanwhile, it increases spending in our military and favors wealthy individuals and powerful corporations. This will make it harder to succeed for tens of millions of American workers, businesses, families, and students. Ironically, this budget cuts programs that provide jobs and economic opportunities even in areas that overwhelmingly voted for Donald Trump. “As the Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, I am deeply disappointed at the budget requests for the agencies under this jurisdiction. The cuts at the Department of Justice undermine our nation’s commitment to justice and accountability under the law. The cuts at the Department of Commerce hurt programs that promote jobs and economic development in some of our nation’s most vulnerable communities and industries. And the cuts to our sciences agencies, including a ten percent cut to the National Science Foundation, undermine America’s capacity to respond to a number of scientific challenges and maintain our competitive research edge. This is deeply troubling. “This budget is a betrayal of the American people and I hope Republicans in Congress join Democrats in opposing the absurd deep cuts it proposes in essentially every area. It also creates a false tradeoff between our national security and other national social, economic, and infrastructure needs. There is no reason whatsoever why we should be shifting $54 billion in our discretionary budget to increase defense spending. Ironically, this approach will only make our nation less secure, not more. Our nation’s security depends on much more than our military. It depends on Americans’ access to quality education and health care, economic opportunity, and the capacity to be successful.”
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano rejected President Trump’s full budget proposal. “In my more than 25 years serving in Congress, I have never seen a budget as unbalanced and harmful as the one President Trump has proposed. It slashes domestic spending and the social safety net - greatly harming the poor, the disabled, and working families. Meanwhile, it increases spending in our military and favors wealthy individuals and powerful corporations. This will make it harder to succeed for tens of millions of American workers, businesses, families, and students. Ironically, this budget cuts programs that provide jobs and economic opportunities even in areas that overwhelmingly voted for Donald Trump. “As the Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, I am deeply disappointed at the budget requests for the agencies under this jurisdiction. The cuts at the Department of Justice undermine our nation’s commitment to justice and accountability under the law. The cuts at the Department of Commerce hurt programs that promote jobs and economic development in some of our nation’s most vulnerable communities and industries. And the cuts to our sciences agencies, including a ten percent cut to the National Science Foundation, undermine America’s capacity to respond to a number of scientific challenges and maintain our competitive research edge. This is deeply troubling. “This budget is a betrayal of the American people and I hope Republicans in Congress join Democrats in opposing the absurd deep cuts it proposes in essentially every area. It also creates a false tradeoff between our national security and other national social, economic, and infrastructure needs. There is no reason whatsoever why we should be shifting $54 billion in our discretionary budget to increase defense spending. Ironically, this approach will only make our nation less secure, not more. Our nation’s security depends on much more than our military. It depends on Americans’ access to quality education and health care, economic opportunity, and the capacity to be successful.” ###
05.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today introduced the Incentivize Growth Now In Tomorrow's Entrepreneurs (IGNITE) Act, legislation to facilitate access to credit for entrepreneurs launching small businesses of less than 50 employees. The IGNITE act would allow potential entrepreneurs, who often have to rely on credit cards and other risky credit tools, to set aside up to $10,000 (or the amount of compensation includible in the taxpayer's gross income for the taxable year) in tax free savings accounts for start-up expenses. This will allow them to launch their business—which is in itself a risky endeavor—without having to resort to extreme debt. This will serve as an incentive for people to launch their businesses and thereby increase the likelihood of success for start-ups. “Small businesses are the back-bone of the U.S. economy. In the Bronx, they serve as the path to greater economic and professional opportunities for many of my constituents and create thousands of jobs. Unfortunately, too often people refrain from launching their own business for fear of the economic risk it entails and/or lack of access to capital. We need to provide entrepreneurs with the tools and incentives they need to launch and grow their business. The IGNITE Act will help entrepreneurs in the Bronx, New York, and all across America to launch and grow their businesses successfully, and improve our local and national economy by creating new jobs,” said Congressman Serrano. Most businesses in the Bronx would qualify for this tax credit- according to statistics, more than 80 percent of businesses in the Bronx have less than 10 employees. ###
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano reintroduced the "Child Citizen Protection Act,” legislation that restores discretion to immigration judges in cases where the best interest and well-being of a child that is a United States citizen will be impacted by the deportation of their immigrant parents or other family relatives. This legislation will help protect children, who are particularly vulnerable, from unwarranted and damaging separation from their parents or caregivers. “Citizen children should not have to suffer the impact of a federal immigration system that is flawed and too rigid. Currently, the law does not allow judges presiding over immigration cases to use their discretion in deportation and removal cases where a child's well-being will be adversely impacted. A judge often has no choice but to order permanent removal of undocumented parents from the United States. "The impact of these decisions are severe- forcing citizen children to end up in de facto deportation in order to remain with their parents, or requiring them to find another responsible caregiver in the United States to help take care of them. Than can sometimes include through the foster care system. "That is wrong. These are children who are U.S. citizens and we have a responsibility to act in their best interest. This legislation would change this rule and trust judges' capacity to make the right decision, allowing them to use their judgement in this type of immigration cases. Despite the current political climate, I am hopeful that at least some of my colleagues across the aisle will join me in supporting this common sense fix, which only helps protect children from undue and potentially life-changing stress and hardship,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Department of Commerce Census Bureau, today released the following statement in response to Census Director John H. Thompson’s resignation from his position and retirement: “Census Director John H. Thompson’s retirement is a loss to the Department of Commerce and the U.S. Census Bureau. I am thankful for his more than 30 years of public service. This loss comes at a critical time for the Census Bureau as we ramp up to the 2020 Census and we need to ensure that Director Thompson’s replacement is as experienced and committed to fulfilling the Bureau’s mission as Director Thompson was. The 2020 Census will have immense policy implications and we need robust funding for the Census Bureau in order to have to a successful and accurate operation in 2020. Without strong leadership at the Bureau, this vital mission will be imperiled. As Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee I look forward to discussing this urgent issue with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross when he comes to testify before the committee.” ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) issued the following statement regarding today’s vote on Congressional Republican’s dangerous American Health Care Act (AHCA) proposal in the U.S. House of Representatives. “In my 27 years as a member of the House of Representatives, I have never seen such a blatantly shameless attempt to rip away health care coverage for more than 24 million Americans- including hundreds of thousands of my constituents- and inflict devastating harm to our economy. Today’s vote on the AHCA was just that. “Underfunding ineffective high-risk pools, gutting patient protections for pre-existing conditions, and raiding the Medicare Trust Fund, all in order to give the wealthiest Americans a tax cut, is not the answer. An estimated 315,200 Bronxites in my District live with pre-existing conditions. Where will these individuals turn when they lose access to Medicaid expansion or have their individual coverage cancelled because insurance companies are once again allowed to discriminate against them? Where will individuals with HIV/AIDS turn for their anti-retroviral therapy? Where will pediatric cancer patients turn for chemotherapy and radiation treatment? Where will diabetics turn to access glucose monitors or insulin to maintain healthy blood glucose levels? These are the real-life consequences of today’s vote. “In addition to the irresponsibility of this bill, the process that brought this vote to the floor today is beneath the U.S. House of Representatives. The committees of jurisdiction did not conduct one hearing or markup on today’s proposal. The Congressional Budget Office was not allowed to fully complete its score to help us understand the impact of this bill on the public and the economy. Democrats were completely shut out of the process to help craft a proposal that will affect tens of millions of Americans. It appears that Republicans are rushing this bill through the House because they want to cover up the negative impact that it has on our constituents. The American people need and deserve better. “We all want to provide better access to high-quality, affordable coverage. But this bill does just the opposite. Republicans should be working with Democrats to build upon the many successes of the Affordable Care Act so that millions more are able to gain access to the care they need and deserve. This proposal is a recipe for disaster, and it is my sincere hope that Republicans will soon come to their senses in realizing the potentially irreversible impact it could have on our country.” ###
05.03.2017	Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano today applauded the actions taken by Governor Ricardo Rosselló and the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico for taking the formal steps to restructure Puerto Rico’s debt under Title III of PROMESA: “After months of trying to negotiate in good faith, the government of Puerto Rico has not been able to reach an agreement with its creditors. The actions taken today by the Oversight Board under Title III of PROMESA will allow Puerto Rico to restructure its debt under the auspices of a federal judge in a bankruptcy-like setting. This is the crucial step in allowing the island to get out from under the mountain of debt it has accrued, and move towards sustainable economic growth. This mechanism was the primary reason so many Democrats voted for this bill in Congress last year- and I believe it’s use was urgently necessary to allow the island to recover. The only ones suffering the effects of not being able reach an agreement to successfully tackle the debt and economic crises are the people of Puerto Rico. I applaud both the Governor and the Board for recognizing the need for immediate action- the people of Puerto Rico were unable to wait any longer.” ###
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – At a Forum of Puerto Rico’s Ongoing Financial and Humanitarian Crisis convened by the House Natural Resources Committee and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Congressman José E. Serrano renewed his call for an audit of Puerto Rico’s debt, as stipulated in an amendment he successfully included in the PROMESA Act: “An amendment I introduced to the PROMESA Act stipulates that the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico could not interfere with any work done by the PR Audit Commission. We’ve reached a point where it is time to call publicly for an audit of the debt. People need and deserve to know how this debt was incurred, how it accumulated over the decades, and for what purpose it was issued. As long as those questions remain, we will have uncertainty and misgivings about how this situation came about and the process to address it. Today, I am publicly and officially asking for a full audit of the debt so that the people of Puerto Rico understand how Puerto Rico ended up in the current financial crisis. It is the right thing to do,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
05.03.2017	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Chairman Culberson, and I would like to join you in welcoming the Director of the U.S. Census Bureau, the Honorable John H. Thompson, the Chief Information Officer of the U.S. Census Bureau, Kevin Smith, the Director of Strategic Issues of the Government Accountability Office, Robert Goldenkoff, and the Director of Information Technology of the Government Accountability Office, David Powner, to the subcommittee. I am pleased to return as the Ranking Member of this subcommittee at a crucial time for the Census Bureau. Preparations for the 2020 Census are at a critical juncture, and there is a serious need to ensure sufficient funding both for the decennial census and for the many other surveys and products that the Bureau undertakes. I believe all of us here can agree on the vitally important role that the 2020 Census and the American Community Survey play in producing reliable information on housing, demographics, and socio-economic conditions in our country, and I believe that it is this Committee’s job to provide the Bureau with the resources to do its job. Since 1790, a national census of our population has been conducted every 10 years, as required by the U.S. Constitution. With each census, additional information has been incorporated to help us better understand and address the challenges we face as a nation. Incorrect census data has serious and lasting implications for our communities. We have an obligation to ensure that the Bureau is able to accurately account for every household and that all of the collected statistical data remains properly secured. The President’s ‘skinny’ budget for fiscal year 2018 includes $1.5 billion dollars for the Census Bureau. My concern is that this funding level falls short of what is needed to help ramp-up ongoing preparations for both the 2020 Census and the other important surveys conducted by the Bureau, as the requested total is actually $133.6 million below President Obama’s request for the previous fiscal year. Normally we would expect to see significant increases in the Bureau’s budget at this point in the decade, as we get closer to the decennial census. Underfunding and delays in enactment of the Bureau’s budget have already had consequences. For example, last year the Bureau discontinued plans for the 2017 Puerto Rico census test. The overall funding track for the Bureau is well behind the levels previously appropriated for the 2000 and 2010 Censuses, and I am seriously concerned that the Bureau won’t be able to match the historic levels of compliance from the 2010 Census. I am aware that the Bureau intends to save money through several innovations, including by implementing an online self-response option. Although the internet self-response surveys have a Spanish language option, we must prioritize the field testing of a full Spanish language survey prior to the 2020 Census. It is also important to test non-traditional addresses located in Puerto Rico and on tribal reservations. I am also concerned about the steps needed to reduce the anxiety that generally arises throughout minority communities during the census count. These feelings of distrust are at an all-time high as the new President continues to use anti-immigrant rhetoric. In prior cycles, the Bureau conducted significant media and partnership campaigns to help participants understand the confidentiality of the surveys and to increase trust and participation in this important process. However, if we continue limiting the Bureau’s resources, we run the risk of facing similar challenges to those of the 1990 Census- which had an extremely high non-response rate. Additionally, migrating from traditional methods of paper survey collections to an internet based model, without robust cybersecurity funding, will ultimately put respondents at risk, should they opt to use technology. In a world with growing cybersecurity threats, the collection and protection of personal information online should be prioritized. We should continue to safeguard individuals using electronic devices and ensure the public’s trust that their confidential response data will remain private. Thank you once again to both the Census Bureau and to GAO for testifying today, and I look forward to discussing these important issues with all of you. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the Appropriations Committee.
05.01.2017	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman José Serrano, Ranking Democrat on the Commerce Justice Science Subcommittee, today announced the Omnibus Appropriations Act contains a total of $68 million to reimburse local law enforcement agencies for their supportive work to protect President Trump and his family. “Protecting the President of the United States and the First Family is primarily a federal responsibility, and their residence in one of the most densely populated areas in the world presents huge and unprecedented challenges,” said Lowey. “NYPD and other law enforcement agencies have performed admirably, in coordination with the U.S. Secret Service. I am very pleased New York taxpayers will not be on the hook for these critical and necessary expenses.” "This is an important victory for fairness. New York City should not be forced to bear the unprecedented costs of protecting the President and his family,” said Serrano. “This funding reimburses the City for both the costs of securing the President and his family prior to, and since, Inauguration Day. The money helps make New York City whole, and ensures that the City does not have to reduce resources elsewhere in order to protect Trump Tower. As a longtime Member of the Appropriations Committee from New York City and the Ranking Democrat on the CJS Subcommittee, where some of this money is appropriated, I want to thank my Full Committee Ranking Member, Nita Lowey for her hard work on this issue. I also want to thank my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for agreeing to help New York City address these unique circumstances." Of the $68 million, $20 million is dedicated to reimbursing local law enforcement agencies for costs incurred protecting the President-elect from the time of the 2016 election through inauguration Day. This funding will be awarded through the Byrne-JAG program at the U.S. Department of Justice. The remainder - $41 million - will be provided through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Local law enforcement agencies that incurred such costs after President Trump’s inauguration may submit claims for reimbursement of manpower costs. When added to $7 million secured in the FY2017 Continuing Resolution enacted in December, this brings total funding to $68 million to help defray manpower costs expended helping the U.S. Secret Service in fulfillment of the federal responsibility of protecting the President-elect, and after inauguration, the President. ###
05.01.2017	Washington, DC –Congressman Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Subcommittee today released the following statement highlighting a number of important provisions included and adequately funded in the final bill: “This is a budget represents numerous accomplishments that Democrats can be content with. As the Ranking Member of the CJS Subcommittee, there are many good things to applaud and highlight in the final CJS bill. First and foremost, we successfully included a provision to reimburse New York City for the costs of protecting President Trump and his family between Election Day and Inauguration Day. This is an important victory for fairness. New York City should not be forced to bear the unprecedented costs and divert resources from elsewhere to protect the President and his family. “In the area of commerce and small businesses, we successfully included an increase in funding for the Minority Business Development Administration, which President Trump wanted to cut significantly. In the area of justice, we preserved funding for the Legal Services Corporation and rejected efforts to eliminate this important program. We also increased funding in the Department of Justice for Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and appropriated significant funding at the agency to support the Second Chance Act, improve community-police relations, and focus on the federal firearms background check system. Additionally, we were able to remove a number of controversial gun riders which would have impeded law enforcement safety efforts. “Lastly, in the area of science, we successfully increased funding for NASA programs, and preserved funding for climate change research at the NOAA, an area that the current administration is targeting. We also successfully established a dedicated funding stream within the National Science Foundation (NSF) to provide Hispanic Serving Institutions with funding to increase the number of Latinos in STEM fields. “These are all programs that will have a positive impact on our nation.” ###
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen José E. Serrano (NY-15) and Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) sent a letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos and issued the following statement in response to the Department of Education’s recent decision to deny funding for Upward Bound TRIO grant proposals submitted by Fordham University and Columbia University in New York City. Upward Bound is a program that helps low-income high school students prepare to enter and successfully complete college. Rep. Serrano said: “The Upward Bound is critical for students in the Bronx, and the rejection of these applications will mean less opportunities for fewer students. The program is a key driver in helping low-income and potential first generation college students successfully enter and complete college. The grounds under which the U.S. Department of Education rejected the applications from Fordham University and Columbia University is disturbing and lacks common sense. Our students deserve better. At the very least these New York institutions –and the students they serve- deserve to have their applications reconsidered based on their merits.” “Upward Bound is an essential educational resource for some of our most vulnerable students, helping them graduate from high school in a timely fashion and putting them on a path to higher education,” said Rep. Espaillat. “It is unfortunate that Secretary DeVos rejected funding for Upward Bound programs at Fordham University and Columbia University that have collectively provided New York students invaluable educational services for decades due to a minor typographical error and a spacing issue.” In the letter sent to Secretary DeVos, Reps. Serrano and Espaillat express concerns on the misguided decisions, which were not based on the merits of either projects’ proposal and the adverse impact to students eligible for the Upward Bound Program in New York City. Dozens of college applications from all around the country for grants, valued at millions of dollars, have been rejected by the U.S. Department of Education for trivial matters related to the application’s format, like font size/type and spacing, or typographical errors, rather than content or merit. If these universities’ Upward Bound Programs fail to receive funding, thousands of low-income and first-generation students in New York City and beyond will not be able to participate in the program this year, further putting their academic achievement at peril and threatening successful completion of secondary education. # # #
04.12.2017	The Bronx – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded a $355,000 grant to Bronx AIDS Services for an HIV Prevention project. “Despite all the progress that has been made in recent decades, HIV/AIDS continues to be an issue that disproportionately affects urban areas, like the Bronx. This grant will help Bronx AIDS Services expand and improve their HIV prevention efforts geared toward young gay men of color, which in turn will reduce the incidence of this deadly disease in the Bronx. With these types of projects and efforts, we are educating young people on how to successfully prevent transmission and work towards the elimination of HIV/AIDS once and for all,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
04.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today introduced the Sewage Sludge in Food Production Consumer Notification Act, legislation to ensure that food raised or grown on lands where sewage sludge was applied is labeled accordingly. Specifically, the bill amends the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the relevant egg, meat, and poultry inspection laws to ensure that consumers are informed when food is produced from crops, livestock, or poultry raised on land where sewage sludge was applied. Sewage sludge is composed of materials discharged from sewage treatment plants consisting of residential, industrial, hospital wastes, and runoff from streets/farmlands. Since the 1990s, numerous public and private entities have relied on selling this type of waste as a fertilizer as a way to get rid of municipal wastewater treatment plants byproducts. Despite the fact that this waste contains varying degrees of thousands of pathogens, heavy metals, organic chemicals such as PCBs, industrial solvents, asbestos, and radioactive wastes, federal regulations surrounding their use are inadequate. This includes how food grown or raised using this type of waste is labeled. “Tons of sewage sludge waste are being used as an agricultural fertilizer on American farmlands every year. This waste contains thousands of pathogens and other toxic byproducts that in turn end up on people’s food and could have potential adverse effects on their health and well-being,” said Congressman Serrano. “Americans deserve to know where and how their food was grown or raised so they can make informed decisions about what they consume and put in their bodies. The Sewage Sludge in Food Production Consumer Notification Act would require the food industry to label food raised using this type of fertilizer. If this type of fertilizer is used to grow food, the least the government and regulators can do is require the food industry to let people know.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the most senior Member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
04.03.2017	The Bronx - Last Friday, Congressman José E. Serrano hosted the Women’s History Month Celebration in the Bronx. This year’s event focused on Women Artists Fighting for Justice and honored the following female artists and activists: Noelle Santos, Founder, The Lit Bar (Bookstore); Ana “Rokafella” Garcia, Renowned bgirl dancer; Holly Block, Executive Director, The Bronx Museum of the Arts; Deirdre Scott, Former Executive Director, The Bronx Council on the Arts; and Vivian Bonnie Wright, Founder of the Afrikan Women’s Repertory. The event was co-sponsored by NYC Council Speaker Melissa Mark Viverito, Deputy Bronx Borough President Aurelia Greene, Councilwoman Vanessa Gibson, Councilwoman Annabelle Palma, Assemblywoman Latoya Joyner, and Assemblywoman Carmen E. Arroyo. “Women are making a difference in every realm of public life in the Bronx. This year we decided to honor women artists and activists whose work and contributions are having a great impact in our community by promoting the arts and raising awareness about its importance to the Bronx. The five outstanding leaders selected to be honored at this year’s event are doing groundbreaking work that deserves our recognition and appreciation during Women’s History Month and all year round.” ###
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Reps. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), José E. Serrano (NY-15), and Don Beyer (VA-08) introduced new legislation aimed at protecting sensitive locations during immigration enforcement efforts. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act will prohibit immigration enforcement, including arrests, interviews, searches, and surveillance at "sensitive locations" that include areas such as medical or health care facilities, public and private schools, places of worship, courthouses, DMV offices, and locations that provide emergency services. “Our intent with the Protecting Sensitive Locations Act is to prohibit law enforcement from making arrests and detentions at highly sensitive locations, such as places of worship, schools, hospitals and public locations,” said Rep. Espaillat. “Individuals should not be subject to arrest while mourning loved ones at funerals or while dropping off their child for school. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act holds law enforcement accountable and ensures that they adhere to the letter of the law.” “Our immigrant communities deserve to be safe and to feel secure when accessing justice, seeking education and health care, or practicing their faith,” said Rep. Bonamici. “Recent ICE action has been aggressive and mean-spirited, and it does not improve the safety of our communities. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act will keep ICE out of sensitive locations and make sure immigrant families can take their kids to school, go to worship, or seek protective orders and police assistance. This legislation is desperately needed.” “In recent weeks, my office has received deeply troubling reports of ICE agents at sensitive and important locations in my district. ICE activities at these vital, essential locations create a disincentive for immigrants, even those who are documented, from doing things like accessing basic benefits, reporting crimes, and ensuring their health and well- being. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act will clearly define and expand the list of sites that currently qualify as sensitive locations, thus ensuring that they are off-limits to ICE other than in very limited circumstances – in my district and throughout the nation. It will also require a report on any type of immigration enforcement activities that take place at sensitive locations under these exceptions. President Trump has tried to intimidate communities by targeting and deporting immigrants in an indiscriminate manner but this bill will help codify common-sense limits on ICE enforcement activities and protect vulnerable immigrants’ basic rights,” said Rep. Serrano. “The aggressive implementation of President Trump’s xenophobic and anti-immigrant policies by ICE creates fear and anxiety in our communities,” said Rep. Beyer. “Children attending school, patients in need of medical care, and families going to church should not stay away in fear that those locations could be the target of ICE raids. I am proud to introduce today’s bill that would restrict ICE activity at these sensitive locations.” Watch video from today’s press conference here. # # #
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) issued the following statement on the humiliating defeat of Trumpcare in the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon after Speaker Ryan decided to pull the Affordable Care Act replacement bill from the floor and not bring it up for a vote: “As it turns out, the President is not quite the skilled negotiator that he claims to be and Republicans can’t even get their act together to agree on how to repeal and replace Obamacare – their stated #1 goal now that they control both chambers of Congress and the Presidency. Thankfully, millions of Americans – including nearly 130,000 Bronxites in my District – can breathe a sigh a relief that their health care will not be taken away. “Trumpcare failed the basic tests of humanity, morality, and good government. This bill would have kicked 24 million people out of their health care plans. It would have taken away guaranteed access to essential health care services. It would have unfairly penalized older and sicker Americans by allowing insurance companies to charge them more for care. It would have eliminated many of the hard fought consumer protections that give Americans the peace of mind that they will have access to the quality health care that they pay for. “This bill was heartless, cruel, and a prescription for disaster. We should be glad that it got nowhere. Americans don’t want to lose coverage. We don’t want to give away yet another giant tax break to the wealthiest Americans. We don’t want to see our friends and our family members suffer its consequences because Republicans in Congress pretend that tax cuts and deregulation of insurance companies equal expanded access to affordable health care. “While I hope this abject failure to gather enough support even among its own rank and file will show that Republicans should end these insane efforts to repeal Obamacare, all of us must remain vigilant. I have no doubt that we will soon face further efforts to repeal or at the very least undermine Obamacare through other means, and to hurt American working families in other ways. I remain ready to continue fighting against these efforts on behalf of my constituents and our country.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the Appropriations Committee and the most senior Member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
03.24.2017	Washington, DC - As the nation continues celebrating Women’s History Month, Congressman José E. Serrano today introduced legislation that would expand opportunities for women nationwide to access capital and technical assistance to start or grow a small business. The Expanding Small Business Opportunities to All Women Act ensures that economically disadvantaged, unmarried women are included in planning efforts made by the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Women’s Business Centers. The legislation accomplishes this by expanding SBA evaluation criteria for Women’s Business Center applicants to include training and services for economically disadvantaged, unmarried women. This bill also seeks to address the gender gap in financing by providing women-owned businesses with greater access to capital funding. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Bronx County has the highest percentage of women-owned businesses (50.6 percent) in the nation among the 50 largest counties. “Unmarried entrepreneurs face higher barriers to starting, maintaining, and growing a business,” said Congressman Serrano. “The Expanding Small Business Opportunities to All Women Act will ensure that Women’s Business Centers take these challenges into consideration when developing plans to assist communities. We must ensure Women’s Business Centers continue helping ‘level the playing field’ for all women entrepreneurs.” Women’s Business Centers are a national network of 100 centers throughout the U.S. and its territories that help women start and grow small businesses. ###
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today introduced the Protecting Our Kids Act of 2017, which would direct the Food and Drug Administration to require pharmaceutical companies to include dosage delivery devices, commonly known as flow restrictors, when selling over-the-counter medicines. “More than 70,000 children end up in the emergency room (ER) every year as a result of an unintentional medication overdose. These accidents are easily avoidable. By simply requiring pharmaceutical companies to include flow restrictors with over-the-counter medicines, the Protecting Our Kids Act of 2017 will help prevent tens of thousands of accidents every year. It will also make the lives of children and parents easier when taking or dispensing medicine to treat an illness or condition. This legislation will help keep our children safe by ensuring they receive the appropriate dose of medicine while at the same time reducing our healthcare costs,” said Congressman Serrano. Flow restrictors are used voluntarily in the drug industry in infants’ and children’s acetaminophen products. A syringe is inserted into a small opening (a self-sealing cap) and the exact amount of medicine required is withdrawn, rather than relying on a cup or spoon that could lead to error. The device also slows the flow of medicine, making it more difficult for a child to ingest a dangerous amount. The FDA has indicated its support of flow restrictors, but they have not been required by law. ###
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Subcommittee, today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s budget blueprint: “President Trump’s budget blueprint is an insult to working families and a blow to the future of America. Trump claims he is “draining the swamp” of special interests and cutting wasteful government spending; what he is really doing is disinvesting in the most important programs for our economic competitiveness, the well-being of all Americans, and continued global leadership. He claims increases are needed for defense spending and a needless and expensive border wall – neither of which have any substantive justification. “I am particularly concerned that this budget proposal guts a number of areas that have I fought for and that have been important for me as a member of Congress for decades. It harms the environment by gutting funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by $2.5 billion or 31%. It weakens workforce protections by cutting funding for the Department of Labor by $2.5 billion or 21%, and hurts underserved communities by reducing access to affordable housing and eliminating funding for community programs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), a cut of $6.2 billion, or 13%. The Trump budget cuts these and other programs that are crucial for areas like the Bronx. “As the Ranking Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, I am disturbed by the fact that this proposal hurts a number of programs that are critical for a robust economy and the protection of civil rights. The proposal for the Department of Commerce eliminates funding for key programs that help businesses and manufacturers to succeed and expand, including the Minority Business Development Administration, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program, and the Economic Development Administration. The proposal would also end funding for the Legal Services Corporation, which provides grants to local legal services providers who ensure that low-income individuals and families can assert their legal and constitutional rights. These proposals are not based in reality- in many cases, Republicans in Congress support these programs because of the positive impact that they have in both red and blue states. “To claim that you will “Make America Great Again” while ransacking the programs that invest in America’s competitiveness and leadership, spur scientific innovation, create jobs, protect our environment, and make quality education accessible for our future generations is an oxymoron. Trump’s proposal is dangerous in the short and long term, which is why I will do everything I can to prevent such extreme cuts from taking place. We need to maintain healthy levels of funding to guarantee our government is able to continue America’s global leadership.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the most senior Member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
03.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) issued the following statement regarding the release of Congressional Republicans’ plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The “American Health Care Act” will essentially rip coverage from away from over 20 million Americans, including nearly 400,000 individuals in the Bronx. “I am at a loss for words by Congressional Republicans’ plan to repeal and ‘replace’ the ACA. The President and Congressional Republicans promised that under their plan all Americans would have access to better, more affordable coverage, but the American Health Care Act does exactly the opposite. The plan will lead to chaos in the individual health insurance marketplace and among employer-sponsored plans. Older Americans will see their premiums skyrocket under the proposed- and highly discriminatory- age-based tax credits. Americans with pre-existing conditions will once again see access to care denied once they hit their lifetime insurance cap, which will put their lives at grave risk. Hundreds of thousands of working class Bronxites in my District will see their care under Medicaid slowly ripped out from under them, leaving their children and families even more vulnerable than before. Thousands more will lose access to tax credits that made insurance attainable and more affordable. “Republicans have had seven years to come up with alternatives to drive down health care costs and expand coverage as they claim to want; yet this is the best they could do. They should be ashamed of themselves. This is yet another huge tax cut for the most wealthy Americans, and a huge giveaway to big pharma and insurance companies. As a sitting member of Congress and senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I will do everything in my power to prevent this legislation from becoming law.” ###
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today released the following statement on President Trump’s release of a revised executive order on immigration: “President Trump thinks that tweaking and repackaging his Muslim and refugee ban is the solution to bypass our nation’s Constitution. The updated executive order on immigration is as unconstitutional, discriminatory, and misguided as the first one and won’t be upheld in federal courts. Trump claims his extreme measures are necessary keep our country safe, but he has yet to demonstrate any legitimate justification for targeting and banning individuals from primarily Muslim countries. His efforts actually make our country less safe by serving as a recruitment tool for terrorists abroad,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
03.03.2017	Congressman Serrano Leads Effort Seeking Answers on High Lead Levels in NYC Public Schools Members Request Clarification On City’s Handling of Lead Crisis Situation And Plans For Immediate Remediation Washington, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) and seven members of the New York City Congressional Delegation sent a letter to NYC Public Schools Chancellor Carmen Fariña requesting information regarding the City’s investigation and handling of high lead levels in City schools. The request for information comes after several reports of mishandling the parental notification process, inadequate lead testing procedures, and lack of transparency with the Department of Education. “I am concerned by more and more reports about the City’s handling of the crisis surrounding lead levels in our public schools,” said Congressman Serrano. “Parents and families deserve to know the results of these tests, whether their children have been exposed, and what the City is doing to quickly address the situation. We cannot- and must not- take this situation lightly, as it directly impacts our children’s health and overall well-being. I intend to do all I can to ensure the administration follows through on its commitment to providing a safe, lead-free learning environment for all students across New York City.” Last year, in direct response to the lead crisis situation in Flint, MI, the New York State Legislature mandated that all schools test water systems for lead. News reports surfaced that the Department of Education loosened testing procedures that could have potentially altered results. In addition, as more schools are reporting abnormally high lead levels, many families were left in the dark about the situation. The NYC Department of Education must work to improve lines of communication and restore trust with parents and teachers that this situation will be addressed immediately. The text of Congressman Serrano’s letter is below. February 24, 2017 Chancellor Carmen Fariña NYC Department of Education 52 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Dear Chancellor Fariña: We write to express our concern regarding recent reports on the high levels of lead in numerous NYC public schools. Parents in New York City have a reasonable expectation that the schools their children attend are a safe and secure learning environment. It has come to our attention that several schools are continuing to experience abnormally high levels of lead in their water systems. Each day, we read news reports about the situation facing our schools, the apparent lack of transparency between the Department of Education (DOE) and families, and most recently, the City’s failure to notify Spanish-speaking families at one affected school in a timely fashion. We are concerned that the City is not being completely forthcoming with the results of school lead testing. Our constituents expect and deserve access to timely, thorough, and honest information. That is why we are requesting answers to the following inquiries: Which schools, if any, have not been tested since the state implemented mandatory lead testing at all schools last fall? What schools are currently being tested for high lead levels that remain above the EPA’s action level of 15 parts per billion? The DOE received criticism for its response to more stringent testing standards (i.e. flushing pipes the night before testing, etc.) that could have potentially altered results. What is the City’s level of confidence that those results, and subsequent testing results, are accurate? Are students being evaluated for exposure, and if so, what is the process for determining which students receive evaluations? What is the City’s response if students test positive for high levels of lead in their bloodstream? What is the City’s method of communication to notify families, provide timely information, and allow families to solicit assistance? Why does the City not automatically provide notifications in native languages for schools with high numbers of known non-English speaking families? Have all parents been notified at schools where high lead levels have been detected? What resources and assistance are families being provided at this time? What, if any, assistance is the state and federal government providing to help the City remedy the crisis? What state and federal resources are available to help address the situation quickly? If a school’s infrastructure (i.e. paint, pipes, etc.) is found to contain high levels of lead, what is the City’s remediation plan to remove and update that infrastructure? What is the timeline for implementation? What is being done to prevent the usage of spaces that have been found to have high lead exposure while the City moves forward on remediation? What is the City’s protocol to ensure school facilities, especially older facilities, are safe for public use? It is common knowledge that exposure to lead, especially among young children, can have devastating effects on physical health and cognitive development. Because of these serious consequences, it is important that we be straightforward with families about the situation facing our schools. Our children’s health and safety must never be compromised, and we cannot let this situation worsen. The City must go above and beyond to ensure parents have all the resources and information necessary to keep their children safe, and that all problems are promptly resolved. We look forward to your responses and stand ready to work with you to ensure this problem is addressed immediately. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Joseph Crowley Grace Meng Hakeem S. Jeffries Eliot L. Engel Adriano Espaillat Carolyn B. Maloney Nydia M. Velázquez
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Serrano today applauded the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) inclusion of the Hudson Canyon in its inventory of sites being considered for National Marine Sanctuary status. The inclusion was a result of the advocacy efforts of local elected officials, including Congressman Serrano; private sector stakeholders; and environmental groups. The coalition’s efforts will now focus on NOAA’s sanctuary designation process, which includes public engagement and input opportunities to craft regulations that will protect this natural resource. “As someone who has made environmental renewal and preservation in urban areas a priority as a member of Congress during the past two decades, I am thrilled that the Hudson Canyon has been placed into the inventory of sites being considered for designation as a National Marine Sanctuary. This is an important step forward in preserving this natural wonder. Although not widely known, the Hudson Canyon is larger than the Grand Canyon and houses diverse marine wildlife crucial to the quality of New York’s environment and local economy. Its designation as a National Marine Sanctuary will help ensure its resources are utilized in a sustainable manner and protect its biodiversity so that our local population and visitors can enjoy the beauty and bounty of this marine treasure for generations to come,” said Congressman Serrano. This past November, Congressman Serrano led a letter signed by 13 Members of Congress in support of the including the Hudson Canyon in NOAA’s inventory of sites being considered for National Marine Sanctuary status. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the most senior Member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
02.28.2017	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, the Ranking Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, responded to testimony from Members of Congress in support of a number of programs contained in the CJS bill: “I want to thank the Members who testified in front of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee today. They demonstrated the importance of the many programs that we fund in this subcommittee. In particular, I want to point out the bipartisan commitment to a number of programs rumored to be endangered under the Trump Administration- including funding for the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), the COPS program, and the Legal Services Corporation (LSC).” “Given the news yesterday that Donald Trump will propose dramatically slashing domestic spending, there is no doubt that important priorities are in danger. We will likely hear more about President Trump’s radical and destructive views tonight. However, at today's hearing, we heard a powerful rebuttal of his harmful plan to essentially gut spending in important social and economic programs to primarily boost our defense. Republicans and Democrats in Congress alike support programs that invest in our future, ensure public safety, and protect vulnerable populations." Last month, press reports indicated a number of programs under the CJS subcommittee would be proposed for elimination under Trump's budget. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the most senior Member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
02.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today announced that the National Science Foundation has awarded Hostos Community College and Lehman College in the Bronx $103,020 in funding for research how to apply quantitative reasoning (QR) – the use of numbers and data using critical thinking skills – into different college courses and help underrepresented minorities learn these skills to help them attain professional and personal success. “Having solid quantitative reasoning skills is critical for those aspiring to STEM careers and to successfully carry out personal responsibilities like managing their finances. This funding will allow two local educational institutions that primarily serve underrepresented minorities to demonstrate how QR skills can be incorporated into a wide a range of courses to help minority students strengthen their abilities. Thanks to this initiative our youth will have the skills they need to succeed both professionally and personally in the future,” said Congressman Serrano, who is the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee overseeing funding for the National Science Foundation. Project description from the National Science Foundation: Quantitative reasoning (QR), the contextualized use of numbers and data in a way that involves critical thinking skills, is essential for informed decision making, career advancement, and full participation in civic life. Most students do not have sufficient opportunities to learn the QR skills needed for personal and professional success, and this disadvantage is particularly acute among students from underrepresented minority populations. In response to this need, two Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), Hostas Community College and Lehman College will implement a professional development (PD) project, Numeracy Infusion for College Educators (NICE), for 24 faculty in those two institutions along with Bronx Community College faculty (also an HSI). The project will build on prior work in which faculty members learned how to infuse QR into courses ranging from biology, chemistry, and mathematics, to African and African-American studies, history, and political science. Over the course of the project, faculty volunteers will participate either in an intensive 10-week summer program or in a 10-month program offered during the academic year. The NICE project will teach faculty how to (a) apply QR within the context of their subject areas, (b) articulate QR learning goals and objectives, (c) incorporate best practices for teaching QR, (d) adapt and implement strategies for infusing QR into course instruction, and (e) assess the effectiveness of QR initiatives. The same progressive teaching methods that have proven effective in undergraduate QR instruction will be used to teach faculty within the NICE program; specifically, faculty will engage in active and collaborative learning using real-world data. Toward establishing an adaptable model for faculty PD in QR that offers a comparison between an extended academic year experience and a more intense summer-only experience, the project team will focus on three key research questions: (1) How does the NICE program enhance the QR teaching abilities of faculty? (2) How does the NICE program impact faculty efforts to infuse QR into their course instruction?; and (3) How does faculty participation in NICE translate into real QR learning gains among CUNY students? ###
02.22.2017	Washington, DC – US Congressman José Serrano today released the following statement on the immigration enforcement implementation memos released yesterday by the Trump Administration: “The implementation memos released yesterday allow the Trump Administration to enact a mass deportation and detention agenda and essentially undoes decades of guidance to protect vulnerable populations while keeping our country safe. “It takes away the whole system of prioritization in immigration enforcement- every non-citizen immigrant is at risk of deportation now- documented or undocumented. Unlike President Obama’s prioritization efforts, which sought to primarily go after criminal aliens, this memo includes anyone who is undocumented or who is a legal permanent resident with a decades old minor violation. There is no priority in the process and no one is exempted from potential deportation. “The rules also potentially widely increases the use of expedited removal- which basically allows the removal of an individual without an immigration court hearing. This policy was previously restricted only to areas near the border and for individuals who have been in the country less than two weeks. These memos plan to apply the policy to the whole country and remove length of time limitations. This means that anyone can be deported, separated from their family immediately, without due process. These efforts are unconstitutional. “These rules not only lack common sense, they have serious implications for public safety and federal spending. Going after immigrants aggressively and indiscriminately will create more fear in immigrant communities and push individuals into the shadows. These enforcement efforts will also undermine public safety in communities with large numbers of immigrants, many of whom will be too scared to report crimes or cooperate with local law enforcement. “It is also going to be very expensive to implement this expansion of deportation services, which require the hiring of at least 10,000 additional immigration agents. President Trump has failed to provide a clear and sensible answer on how he intends to pay for building the wall and implementing his Executive Orders on immigration- he seems intent on wasting resources that we should be investing elsewhere as a nation. As a member of the Appropriations committee and Dean of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I will object and obstruct the allocation of any funding for the implementation of a misguided set of policies that fail to address the fundamental problems in our immigration system." ###
02.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today reintroduced the Anti-Hunger Empowerment Act of 2017. Originally introduced in the 109th Congress, the bill seeks to change administrative cost provisions within the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to increase its financial capacity to assist underserved communities facing hunger insecurity. “There is no reason why any child or individual should go hungry in a country like ours, where resources are plentiful and tons of food go to waste every year. The Anti-Hunger Empowerment Act seeks to promote the use of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) resources, and to allow food pantries, soup kitchens, and other charitable feeding programs to expand their services and to provide more meals in communities that face food insecurity- like the Bronx. Every household should have access to basic necessities, including nutritious food, regardless of their economic background. These changes will help achieve that goal,” said Congressman Serrano. This legislation would: Establish the Beyond the Soup Kitchen Grant Program to provide funds to community-based and faith-based charitable feeding organizations to expand their grassroots anti-hunger activities. These activities include providing nutrition education and helping individuals enroll in federal food assistance programs. Expand the number of hours supplemental nutrition assistance offices are open and reduce wait times at SNAP offices. Remove burdensome and duplicative requirements that deter eligible Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients from applying. ###
02.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano led a group of 38 Democratic members in sending a letter to the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General (IG) and the Office for Civil Right and Civil Liberties urging them to thoroughly investigate the implementation of President Trump’s Muslim ban executive order at ports of entry prior to judicial stays. “I am appalled by numerous reports of abusive behavior and coercive practices reportedly used by Customs and Border Patrol agents in implementing the President’s unconstitutional Muslim Ban. Their actions may have violated internal protocol, federal civil rights laws, and individuals’ constitutional rights. With multiple layers of oversight over the Department of Homeland Security, it is important that we get a thorough investigation on how DHS officials conducted themselves as they implemented the order and whether they were following orders from above if in fact the type of reported abuses were committed. It is also important that Members of Congress be provided with unredacted information in order to prevent these types of violations from taking place in the future. DHS officials have a duty to implement our nation’s immigration laws but they also have a duty to respect peoples’ fundamental rights while doing so,” said Congressman Serrano. The effort comes in response to reports indicating that some individuals stopped by Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) were coerced into signing forms relinquishing their legal permanent resident status and others were pressured into rescinding their applications for admission into our country under a visa. In at least one airport, CBP officers denied access to legal counsel to several individuals despite a federal court order requiring such access according to reports. Numerous lawsuits have been filed in response to these concerns. The Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties has not announced any investigation into these actions to date. While the DHS IG announced an investigation into this matter, the scope is unclear. The letter asks both agencies to thoroughly investigate and answer numerous questions regarding these reported abuses, and for both offices to provide Congress with updates, briefings, and full unredacted reports when they conclude their investigations. In the letter, the members of Congress wrote: “These stories are seriously disturbing. If accurate, they undermine important provisions of our Constitution and the rule of law in the United States. While courts will soon rule on the constitutionality of this Executive Order on its face, there also remain serious questions regarding the violation of individuals’ rights- including the rights of legal permanent residents- and CBP’s responsibilities in these circumstances. There are also important questions to be answered regarding whether senior officials at DHS or elsewhere provided guidance requiring CBP agents to engage in such conduct. We believe if there were violations of law, procedure, or policy by CBP agents or their superiors, then those individuals should be held accountable. Although the DHS Inspector General has initiated an investigation, we believe that the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties should do the same, and that both investigations address the following questions: Did CBP officers attempt to coerce LPRs into signing I-407 forms relinquishing their status as legal permanent residents? If so, where and when? Did CBP officers attempt to coerce visa holders into signing I-275 forms to rescind their applications for admission to the United States? If so, how many instances of this occurred, and where did they occur? Were there instances at Dulles International Airport in which CBP officers refused to follow a federal court order requiring access to counsel for individuals being detained? Were there similar instances at other airports or ports of entry? If so, in how many instances did this occur, and where did it occur? Did these actions violate CBP internal rules, regulations, guidance, or operations manuals? Did these actions violate any statutes protecting civil rights and liberties? Did they implicate any constitutional rights? Why did these abuses occur? Did senior officials at the Department of Homeland Security or the White House provide guidance or instruction requiring such conduct? Has the Department of Homeland Security taken disciplinary action against any officers or senior officials involved in these efforts? Do you recommend that such action be taken?” The Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties is tasked with ensuring that the Department of Homeland Security follow all constitutional, statutory, and regulatory requirements with regard to civil rights and civil liberties, and with investigating and resolving civil rights and civil liberties complaints. The Office of the Inspector General investigates waste, fraud, mismanagement, and abuse at the Department of Homeland Security. The letter was signed by Reps. José E. Serrano, Elijah E. Cummings, Nydia M. Velázquez, Raúl M. Grijalva, Betty McCollum, James P. McGovern, Jerrold Nadler, Darren Soto, Jamie Raskin, Ruben Gallego, Keith Ellison, Alcee L. Hastings, William R. Keating, Jan Schakowsky, Henry C. ‘Hank’ Johnson, Jr., Hakeem Jeffries, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Ted W. Lieu, Grace Meng, Yvette D. Clarke, Juan Vargas, Grace F. Napolitano, Katherine Clark, Nita M. Lowey, Steve Cohen, Tony Cárdenas, Carolyn B. Maloney, Jared Huffman, Luis V. Gutiérrez, David E. Price, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., John Yarmuth, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Alan Lowenthal, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Mark Pocan, Niki Tsongas, and Stacey Plaskett. February 8, 2017 Mr. John Roth Inspector General Mail Stop 0305 Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane SW Washington, DC 20528-0305 Ms. Veronica Venture Acting Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Department of Homeland Security Building 410, Mail Stop #0190 Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Inspector General Roth and Acting Officer Venture, We write to urge you to conduct an immediate investigation into potential abuse of civil rights and constitutional rights of individuals detained by Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) agents under the implementation of the Executive Order issued on January 27, 2017, entitled “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States.” We are extremely concerned by reports of coercive actions taken by CBP officers, and that individuals were denied access to legal counsel, sometimes in spite of court orders requiring such access. As this Executive Order has been implemented in a chaotic and uneven manner, a number of disturbing reports have emerged. There have been numerous news accounts indicating that CBP officers attempted to coerce several Legal Permanent Residents (LPR) into signing an I-407 form, which relinquishes their LPR status. Additionally, there are still other stories in the media that valid visa holders were detained and encouraged to sign an I-275 form, which rescinds their application for admission into the United States. There are also numerous reports indicating that CBP officers at Dulles International Airport refused to allow lawyers access to their detained clients, despite a court-issued Temporary Restraining Order requiring such access. These stories are seriously disturbing. If accurate, they undermine important provisions of our Constitution and the rule of law in the United States. While courts will soon rule on the constitutionality of this Executive Order on its face, there also remain serious questions regarding the violation of individuals’ rights- including the rights of legal permanent residents- and CBP’s responsibilities in these circumstances. There are also important questions to be answered regarding whether senior officials at DHS or elsewhere provided guidance requiring CBP agents to engage in such conduct. We believe if there were violations of law, procedure, or policy by CBP agents or their superiors, then those individuals should be held accountable. Although the DHS Inspector General has initiated an investigation, we believe that the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties should do the same, and that both investigations address the following questions: Did CBP officers attempt to coerce LPRs into signing I-407 forms relinquishing their status as legal permanent residents? If so, where and when? Did CBP officers attempt to coerce visa holders into signing I-275 forms to rescind their applications for admission to the United States? If so, how many instances of this occurred, and where did they occur? Were there instances at Dulles International Airport in which CBP officers refused to follow a federal court order requiring access to counsel for individuals being detained? Were there similar instances at other airports or ports of entry? If so, in how many instances did this occur, and where did it occur? Did these actions violate CBP internal rules, regulations, guidance, or operations manuals? Did these actions violate any statutes protecting civil rights and liberties? Did they implicate any constitutional rights? Why did these abuses occur? Did senior officials at the Department of Homeland Security or the White House provide guidance or instruction requiring such conduct? Has the Department of Homeland Security taken disciplinary action against any officers or senior officials involved in these efforts? Do you recommend that such action be taken? We fully support the DHS IG’s investigation, and believe further action by the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties will help ensure accountability and fairness for all parties involved in the implementation of this Executive Order. Please let us know immediately if there are any challenges to accessing documents or witnesses. If the investigatory requests made in this letter will be covered under the scope of the DHS IG’s investigation, we request that you add the signatories of this letter to the list of Members requesting that investigation, and we ask to receive regular updates on its status. We also request full, unredacted copies of the reports once they are completed, as well as a full briefing at that time. Thank you for your service to our country and your efforts to ensure our immigration system is administered in a fair, impartial, and constitutional manner. We look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.07.2017	Washington D.C. -- The Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus announced its bi-partisan membership list for the 115th Congress today. The Caucus will continue to be co-chaired by the six openly LGBT members of the House of Representatives: Jared Polis (CO-02), David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), and Mark Takano (CA-41). “On behalf of the co-chairs, I thank my colleagues in both parties who have joined the LGBT Equality Caucus and pledged to stand for and with the LGBT community,” said LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09). “While we’ve made significant progress in recent years, we still have more work to do and must protect the progress we’ve made. Our caucus continues to work to ensure every American has the fundamental freedom and opportunity to pursue the American Dream.” “I am proud to once again be a member of the LGBT Caucus. We have made significant progress in the advancement of LGBT rights in recent years but much more needs to be done. This Congress we will also have to fight hard Republican’s efforts to roll back many of these achievements. As a member of the Caucus and Senior member of the Appropriations committee I will work to ensure all Americans have access to the same rights and opportunities,” said Congressman Serrano. The Caucus also announced the eleven Vice Chairs of the Caucus, who will assist the Co-Chairs in leading the Caucus and promoting LGBT equality in the House: Ted Deutch (FL-22), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (MA-04), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Ted W. Lieu (CA-33), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), and Adam B. Schiff (CA-28). The Caucus’s general members are: Pete Aguilar (CA-31), Nanette Barragan (CA-44), Karen Bass (CA-37), Ami Bera (CA-07), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Robert A. Brady (PA-01), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), André Carson (IN-07), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Judy Chu (CA-27), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Charlie Crist (FL-13), Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Susan A. Davis (CA-53), Diana DeGette (CO-01), John K. Delaney (MD-06), Suzan K. DelBene (WA-01), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Eliot L. Engel (NY-16), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-05), Bill Foster (IL-11), Lois Frankel (FL-21), Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05), Al Green (TX-09), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Denny Heck (WA-10), Brian Higgins (NY-26), James A. Himes (CT-04), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), William R. Keating (MA-09), Ruben J. Kihuen (NV-04), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), Ann M. Kuster (NH-02), Jim Langevin (RI-02), David Loebsack (IA-02), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Donald McEachin (VA-04), Grace Meng (NY-06), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), Scott Peters (CA-52), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), David Price (NC-04), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Bradley S. Schneider (IL-10), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Marc A. Veasey (TX-33), Tim Walz (MN-01), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Peter Welch (VT-00), and Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24). Please contact LGBT Equality Caucus Executive Director Roddy Flynn at 202-257-8416 or roddy.flynn@mail.house.gov with press inquiries. The mission of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus is to promote lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality. The bi-partisan LGBT Equality Caucus is strongly committed to achieving the full enjoyment of human rights for LGBT people in the U.S. and around the world. By serving as a resource for Members of Congress, their staff, and the public on LGBT issues, the Caucus works toward the extension of equal rights, the repeal of discriminatory laws, the elimination of hate-motivated violence, and the improved health and wellbeing for all regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity/expression. ###
02.07.2017	Washington, DC – US Congressman José E. Serrano, the new Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee today released the following statement in strong support of maintaining funding for ‘sanctuary cities’: “It has been made clear by the Trump Administration and Republicans in Congress that cutting funding for sanctuary cities is among their top priorities. As the new Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee and the Representative from a city that has served as a haven for immigrants for centuries, I will say from the get go that gutting funding for sanctuary cities is non-negotiable for Democrats on the Appropriations Committee. Attempting to remove law enforcement funding for ‘sanctuary cities,’ in a misguided attempt to force them to act as immigration enforcement agents is not just unconstitutional, but will undermine public safety as well. This is an issue I won’t compromise on- our security, prosperity, justice and values are on the line,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Serrano officially assumed the position of Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee after the Democratic Policy and Steering Committee ratified all Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Members and released the following statement: “I am thrilled to take the helm and lead Democrats’ work on the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee. With President Trump in power, our work in Congress to preserve important rights and programs is now more than important than ever. “This subcommittee has an important role to play in funding programs and policies important to all Americans. It ensures that the Department of Justice has the resources to protect civil rights and voting rights and deliver needed assistance to local law enforcement, domestic violence victims, and many others. It provides federal funding to the Department of Commerce’s diverse missions, which range from trade enforcement to environmental issues to assisting minority-owned businesses. It provides assistance to numerous agencies that help people uphold their statutory and constitutional rights- like the Legal Services Corporation, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Commission on Civil Rights. And the numerous sciences agencies in the bill fund the research that help our nation remain the premier economy in the world. Unfortunately, many these priorities are being targeted by the Trump Administration and their allies in Congress. According to press reports, the Administration may propose eliminating a number of programs within the Department of Justice, including both the COPS program and grants under the Violence Against Women Act. These same reports also indicated that Republicans are considering cuts to the Civil Rights Division and the Environment and Natural Resources Division. Additionally, they pointed out Republican interest in eliminating the Legal Services Corporation and defunding numerous Department of Commerce programs that helps businesses grow and enforce our trade laws.” “I am already deeply troubled by actions taken at some of these agencies- especially with regard to the Department of Justice. I intend to hold those in charge of these areas accountable for their actions, and I plan to fight tooth and nail against any efforts to reduce funding for programs vital to my constituents and all Americans. I will do everything in my power to ensure adequate funding for these agencies, which guarantee that our fundamental constitutional rights are respected and protected, that our nation’s laws are vigorously enforced, that our businesses get the assistance and information they need to grow, and that our future is secured through innovative research and development.” The Appropriations Committee funds the operation of the federal government, and is broken up into 12 subcommittees which conduct oversight and make funding decisions for the agencies under their jurisdiction. Jurisdiction: Examples of agencies under the jurisdiction of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee include the following: Department of Justice: FBI- Federal Bureau of Investigation ATF- Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives DEA- Drug Enforcement Administration Executive Office of Immigration Review Office on Violence Against Women Federal Bureau of Prisons Department of Commerce: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Census Bureau National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) Economic Development Administration (EDA) US Patent and Trademark Office International Trade Administration (ITA) NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) National Science Foundation Legal Services Corporation Equal Employment Opportunity Commission International Trade Commission Commission on Civil Rights Marine Mammal Commission Executive Office of the President Office of Science and Technology Policy Office of the US Trade Representative ###
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Serrano today released the following statement on the passing of former Representative for the South Bronx, Bob Garcia. Congressman Serrano was Representative Garcia’s successor in Congress. “I am deeply saddened to hear of the passing of my good friend and colleague Bobby Garcia. For 25 years, Bob worked hard for the people of the South Bronx as its representative in the New York State Assembly, the New York State Senate, and eventually the U.S. House of Representatives. He had a good career in Congress for more than 10 years, during which he played an instrumental role in a number of local, national, and international initiatives including among many other serving as the official representative of the US Congress to NATO; helping convince then President Carter to include the term Hispanic in the Census, which helped Hispanics achieve greater political representation; and helped develop, along with Congressman Jack Kemp, the enterprise zone idea which led to the eventual creation of the Empowerment Zone program. He also passed legislation, with the assistance of many colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus, to establish a national holiday honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. As one of the first elected officials of Puerto Rican descent in the South Bronx, including the first one elected to the New York State Senate, Bobby Garcia was a pioneer and a legend, and those that knew him well will never forget him. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones during this difficult time.” ###
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the immigration executive orders announced by President Trump today: “President Trump’s executive action announcements today are a sharp reversal of the values and welcoming spirit that have characterized this great nation. The impact of this announcement will be felt primarily by immigrant families already living here, but also by countless individuals from other countries fleeing wars, political instability and persecution in their homelands. Instead of this extreme, expensive, and misguided effort, we should be working on comprehensive immigration reform, the only permanent and fair solution to fix our broken immigration system. “It is sad and startling to see a fellow New Yorker with immigrant roots attack immigrants and sanctuary cities. New York has welcomed millions of immigrants throughout the history of this nation, and immigrants have made our city, what it is today. Today’s announcement attempting to cut funding for sanctuary cities unless they enforce federal immigration laws will only hurt their security and local economies, and will encourage immigrants to remain in the shadows and leave crimes unreported. These efforts are both illogical and unconstitutional. “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I will do everything in my power to stop the implementation of these Executive Orders- the budgetary impact of which will undermine important funding priorities in infrastructure, health care, education, and many other areas. I will never support the Trump Administration’s efforts to waste billions of taxpayer dollars building a wall of hate that will not be reimbursed by the government of Mexico. We should be spending this money instead on modernizing our infrastructure and investing in the education of future generations- including immigrants. We need to boost our country’s competitiveness, not trample down a population that strengthens our nation. “In my hometown, which I share with this President, the Statue of Liberty stands in New York Harbor. Lady Liberty, as she is sometimes known, is a beacon of our nation’s values and a symbol of our history as a country of immigrants. She turns her back in shame on this President today.” ###
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today denounced the Trump Administration’s decision to take down the White House’s Spanish language website and to ignore the existing Spanish-language twitter account. The web page was taken down after Trump took office on Friday. In addition, a related twitter account, @LaCasaBlanca has not been used since that time. Although the White House Press Secretary vaguely indicated today that they intend to “build out the website,” no time frame was given for returning Spanish language access to Whitehouse.gov. “The Trump Administration’s decision to take down its Spanish website without an adequate replacement available is extremely disturbing. It shows once again President Trump and his Administration’s lack of regard for the Hispanic community. I also sincerely hope this isn’t a sign that President Trump intends to go back to Republican’s ‘English Only’ policies of the 1990’s. Hispanics represent too large a segment of our population and future and simply can’t be ignored. Their needs and concerns need to be addressed. We are a diverse, multi-lingual country – and our nation’s government should continue to reflect that fact.” Congressman Serrano previously introduced the English-Plus resolution, which reaffirms the importance of multilingualism in the United States and the need to provide essential information and services in languages other than English. Serrano has also long opposed English-Only efforts, having resisted previous efforts in both the New York State Assembly and in Congress. ###
01.17.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) today applauded President Obama’s decision to grant clemency and liberate Oscar Lopez Rivera: “For more than 35 years, Oscar Lopez has sat in prison waiting for the day when he would be able return home to the island that he loves. Today all Puerto Ricans celebrate President Obama’s decision to, at long last, let Oscar come home. “Although Puerto Ricans are divided on the political status of the island, all individuals, parties, and organizations have been united in their desire to see Oscar come home to his family. His cause has united Puerto Ricans in many areas of life -- from artists, like Ricky Martin and Lin Manuel Miranda, to politicians, including the current and former governors of Puerto Rico and every U.S. member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent. National and international leaders like former U.S. President Jimmy Carter and Archbishop Desmund Tutu also added their voices to the campaign. We all join Oscar’s family in celebrating President Obama’s decision today. “By granting clemency to a man that has served more than his fair share of time in prison and allowing him to come home to be with his family, President Obama has shown his willingness to do the right thing once again for Puerto Rico. As someone who has advocated for Oscar’s liberation for years, I applaud President Obama’s bravery to take this important step before leaving office.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
01.12.2017	Washington, DC – Democratic lawmakers today wrote to President Obama asking that, in his final days in office, he grant a pardon to Legal Permanent Residents who are at risk of deportation due to minor criminal offenses. The letter, authored by New York Reps. José E. Serrano and Nydia M. Velázquez, notes that 100,000 to 200,000 families include green card holders who, while in the country legally, are in jeopardy of removal due to minor infractions, many of which occurred some time ago. Many immigrants have expressed fear that the incoming Administration will target individuals in this category for deportation. “There’s palpable fear in immigrant communities, particularly among some legal residents who are at risk of deportation due to small legal infractions, many of which happened a long time ago,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). “We can’t allow families in these circumstances to be torn apart, and President Obama could – with the stroke of a pen – provide these individuals with a degree of assurance.” “We’re asking President Obama to address the fears that many immigrant families have of a Trump Administration, where thousands of green card holders with minor criminal records will likely be at risk of deportation. A 20 year old conviction for turnstile jumping should not lead to deportation. Without action, these individuals could be forced to go back to a country they do not know and they may be separated from their spouses and children- leading to unnecessary emotional and economic harm. President Obama has previously used his executive authority to deprioritize the deportation of these individuals- we’re asking that he use his pardon powers to ensure their safety and security beyond January 20th,” said Congressman Serrano. The letter is also signed by: Reps. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA); Gene Green (D-TX); Adriano Espaillat (D-NY); John Lewis (D-GA); Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR); Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC); Grace Meng (D-NY); Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY); James P. McGovern (D-MA); Mark Takano (D-CA); Judy Chu (D-CA); Marc Veasey (D-TX); Albio Sires (D-NJ); Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) ; Keith Ellison (D-MN); Juan Vargas (D-CA); Darren Soto (D-FL); Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL); Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA); Tony Cárdenas (D-CA); Jerrold Nadler (D-NY); Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY); Alma S. Adams (D-NC); Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ); Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and Barbara Lee (D-CA). The text of the letter is below. January 12, 2017 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write with great urgency to ask that you pardon all Lawful Permanent Residents (LPRs) who are legally deportable based solely on minor criminal offenses. LPRs, or green card holders, already possess legal status. These immigrants are productive members of our community and many of them have resided in the U.S. for significant periods of time. To deport these individuals due to relatively minor infractions is not only disproportionate, but also morally unacceptable. Furnishing a pardon against the civil deportation charges that can be generated by these minor convictions will effectively provide many American families with long-lasting protection against deportation and help ease fears in immigrant communities as we transition into the new Administration. Furthermore, your pardon power could also be used to rectify current limitations that prevent certain immigrants from legalizing their status. The Supreme Court has previously recognized under current law deportation is largely a predestined fate for a wide range of noncitizen offenders. In addition to more serious offenses, low-level convictions can result in deportation. This remains the case for scenarios in which offenses may have occurred decades ago, or alternatively, when the underlying criminal sentences involved minimal or no jail time. In short, individuals in possession of legal status are subject to an additional penalty for any criminal offenses. Aside from any sentence received from a criminal court, these people are subject to deportation based on these minor infractions. In most cases, these individuals have already served a sentence, paid a fine or otherwise repaid their debt to society. A longtime LPR with a conviction for a minor offense, for example, can face deportation to a country they may have left as a child, no longer recognize and where they have no family or support network. These negative consequences are even more devastating when families are involved. Needless deportations can tear families apart or require a U.S. citizen spouse to accompany their deported spouse to another country. The sons and daughters of these immigrants, in cases where they have no family to care for them in the case of deportation may likely find themselves facing unnecessary foster care placement. In cases where there are no additional options, both the immigrant, U.S. spouse and their children would likely have no additional option other than to move abroad. The disproportionate burden this places on legal permanent residents and their families is not only unfair—it is completely unjustified. A presidential pardon for those with low-level offenses would ameliorate this situation and protect many Legal Permanent Residents from devastating, life changing consequences. Your Administration has already exhibited great leadership de-prioritizing removal of some people with minor convictions. Although we believe that the deportation of many people who fall within the current enforcement priorities is disproportionate to their offenses, at minimum, we urge you to make permanent your Administration’s established priorities by pardoning all LPRs who fall outside of those enforcement priorities. Doing so would protect between 100,000 and 200,000 families. The Supreme Court has been clear that such broad categorical reprieves are consistent with the presidential pardon power, do not require legislative approval, and further, that the pardon power does not only apply to criminal penalties. A robust presidential pardon would ensure just treatment for permanent residents and keep families together who might otherwise be separated via deportation. We ask that you move swiftly to take this timely step. Thank you for your consideration of our views. Sincerely, ###
01.04.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement at the start of the 115th Congress: “I am proud to once again take the oath of office to represent my constituents in the 15th Congressional District in the Bronx. It is an honor to represent you in Congress, and I will do my utmost to ensure that our core values- tolerance, fairness, community, and social justice- are given voice here in Washington, DC. “We are facing a time of unprecedented challenges to many of the principles and programs that we hold dear. Republicans are already lining up efforts to reduce or privatize programs that many of my constituents depend upon, including Medicaid, Medicare, Social Security, and the Affordable Care Act. These are core pieces of our social safety net- pieces that hundreds of thousands of Bronx families use to help ensure their health and make ends meet. “Unfortunately, this radical agenda also extends beyond these areas. Republicans are also seeking to implement the hateful and hurtful words of the election. They will seek to break up immigrant families and drive immigrants back into the shadows. This is repugnant to the diverse mosaic that makes up our community in the Bronx- and I will fight with every fiber of my being to stop these efforts. “Very few Americans actually support these extreme proposals- and nothing in this past election indicated a desire to undermine these essential parts of our American experiment. I will do everything in my power to ensure that this radical agenda is not implemented, and will strongly oppose Republican efforts to do so. “There are already troubling signs of the dangerous type of government that Republicans are seeking to implement. The rules package proposed by Republicans that we will vote on today undermines accountability and our constitutional rights. By instituting fines for expressing dissent, Republicans are attempting to weaken free speech in the House of Representatives. By reinstituting the Holman rule on appropriations bills, they are trying to undermine our civil service and harm our federal workers and labor unions. And by even contemplating undercutting the independence and investigatory powers of the Office of Congressional Ethics, Republicans have shown just how little they value transparency, oversight, and accountability. I will vote against these proposals today. “As the Dean of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to speak out against Republican attempts to undermine our values, our society, and our Constitution. It is time to redouble the fight for our principles.” ###
12.22.2016	The Bronx, NY – U.S. Congressmen José Serrano and Joe Crowley today announced that language which would require the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a grant program to support undergraduate science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education at Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) was approved in Congress last week as part of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, also known as America COMPETES Act. In 2015, Serrano and Crowley offered an amendment to the House version of the bill to ensure that NSF establish a program focused on HSIs. The final Senate version contains substantially similar language in Section 315 requiring the NSF’s director to award merit-based grants to HSIs. “Hispanics continue to be underrepresented in STEM fields, and without a dedicated program to help institutions that serve primarily Hispanic students, that will continue to be the case. Hispanic Serving Institutions need to have the necessary financial resources to help encourage more students to pursue careers in the sciences, and this provision will ensure that HSIs have just that. I am pleased to see this important measure included in the America COMPETES act; investing in Hispanics’ education in the science fields is investing in the future competitiveness of our country,” said Congressman Serrano. “Encouraging traditionally underrepresented minorities, such as Hispanics, to enter STEM fields is imperative for our country to remain competitive in today’s global economy,” said Rep. Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “This dedicated grant program for HSIs is a pivotal step in supporting Hispanic students poised to become our next scientists, engineers and leaders of tomorrow. It’s an investment that will open doors of opportunity for countless communities while growing our talent pool, and I’m thrilled this piece of legislation is on its way to the president’s desk.” "The Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU) commends the members of the 114th Congress for passing the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act. We are especially grateful to Representatives Joseph Crowley and Jose Serrano for their steadfast commitment to and support of Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs),” said HACU President and CEO, Antonio R. Flores. “The final bill includes language that directs the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a much-needed competitive grant program for HSIs. HACU has advocated for such a program for many years in view of the national need to increase Hispanic participation in the STEM workforce. We look forward to engaging with the leadership of the NSF in the development of an effective program." In the 114th Congress, Serrano and Crowley introduced the Hispanic Opportunity Program in Education and Science Act (HOPES Act), H.R. 1924, to require NSF to establish a HSI undergraduate program. This bill inspired the amendment to the America COMPETES Act. ###
12.22.2016	The Bronx, NY – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15) released the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s efforts to withdraw the Hudson Canyon, and other parts of the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans from future oil and gas exploration and development. “I strongly applaud President Obama’s leadership in announcing the withdrawal of parts of the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans from future energy exploration under 12(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. This action will protect millions of acres of ecologically- and culturally-sensitive waters, and the countless species of marine wildlife that exist there. “In November, I led a Congressional letter supporting the nomination of the Hudson Canyon in the Atlantic Ocean as a National Marine Sanctuary and urging the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to begin the designation process. I am pleased that the administration included this ecological wonder in their recent actions. The biodiversity and marine wildlife that call these particular waters home are a central part of the New York economy and they must be protected from the harmful impacts of energy exploration. “It is my hope that Congress will continue along the path that President Obama has set in protecting our environment from the dangers of climate change. As a senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, I will work to ensure these protections are not undermined or undone in the years ahead. I thank the President for his eight years of steadfast leadership on this issue and his efforts to ensure we leave behind a stronger and healthier planet for generations to come.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.16.2016	The Bronx, NY – U.S. Congressman Jose Serrano today led 17 House Democrats in urging Secretary of State Kerry to revoke the certification that Honduras has met conditions placed by Congress in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 in order to obtain U.S. funding. Last year, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 enumerated several conditions—including requiring Honduras to combat corruption, investigate and prosecute human rights violations, and improve transparency—in order for Honduras to receive their full U.S. foreign aid allocation. The State Department was required to verify that these provisions were being met before disbursing the aid. Despite significant evidence to the contrary, this past September, the State Department certified that Honduras met the conditions placed on 50 percent of the aid appropriated for Honduras in Fiscal Year 2016. In a letter to Secretary Kerry, the Congressmen wrote: “We believe the State Department was wrong to certify Honduras’ compliance with these requirements. There is significant evidence that impunity, corruption, and human rights violations continue unabated in Honduras. For example, President Juan Orlando Hernández and his ruling National Party have admitted that they stole funds from the National Health Service and diverted those funds into their 2013 election campaign coffers; yet the Attorney General has not prosecuted them. Héctor Iván Mejía, Director of Planning and Operations for the National Police (the third highest-ranking position), is documented to have committed gross violations of human rights and is still in office. Most recently, a captain in the Honduran Armed Forces and former DEA informant has charged that Samuel Reyes, the Minister of Defense, is a drug trafficker,” the members of Congress wrote. We ask that you immediately revoke the certification of the 50 percent of funds allocated under the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 that are subject to compliance with human rights conditions. “More broadly, we ask that you rethink U.S. support for a government with such a long, established track record of human rights violations and concerted disrespect for the rule of law.” Full text of the letter below and PDF attached. The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: We are writing to express our concern regarding the grave human rights situation and continuing deterioration of the rule of law in Honduras. We are particularly concerned with the State Department’s certification on September 30, 2016 that the government of Honduras has met conditions Congress placed on 50 percent of the aid to Honduras for Fiscal Year 2016, and ask that you revoke that certification. As you are aware, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 required the State Department to investigate and report on whether the Honduran central government is taking effective steps to “combat corruption, including investigating and prosecuting government officials credibly alleged to be corrupt,” to implement policies to “improve transparency and strengthen public institutions” including the independence of the judiciary, and to “investigate and prosecute in the civilian justice system members of military and police forces who are credibly alleged to have violated human rights, and ensure that the military and police are cooperating in such cases.” It also requires that the government take effective steps to create an accountable police force and to “curtail the role of the military in domestic policing.” Absent these findings and a certification by the State Department, Congress required your agency to withhold 50 percent of the foreign aid funding for Honduras. We believe the State Department was wrong to certify Honduras’ compliance with these requirements. There is significant evidence that impunity, corruption, and human rights violations continue unabated in Honduras. For example, President Juan Orlando Hernández and his ruling National Party have admitted that they stole funds from the National Health Service and diverted those funds into their 2013 election campaign coffers; yet the Attorney General has not prosecuted them. Héctor Iván Mejía, Director of Planning and Operations for the National Police (the third highest-ranking position), is documented to have committed gross violations of human rights and is still in office. Most recently, a captain in the Honduran Armed Forces and former DEA informant has charged that Samuel Reyes, the Minister of Defense, is a drug trafficker. While an ostensible cleanup of the police is being enacted to much fanfare, the government’s purging commission itself includes a leader of the 2009 coup. The commission reports that a few hundred allegedly corrupt members of the police have been separated, yet as of this writing not a single case has evidently been forwarded to the Public Ministry for prosecution. Judicial independence also continues to be undermined, contributing to further impunity. In February 2016, a new Supreme Court was elected by the Honduran Congress in a process widely denounced as non-transparent and illegal. Last October, the government announced it would not restore four judges who were illegally deposed for publicly opposing the coup, although their reinstatement has been ordered by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. That same month, the Honduran Congress named judges to a new anti-corruption court in a process widely criticized by civil society as non-transparent and failing to incorporate the mandated input of civil society. The military’s role in domestic policing also continues to expand, in violation of the Honduran Constitution. In August 2016, the government announced the creation of two new additional battalions of the Military Police of Public Order (PMOP), which answers to a military command but performs domestic police functions. Human rights groups have documented multiple committed gross violations of human rights by the PMOP, with impunity. In another alarming example of the military’s expansion in domestic policing, the important task force FUSINA combines multiple civilian and military agencies, including regular police, in a single body under military supervision. In addition to the previously mentioned requirements, we note that the 2016 Appropriations Act also mandated that the central government of Honduras create an “autonomous, publicly accountable entity to provide oversight” of the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity of the Northern Triangle; implement policies guaranteeing the consultation of affected local communities and civil society groups, including Indigenous groups, in any activities of the plan; improve transparency; cooperate with commissions against impunity and regional human rights groups; and protect the right of the political opposition, journalists, trade unionists, human rights defenders and other civil society activists to operate without interference. Nevertheless, no functioning oversight body for the plan has been enacted. In fact, a new “Law of Secrets” sealing off government records has dramatically decreased transparency. Moreover, the assassination of Indigenous leader Berta Cáceres in March 2016 has highlighted the ongoing and illegal failure of the government to consult with Indigenous and Afro-Indigenous people on the construction of hydroelectric dams and other development projects. Moreover, the freedom of activists such as Cáceres to exercise basic civil liberties continues to be threatened, often fatally. President Hernández himself has repeatedly and publicly charged human rights defenders with undermining the country. The government has still failed to implement an already-weak law designed to protect human rights defenders. The government has also failed to comply with an order of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights mandating protection of over 300 Hondurans. This illustrates the Honduran government’s ongoing failure to cooperate with regional human rights groups, as Congress’s conditions require. A new Support Mission Against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH), formed by the Organization of American States in 2015, has reported that the Honduran government has failed to pass new legislation it has recommended, and that the government does not cooperate with it. Finally, we are concerned by a recent statement in which the Department of State declared that the United States does not oppose presidential reelection in Honduras, although the Honduran Constitution specifically bars reelection and even makes it a criminal act for a sitting president to advocate it. By issuing this statement just days after President Hernández announced his candidacy for reelection, the State Department signals a disturbing lack of respect for the rule of law in Honduras, along with its support for an administration that has a long track record of undermining it. We ask that you immediately revoke the certification of the 50 percent of funds allocated under the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 that are subject to compliance with human rights conditions. More broadly, we ask that you rethink U.S. support for a government with such a long, established track record of human rights violations and concerted disrespect for the rule of law. Sincerely, Members of Congress ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Serrano announced that H.R. 6282, his legislation to rename the Morris Heights Post Office after former Tuskegee Airman and Bronx Community College President Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. has been approved in the Senate. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for his approval. Congressman Serrano introduced the legislation on September 28th, along with Congressmen Charles Rangel, Eliot Engel, and the rest of the New York Delegation in the House of Representative. In a letter to the Chairman of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee in the Senate, Senators Schumer and Gillibrand expressed their strong support for the bill in the Senate. Congressman Serrano introduced the legislation on September 28th, along with Congressmen Charles Rangel, Eliot Engel, and the rest of the New York Delegation in the House of Representatives. “I am proud to see this legislation to honor the life and legacy of Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. reach this important milestone, and I thank my colleagues Senators Schumer and Gillibrand for their lead in the Senate to see it approved before the end of this Congress,” said Congressman Serrano. “Dr. Brown was a trailblazer who fought heroically for his country despite segregation during World War II and improved the lives of countless New Yorkers and Americans through his work in the Civil Rights Movement and the education field. He challenged the status quo and made the Bronx, New York City, and our country a better and more fair place for all. I was proud to call him a friend, and I thank Congressman Rangel, Congressman Engel and the rest of the New York Delegation for working with me on this bill. Bronxites will now be able to always remember Dr. Roscoe Brown’s life and legacy with this honor.” “Dr. Roscoe Brown, Jr. was a hero and civil rights leader who left an indelible mark on both his community in the Bronx and the country as a whole. Renaming the post office after Dr. Brown will be a lasting tribute to his service to this country, and allow his legacy to live on in an enduring way. Now that this bill has passed Congress, I hope that the President swiftly signs it into law so that Dr. Roscoe Brown, Jr.’s name adorns the post office as soon as possible,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. “Dr. Roscoe Brown, Jr. devoted his entire career to serving others, first as a Tuskegee Airman during World War II and later on as an influential civil rights leader and esteemed professor and college president right here in the Bronx,” said Senator Gillibrand. “This designation would be a fitting tribute to an individual who never hesitated to answer the call of service – helping to keep our country safe, educating the next generation and moving his community and the country forward through his advocacy.” “I am proud to join Reps. Serrano and Engel to honor Dr. Brown who was a dear friend and hero. His service in World War II as a member of the prestigious Tuskegee Airmen who risked their lives fighting for our freedoms overseas even as they faced discrimination at home. This bill ensures that future generations will remember this remarkable man and be inspired by his great service to our country and community," said Congressman Rangel. I am pleased that both the House and Senate have approved the designation of the Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Post Office Building. Naming the Jerome Avenue Post Office for Dr. Brown is a lasting tribute to a great man who served his Country and fought for the rights of all Americans. Brown was more than just my constituent: he was a national hero, a scholar, and an inspiration. I am pleased that Bronx residents will have an opportunity to remember his many accomplishments every time they step into this post office, said Congressman Engel. Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. was a member of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen unit, where he conducted 68 missions and became one of the first African-American fighter pilots to shoot down a German fighter jet during World War II. His heroism earned him and his fellow airmen a Congressional Gold Medal from President George W. Bush in 2007. Dr. Brown earned his graduate and doctoral degrees from New York University, where he went on to serve as a professor of education and director of Afro-American Affairs. During the racial upheaval of the 1960s and 1970s, he served as an informal advisor to many Civil Rights leaders and helped found 100 Black Men, a civic organization advocating for better treatment of African-Americans in New York City. Dr. Brown also served as President of Bronx Community College for 17 years. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.12.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman José E. Serrano today announced his new office location in Washington, DC – Suite 2354 of the Rayburn House Office Building. Previously held by New Yorkers, Congressman Charlie Rangel for the past 21 years, and Hamilton Fish, Jr. from 1993-1994, the office will continue to serve New York City constituents with Congressman Serrano's and his staff's move. "I am pleased to announce we have moved to a new office to help continue serving Bronxites when they come to Washington, DC. It is an honor to take over an office with a long history of serving New Yorkers and that most recently belonged to my longtime friend and ally, legendary Congressman Charlie Rangel," said Congressman Serrano. "I am proud to be able to continue the tradition of progressive New York values at this location started by Congressman Rangel. Throughout the span of more than 20 years, Congressman Rangel and Congressman Fish served and welcomed thousands of New Yorkers at this office. I look forward to continuing this New York connection and providing visitors with better attention and services thanks to this location’s larger facilities and meeting spaces. I encourage Bronxites to come visit next time they are in town and take advantage of our open door policy!" ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement: “I am very disappointed that only $7 million was included in the continuing resolution to reimburse New York City for the costs of protecting the President-elect. This is a matter of basic fairness- other cities have been reimbursed in the past for identical costs- and now New York City should be treated the same way. New Yorkers alone should not have to bear what are really national costs. Myself, Ranking Member Lowey, Congresswoman Maloney and the other Members of the New York delegation will keep on fighting in the future for the remainder of this funding.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) and Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15) led 10 members of the New York Delegation on a letter to Congressional leadership in the House and Senate calling for funding to reimburse New York City’s taxpayers for the costs of securing President-elect Trump and his family prior to his inauguration on January 20. The delegation is requesting that the funds be included in the Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government that Congress is expected to pass this week. In the letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, the delegation states that, “New York City is faced with the unique and unprecedented costs associated with protecting the President-elect, and as in the past with other localities, should be reimbursed for such costs. In particular, we support an anomaly, requested by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), of $35 million within the Byrne-JAG program to provide relief for costs that can be attributed to safeguarding the President-elect since Election Day… New York City has already been forced to spend significant amounts of money to ensure the safety of the President-elect and his family….The anomaly requested by OMB in this latest continuing resolution will help ensure that public safety in New York City, and elsewhere, does not suffer as result of shifting resources from basic law enforcement activities to protecting the President-elect.” The letter was signed by: José E. Serrano Carolyn B. Maloney Nydia M. Velázquez Grace Meng Kathleen Rice Peter King Eliot Engel Jerrold Nadler Joseph Crowley Steve Israel Hakeem Jeffries Gregory W. Meeks Full text of the letter can be found below and a PDF can be found here. Dear Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McConnell, Democratic Leader Pelosi, and Democratic Leader Reid, As members of the New York delegation, we write to urge you to include funding to reimburse New York City for the costs of securing the President-elect prior to his inauguration in the upcoming continuing resolution. New York City is faced with the unique and unprecedented costs associated with protecting the President-elect, and as in the past with other localities, should be reimbursed for such costs. In particular, we support an anomaly, requested by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), of $35 million within the Byrne-JAG program to provide relief for costs that can be attributed to safeguarding the President-elect since Election Day. As you know, localities often must bear significant expenses associated with protecting a President-elect when he or she resides in or visits that location. From overtime for local law enforcement to street closures to upgrading security measures around particular properties, these costs can easily reach into the tens of millions of dollars. New York City has already been forced to spend significant amounts of money to ensure the safety of the President-elect and his family. Given New York City’s size and the central location of the President-elect’s residence, the impact on public transportation, commercial establishments, and tourist attractions is substantial. The local law enforcement personnel required to secure such a location is sizeable and unprecedented in the history of Presidential security. Moreover, because of the President-elect’s expressed desire to spend most of his time at his current residence, those costs are only expected to rise. The anomaly requested by OMB in this latest continuing resolution will help ensure that public safety in New York City, and elsewhere, does not suffer as result of shifting resources from basic law enforcement activities to protecting the President-elect. Reimbursing localities for the costs of securing the President-elect is not an unusual occurrence. The City of Chicago was reimbursed for the costs of protecting President-elect Obama by the Department of Justice. And Washington, DC is routinely reimbursed for some security costs associated with the inauguration. Given the reality that these costs will be incurred prior to the end of this continuing resolution, it is imperative that Congress include the necessary language to help ensure New York City is not forced to bear the financial brunt of protecting the President-elect. Thank you for your consideration of this urgent matter, and we look forward to your response. ###
12.01.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Serrano’s bill (H.R. 6282) to rename the Morris Heights post office after former Tuskegee Airman and Bronx Community College President Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. The bill passed by voice vote. Congressman Serrano introduced the legislation on September 28th, along with Congressmen Charles Rangel, Eliot Engel, and the rest of the New York Delegation in the House of Representatives. The legislation was approved unanimously by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and referred to the full House for consideration on November 16th. It now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. “I thank my colleagues for their support of legislation to rename the Morris Heights post office after Bronx legend, Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr.,” said Congressman Serrano. “Dr. Brown was a trailblazer who fought heroically for his country despite segregation in the Armed Forces during World War II and improved the lives of countless New Yorkers and Americans through his work in the Civil Rights Movement and the education field. He challenged the status quo and made the Bronx, New York City, and our country a better and more fair place for all. This is only small gesture compared to everything he did for our community, but it will help ensure his memory and spirit live on.” “I am proud to join Reps. Serrano and Engel to honor Dr. Brown who was a dear friend and hero. His service in World War II as a member of the prestigious Tuskegee Airmen who risked their lives fighting for our freedoms overseas even as they faced discrimination at home. This bill ensures that future generations will remember this remarkable man and be inspired by his great service to our country and community," said Representative Rangel. “I am pleased that the House approved the designation of the Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Post Office Building. Naming the Jerome Avenue Post Office for Dr. Brown is a lasting tribute to a great man who served his Country and fought for the rights of all Americans. It was an honor to represent Dr. Brown, a Riverdale resident, and I am pleased that Bronx residents will have an opportunity to remember his many accomplishments every time they step into this post office,” said Representative Engel. Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. was a member of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen unit, where he conducted 68 missions and became one of the first African-American fighter pilots to shoot down a German fighter jet during World War II. His heroism earned him and his fellow airmen a Congressional Gold Medal from President George W. Bush in 2007. Dr. Brown earned his graduate and doctoral degrees from New York University, where he went on to serve as a professor of education and director of Afro-American Affairs. During the racial upheaval of the 1960s and 1970s, he served as an informal advisor to many Civil Rights leaders and helped found 100 Black Men, a civic organization advocating for better treatment of African-Americans in New York City. Dr. Brown also served as President of Bronx Community College for 17 years. ###
11.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the passing of Fidel Castro: “Today, one of the most influential figures in the history of Latin America has passed away. Fidel Castro was a controversial leader but his rise to power represented hope for many in Cuba, and while the Cuban revolution was certainly accompanied with disenchantment and concerns over human rights, there were also many changes that helped those who had been previously voiceless on the island. “Fidel Castro was on the front lines of history for decades, and oftentimes defied the descriptions of both his critics and his advocates. He surprised many by peacefully transitioning out of power in 2008, something that many said he would never do. He later supported efforts to change Cuba’s relationship with the United States, another change many said he would never advocate for. “His passing marks the last vestiges in the Americas of the Cold War, a period that polarized the world and created division. There is no better example of this in our Hemisphere than the case of Cuba and the United States. With this chapter now completely behind us, it is time to look forwards towards the future of Cuba. That process has already started with the important reforms instituted by President Obama, and the reestablishment of diplomatic relations. The United States must resist the temptation to return to the ineffective policies of the past that only created division and distrust among our governments and peoples. “For more than 25 years in Congress I have called for the end of the Cuban embargo and for a more sensible policy towards our neighbors only 90 miles away. In 1995, I helped welcome Fidel Castro to the Bronx, a visit that showed that much more unites our countries and peoples than divides us. We must continue extending our hand of friendship- fostering engagement with our democracy is the most important argument for change elsewhere. “Today’s politicized statements won’t affect Fidel Castro’s legacy. History and future generations will judge him. “Let us keep Fidel Castro, his family, and the Cuban people in our thoughts and prayers today.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
11.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman José E. Serrano responded to statements made by Senator Jeff Sessions regarding Dominican-Americans that came to light over the weekend: “Senator Sessions’ history of extreme and troubling statements about minorities, civil rights, voting rights, and immigrants is well known and tremendously alarming for those of us who believe that the Department of Justice is supposed to protect the most vulnerable in our society. However, in the wake of his nomination as Attorney General, his full record is being examined in-depth, and more and more disturbing comments are coming to light. The weekend news that in 2006, he took time to slander Dominican-Americans on the floor of the United States Senate is completely outrageous,” said Congressman Serrano. “As the Representative of thousands of Dominican-Americans living in the Bronx, I condemn these statements by Senator Sessions. Dominican-Americans are a vital part of the immigrant mosaic in the Bronx and in New York City. They have revitalized many parts of the Bronx, and made our neighborhoods better and stronger. In short, immigrants from the Dominican Republic have added much to our borough, our city, and our nation. The Senator’s statements at best reflect ignorance of the Dominican-American community, and at worst, they reflect outright discriminatory views. “These statements add yet another thing that Senator Sessions must answer for in his nomination hearings. Taken together with his past views and votes on other issues, these statements should raise serious questions about his commitment to the core missions of the Justice Department. On its face, it appears that Senator Sessions may become the most anti-civil rights Attorney General in the last 50 years. I am worried that he will seek to undo much of the progress we have made over the past half-century in civil rights and voting rights law. As a Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the Department of Justice, I will do everything in my power to ensure that the Department, despite his leadership, will continue to adhere to its traditional missions like protecting civil rights, voting rights, and the vulnerable in our society. Should Senator Sessions be confirmed, I intend to ask him about his views on these issues, and I will fight against any efforts to move resources away from the core responsibilities of the Justice Department.” ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the Appropriations Committee.
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano made the following statement in response to initial announcements by the President-elect regarding his staffing and policy goals: “As Congress returns to Washington, I am deeply troubled by the President-elect’s announcements yesterday on some of his key White House staff and policy priorities. I condemn the appointment of Steve Bannon, a right-wing demagogue with a dangerous history of anti-Semitic statements and associations with the white nationalist movement, as the President-elect’s ‘Chief Strategist and Senior Counselor.’ That this man will even enter the White House with any say on policy is disturbing, and indicates that the new President will be listening to a voice of hate as he makes decisions affecting women, Latinos, African-Americans, Muslim-Americans, the LGBTQ community, Jewish-Americans, and many others. “On top of this, the President-elect announced last night that he would attempt to immediately deport 2-3 million immigrants upon entering office. In his view, that is the number of immigrants currently residing in the United States who are ‘criminal and have criminal records.’ That statement is an insult to millions of immigrants who have worked hard to improve this country and create an opportunity for themselves and their children. The vast majority of immigrants are law-abiding individuals who have come to this nation seeking a piece of the American Dream. Many of them pay things like Social Security taxes, even though they will never be able to participate in the program under current law. As a statement of policy, the President-elect’s statement last night is deeply troubling and offensive for immigrant communities. And it is another indication that the President-elect intends to stand by his destructive statements made on the campaign trail. “That is why Democrats in Congress will be doing everything in our power to call out these problems and come January, to try and prevent the President-elect from implementing plans that will harm the tens of millions of people that we represent. On Election Night, the President-elect indicated that he will seek to unify this nation in the aftermath of a divisive election. Unfortunately, his early actions underlie the likely truth- that he intends no such thing.” ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
11.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano made the following statement in response to the shooting of two New York Police Department (NYPD) officers in Parkchester. “I stand with NYPD in mourning the loss of one officer, and I wish the other officer a speedy recovery. Members of the NYPD put their lives on the line every day, and one officer made the ultimate sacrifice for our community today. His loss is a reminder of how much more we must to do keeps guns out of the hands of dangerous people. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of both officers.” ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
11.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano, U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and a bipartisan coalition of members of the New York Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Jay Williams—the Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce —in support of full funding for GrowNYC’s Greenmarket Regional Food Hub grant proposal for their Hunts Point location. This federal funding would, in combination with previous support from New York State, allow GrowNYC to move its operation into an expanded, state-of-the-art facility, and enable the Food Hub to move roughly 20 million pounds of fresh local produce per year. More importantly, the expansion will increase access to fresh fruits and vegetables for Bronxites, and provide more jobs for Bronx residents- including 150 construction jobs and 95 permanent living wage jobs. The Food Hub currently operates in the Hunts Point neighborhood of the Bronx as a wholesale marketplace for 41 small- and medium-sized producers from seven states- New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Vermont, Massachusetts, Maine, and Florida. “I strongly support GrowNYC’s Greenmarket Regional Food Hub proposal, as it would allow the Food Hub to expand its operations to help local farmers, provide families with access to healthy food, and bring permanent living wage jobs to the Hunts Point neighborhood of the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “By increasing access to fresh and healthy produce, the Greenmarket Regional Food Hub will help improve the health and quality of life for Bronx residents, while expanding jobs and economic opportunities in our borough.” The full text of the letter, including signatories, is below: Jay Williams, Assistant Secretary of Commerce Economic Development Administration U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Assistant Secretary Williams: As representatives from the state of New York, we strongly support the full funding of GrowNYC’s proposal for the Greenmarket Regional Food Hub, in the Bronx, NY, from the Public Works program. The primary purpose of the Public Works program is to help distressed communities revitalize, expand, and upgrade their physical infrastructure. The Greenmarket Regional Food Hub project fulfills that purpose and more. Located in one of our country’s most poverty stricken areas, the Greenmarket Regional Food Hub project will increase access to fresh healthy food and increase market access for small and medium farmers in our nation’s largest population center – a win-win for consumers and producers. Additionally, the Food Hub will create 95 permanent living wage jobs and 150 construction jobs. Currently, the Food Hub operates in the Hunts Point neighborhood of the Bronx as a 5,000 square foot (SF) wholesale marketplace for small and medium sized producers. The Food Hub has 41 producers selling products within its marketplace from seven states – including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Vermont, Massachusetts, Maine, and Florida. Annually, the Food Hub moves three million pounds of food to restaurants, retailers, senior centers, nonprofits, and community farmer’s markets. A fully funded proposal will allow GrowNYC to move its operation to an expanded, state of the art facility in the South Bronx. The new 75,000 SF building will include 60,000 SF of food aggregation and distribution space, including cold storage units, U.S. Department of Agriculture compliant processing space, and 15,000 SF of offices and operational areas. The remaining 45,000 SF of the lot will be devoted to the wholesale farmers’ market. In total, the expanded Food Hub will move roughly 20 million pounds of local produce a year when at full capacity. New York State has already committed $15 million to the project and $3 million has been secured from private sources. Funding from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) represents the last piece of the necessary financing. The facility will create a permanent home for Greenmarket Co., GrowNYC’s existing local food distribution program, as well as provide crucial infrastructure for local farmers and food producers. When completed, the Food Hub will serve two critical functions. First, it will provide small and mid-sized farmers access to New York City’s vast wholesale marketplace, and by doing so, keep hundreds of farmers farming and preserve thousands of acres of farmland. Second, and equally important, it will allow GrowNYC to dramatically expand the amount and variety of produce it provides to community partners and distribute via GrowNYC’s food access programs like Youthmarket and the Fresh Food Box in the Bronx and elsewhere. This proposal is a win for underserved neighborhoods and it is a win for our hardworking farmers looking to expand their business in one of our country’s largest markets. We hope that EDA will give GrowNYC’s proposal your full consideration. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Nydia M. Velázquez Gregory W. Meeks Joseph Crowley Grace Meng Carolyn B. Maloney Yvette D. Clarke Charles B. Rangel Eliot L. Engel Sean Patrick Maloney Charles E. Schumer Kirsten Gillibrand Jerrold Nadler Hakeem S. Jeffries Paul Tonko Brian Higgins Chris Gibson Steve Israel Elise M. Stefanik Tom Reed Lee M. Zeldin John Katko Kathleen M. Rice Louise McIntosh Slaughter Peter T. King Richard Hanna ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
10.31.2016	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Reps. José E. Serrano (D-NY), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), and Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) sent a letter to U.S. Census Bureau Population Division Chief Karen Humes urging the Bureau to amend a proposed rule, which would allow states to count incarcerated persons at prison facilities at which they are incarcerated on Census Day, instead of their last known address. The Members wrote, “the Bureau’s process of counting prisoners where prisoners are imprisoned, instead of at their last known address before incarceration allows state governments to participate in prison gerrymandering. The crafters of legislative districts engage in prison gerrymandering when they include prisons in districts where none of the incarcerated reside.” State and federal correctional facilities held an estimated 1.6 million prisoners on December 31, 2013, including a disproportionately high number of African American and Latino men who often reside in low-income urban areas before entering prison. Failing to count incarcerated individuals in their home communities also affects the federal resources these communities receive. According to the Bureau, the census helps determine the allocation of more than $400 billion in federal dollars annually, including funding for critical projects like new schools and hospitals. As a result, federal funding is shifted from prisoners’ home districts to the district in which the prison is located, which causes their families, neighbors and communities to suffer at the expense of communities to which they have no ties. Earlier this year, the Federal District Court for Florida’s Northern District ruled that Jefferson County, Florida violated its residents’ 14th Amendment right by including the prison population in its district. Some states have enacted legislation to prevent prison gerrymandering—requiring or encouraging local governments to count incarcerated citizens in their district of last known address rather than the district in which they are incarcerated. While the proposed rule would allow the states that have enacted legislation to prevent prison gerrymandering to continue doing so, the Members called on the Census Bureau to set a federal standard to prevent prison gerrymandering in all states. The Members continued, “The Bureau should be commended for its proposed efforts in this matter. However, it is clear the Census needs to do more to prevent prison gerrymandering by counting incarcerated prisoners at their last known address before incarceration, and not at their prison address.” The letter was also signed by Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Stacey E. Plaskett (D-VI).
10.28.2016	The Bronx, NY — This week, Congressman Serrano held the third annual African Heritage Celebration with local community leaders, organizations, and entertainment groups from the Bronx. Congressman Serrano recognized the work and contributions of various individuals and organizations that work with the African Diaspora in the Bronx and throughout the rest of New York City and presented them with statements for the Congressional Record. The awardees represented a wide range of sectors, from health organizations to religious institutions to community service organizations. Congressman Serrano also announced his new membership in the Congressional African Immigrant and Diaspora Caucus. The 2016 honorees were: Mr. Joseph K. Awadjie, Chairman (Emeritus) 2014-2016, The City University of New York –Student Senate African Services Committee, Inc. (Asfaha Hadera, Founder/Executive Director and Kim Nichols, Co-Executive Director, accepting) Dr. Jane Edward, Clinical Assistant Professor, Fordham University Bronx Lebanon Hospital/MLK Health Center - Diaspora Initiative (Octavio Marin, VP for Long Term Care and Ambulatory Services, accepting) Nkumu Isaac Katalay & The “Life Long Project” Band Bakary Camara, Licensed Real Estate Agent and Community Leader Scott Auwater, Assistant Executive Director, BronxWorks Mount Hope Mosque – Islamic Sunna Wal Jamaa (Imam Issah Lamin Yusuf accepting) “I am thrilled to once again be able to recognize the work and positive impact that many African community leaders are having in our community and to host the third annual Bronx African Heritage celebration. The Bronx’s African community is growing and thriving and their presence only makes our borough stronger, as the work of the individuals and organizations recognized today clearly show. We must continue to support and encourage their work,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
10.21.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded the Osborne Association in the Bronx $1,300,000 to support their Working Parents activities. Responsible Fatherhood funding helps fathers returning home from prison reestablish and/or deepen their connection to their children and/or partners. “Returning home from prison can be a difficult process for both adults and children in a family. The Responsible Fatherhood initiative provides men returning home with the counseling and support they need to successfully reintegrate to their family and community. This generous federal funding will help men in our community successfully get back on the right track after serving in prison and improve their relationships with their families,” said Congressman Serrano. “Osborne is grateful to Congressman Serrano for his support of Responsible Fatherhood and HHS’s efforts to create economic opportunities for people coming home from prison. Economic stability offers our working participants the opportunity to be role models to their children and other family members. Through this support, our programs teach and strengthen consequential thinking, so fathers learn new ways of being that benefit their children, their families, and themselves,” said Andre Ward, Osborne Association Director of Workforce Development. ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the Appropriations Committee.
10.11.2016	NYC Parks Commissioner Mitchell J. Silver, FAICP, today joined Congressman José E. Serrano, Office of Wetlands, Oceans and Watersheds Deputy Director David Evans, Amtrak Senior Vice President/Chief of Government Affairs and Corporate Communications Joe McHugh, Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr., Assembly Member Marcos Crespo, Council Member Rafael Salamanca, NYC DDC Commissioner Dr. Feniosky Peña-Mora, and chair of the Bronx River Alliance Veronica Vanterpool, for a very special groundbreaking event to celebrate the restoration of the river, and to officially begin the greenway project that will close the critical South Bronx gap in the Bronx River Greenway. This ceremony celebrates the beginning of a multi-phase project that will restore the shoreline of the Bronx River, extend Starlight Park, and close a major gap in the Bronx River Greenway. The first stage of this work will re-naturalize armored shorelines, restore wetlands, and reduce the vulnerability of Bronx communities to future coastal storms. The second stage will construct a critical link between Starlight and Concrete Plant Parks via paths and pedestrian bridges - one crossing Amtrak lines at E. 172 Street, and another crossing the Bronx River which will extend Starlight Park southward to Westchester Avenue. The connection will also incorporate the restored parcels completed in the first stage. This project was made possible through a collective of federal, state, and local agencies, with the active support of the Urban Waters Federal Partnership. “The Bronx River Greenway provides the unique opportunity to walk, jog, run or ride a bike along the only freshwater river in New York City,” said NYC Parks Commissioner Mitchell J. Silver, FAICP. “Through the collaboration of our partners at the Bronx River Alliance, our elected officials and community stakeholders, we’ve made a tremendous investment in restoring the Bronx River and creating new opportunities for residents in the surrounding neighborhoods. This project will only serve to push forward the goals of our continued efforts.” “As someone who fought for the revitalization of the Bronx River and the greening of the Bronx for many years, I am proud to help break ground on this important project to close the South Bronx gap in the Bronx River Greenway. Families deserve access to green spaces regardless of where they live or how much money they earn. The restoration of the Bronx River and creation of the Bronx River Greenway is a story of the Bronx’s own comeback - renewing not just the river, but the community as a whole. This project is an important part of that vision and it will help make sure Bronxites have safe, continuous access to the parks along the Greenway,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. "On behalf of the Urban Waters Federal Partnership, EPA is proud to be present to recognize the great accomplishment of local leaders to make the Bronx River Greenway vision come to life," said David Evans, Deputy Director of the Office of Wetlands, Oceans & Watersheds at US Environmental Protection Agency. “Amtrak is pleased to be a partner in the Bronx River Greenway project,” said Joe McHugh, Amtrak Senior Vice President, Chief of Government Affairs and Corporate Communications. “It’s taken a number of years and a tremendous amount of perseverance from all parties to bring this project to a reality and it will provide a critical link in the Bronx River Greenway.” “The Bronx River Greenway is one of the jewels of our borough, and I have supported its continued revitalization at every turn, going back to my days as a member of the New York State Assembly through today. These new upgrades will provide critical new recreation amenities for South Bronx residents, and I am proud to have partnered with NYC Parks, as well as my colleagues in government, to provide the Bronx River Greenway with the critical capital funding it requires,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. "Every time I visit Starlight Park, I'm in awe with how beautiful the Bronx River is, and that it's in our own backyard," exclaimed Council Member Rafael Salamanca. "This new phase of the Bronx River Greenway will only add additional opportunities for our families to enjoy their Bronx River, and that is incredibly exciting." “DDC is very proud to be part of an effort to not only link communities along the Bronx River, but to also link the Bronx neighborhoods surrounding Starlight Park,” said New York City Department of Design and Construction (DDC) Commissioner Feniosky Peña-Mora. “With three more new pedestrian bridges and additional entry points to the park, this project will bring together neighbors who have been cut off from each other by expressways and train lines. I look forward to the day when the Bronx River Greenway runs the length of the river, and Starlight Park is the hub of a rejoined community.” “Today, we celebrate a key milestone that provides Bronx residents and visitors with improved connectivity along the Bronx River Greenway. After years of advocacy between community partners, government leaders and elected officials, the groundbreaking for Phase 2 of Starlight Park brings us closer to our goal for continuous access to some of the boroughs best recreation and transportation resources along the Bronx River,” said Veronica Vanterpool, Chair of the Bronx River Alliance. Mayor de Blasio allocated $12 million toward the first stage of this project and an additional $4.4 million was awarded by the Hurricane Sandy Coastal Resiliency Competitive Grant Program. The program, funded by the Hurricane Sandy disaster relief appropriation through the Department of the Interior (DOI), is administered by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. The US Department of Transportation awarded $10 million toward the second stage of the project through their Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant program, while an additional $8.67 million was allocated by the New York State Department of Transportation through the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement (CMAQ) Program. In addition, Congressman José E. Serrano allocated $3.9 million, Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. allocated $658,000 and State Senator Ruben Diaz Sr. provided $200,000 through the Dormitory Authority State of New York (DASNY) program. This project will complete one of the final missing links in the Bronx River Greenway, providing thousands of Bronx residents with access to Starlight Park and the Bronx River House, and also creating new opportunities to enjoy the improved waterway. The NYC Department of Design and Construction is managing the project on behalf of NYC Parks, and The RBA Group will serve as the design consultant.
10.06.2016	Washington, DC – With news that President Obama has directed national security agencies to promote diversity in their ranks in a Presidential Memorandum released this week, Representatives Crowley and Serrano applauded the directive as an important step forward to increase the number of Hispanics and other minorities in our nation’s national security ranks. Congressmen Crowley and Serrano included an amendment to the House Intelligence Authorization Bill providing national security training grants to Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) to prepare students for careers in national security, and have highlighted the need to train minority students and increase their employment opportunities in national security agencies. “People with different backgrounds bring different perspectives and skills to the table. Yet the number of Hispanics and other minorities at the highest ranking diplomatic, military, and intelligence positions remains low. As global challenges only get more complex, our nation’s national security agencies must cultivate and draw from the diverse pool of candidates ready to serve. I applaud President Obama for taking this important step and for recognizing that increased diversity in our nation’s security agencies will only make America stronger and safer,” said Representatives Crowley and Serrano. ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
10.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Representatives Charles B Rangel (NY-13), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Nydia Velazquez (NY-7), Steve Israel (NY-3), Daniel Donovan (NY-11), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Richard Hanna (NY-22), Pete King (NY-2), Yvette Clarke (NY-9), Grace Meng (NY-6), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Gregory Meeks (NY-5), Tom Reed (NY-23), Chris Collins (NY-27), Eliot Engel (NY-16), John Katko (NY-24), Chris Gibson (NY-19) and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) in a bipartisan letter urged President Obama to address Canada’s restrictive and arbitrary trade barriers and preserve market access as negotiated under the NAFTA agreement. “We must take all necessary actions to eliminate unfair barriers to trade and preserve access for our dairy farmers. New York dairy companies have made substantial investments to produce a product intended specifically for export to Canadian cheese manufacturers. This investment and the sales that followed were made in response to the duty-free access secured under the North American Free Trade Agreement,” lawmakers wrote in their joint letter. “Dairy companies from our state indicated they have already lost considerable export sales as a result of pricing policies. The proposed regulations limit the opportunity of U.S. dairy exporters. It is imperative that the Administration take decisive action and reject Canada’s restrictive trade policies and reinforce the value of concessions previously secured under NAFTA.” The full text of their joint letter to President Obama is included below: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write as a bipartisan Congressional delegation on behalf of the New York dairy industry that faces a significant threat to its access to foreign markets. New York State is the third largest milk producer in the United States and exports the equivalent of more than 13 million gallons of milk each year. We are concerned that Canada’s National Ingredients Strategy and Ontario’s highly-targeted special Class 6 pricing programs were constructed to limit our dairy farmer’s ability to export to Canada, New York’s most important foreign market. We urge you to direct U.S. Trade Representative Froman to address this issue with his Canadian counterparts. We must take all necessary actions to eliminate these unfair barriers to trade and preserve access to this market. New York dairy companies have made substantial investments to produce an ultra-filtered milk product (UF85) intended for export to Canadian cheese manufacturers. This investment and the sales that followed were made in response to the duty-free access for UF85 secured under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Earlier this year, the Ontario Farm Products Marketing Commission (OFPMC) proposed a modification of Ontario Regulation 753 which created a new milk price class for UF85 with a base price derived from the cost of imported products. This artificially eliminated the price advantage of the efficiently produced American UF85 while billing references protect the value of the Canada Class 3 product. Also troubling are recent proposals to change the quantities of UF85, or Class 6 product, permitted in different types of cheese production, which could further erode U.S. export opportunities. The Dairy Farmers of Ontario acknowledge in their Submission to the Advisory Committee for Milk dated March 7, 2016, that these proposals invite a World Trade Organization (WTO) challenge. Dairy companies from our state indicate they have already lost considerable export sales as a result of the Ontario Class 6 pricing policy. The proposed National Ingredients Strategy appears to take this concept and expand it significantly while retaining the same underlying objective, to limit the opportunity of U.S. dairy exporters. It is imperative that the Administration take decisive action and reject Canada’s restrictive trade policies and reinforce the value of concessions previously secured under NAFTA. Thank you for your attention to this important issue and to ensure equitable and fair market access for U.S. dairy producers. Sincerely, ###
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that eight health care centers in the Bronx have been awarded a total of $811,493 in Health Center Cluster grants through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). This federal funding will support a community health centers that provide a wide range of high-quality health care services and predominantly serve uninsured or underinsured patients. “I strongly believe that health care is a right for every single American. This vital funding will allow several community-based health care centers and clinics to continue providing primary and preventative health care to Bronxites that depend on their services,” said Congressman Serrano. “Health Center Cluster grants are critical in helping remove barriers access to healthcare and guaranteeing high quality service in underserved communities like the Bronx. As a member of the Appropriations committee, I will continue to do all that I can to protect Health Center funding so no individual is denied the health care they need and deserve.” The $811,493 in Health Center Cluster Grants will be distributed to the following centers in the South Bronx: Urban Health Plan, Inc. - $144,493 Bronx-Lebanon Integrated Services System - $177,229 Bronx Community Health Network, Inc. – $159,709 HELP/Project Samaritan Services Corp. - $51,882 La Casa De Salud, Inc. – $42,772 Union Community Health Center, Inc. - $81,385 Vocational Instructional Project Community Services, Inc. – $41,371 Morris Heights Health Center – $112,652 ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-Bronx), Congressman Charles B. Rangel (D-Manhattan), and Congressman Eliot L. Engel (D-Bronx), along with all other Members of the New York Delegation in the House of Representatives, introduced legislation to rename the Morris Heights Post Office, located at 2024 Jerome Ave in the Bronx, after Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. who passed away on July 2, 2016, at the age of 94. The facility will be known as the ‘Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Post Office Building.’ “Today, I am proud to introduce legislation to honor the life and legacy of my dear friend, Dr. Roscoe Brown, by renaming the Morris Heights Post Office in his honor. Dr. Brown was a revered figure in the Bronx and the rest of the country for his important work in education and advancing civil rights,” said Congressman Serrano. “For years to come, the Post Office will serve as a reminder for future generations of the countless contributions this great man made to our community, the City, and the country. Dr. Brown left the world in a much better place than he found it, and it is our hope that this small gesture will help keep his spirit and memory alive in the Bronx.” “I am proud to join my colleagues in honoring the life and legacy of Dr. Roscoe Brown, a true hero, community leader, educator, and dear friend. I was honored to follow in Dr. Brown’s footsteps as a solider in the Korean War, and later have the privilege of sponsoring a bill that awarded him and the Tuskegee Airmen a Congressional Gold Medal for their patriotism and heroism in World War II. Dr. Brown's selflessness and generosity were lifelong endeavors, as he left a lasting impact in my congressional district that continues to be felt today,” said Congressman Rangel. “Dr. Roscoe Brown was more than just my constituent: he was a national hero, a scholar, and an inspiration. The breadth of Dr. Brown’s service to his nation and community is considerable,” said Congressman Engel. “He was one of the venerable Tuskegee Airmen, flying 68 combat missions during World War II. He was a trusted voice during the civil rights movement in the 1960’s and 70’s, who later served as President of 100 Black Men, a civic organization that worked to improve the lives of African Americans. He obtained his doctoral degree from New York University and later became director of Afro-American Affairs and a professor of education there. And as impressive as those feats are, they are only but a very small sample of Dr. Brown’s accomplishments and the difference he made. I am honored to join my colleagues, Rep. Rangel and Rep. Serrano, in honoring Dr. Brown’s legacy by introducing this measure to rename the Morris Heights Post Office the Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Post Office Building.” Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. was a Tuskegee Airman and one of the first African Americans to fly a combat mission during World War II. In 2007, President George W. Bush presented him and his fellow Airmen with the Congressional Gold Medal for their heroism. Dr. Brown was also a trusted leader during the civil rights movement and strongly advocated for better treatment of African Americans in New York City during the racial discord that plagued the 1960s and 19070s. He went on to become a distinguished educator at New York University and served as President of Bronx Community College for 17 years, working to increase local partnerships with the private sector and expanding opportunities for non-traditional students. An avid runner, he helped found Bronx Community College’s Annual Hall of Fame 5k and 10k races benefiting the institution during his tenure. Dr. Brown is survived by his four children: Denis, Donald, Doris, and Dianne. ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.21.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano was joined by 28 Democratic members of Congress in introducing the Immigration Courts Bail Reform Act, legislation to reform the bail setting and detention processes at the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice. “Immigrants that pose no threat to U.S. security should not have to sit in detention facilities simply because they are too poor to pay bail. The current immigrant detention and bail setting system is not only unfair and inhumane, but it also results in millions in taxpayer money wasted every year holding in detention individuals that don’t belong behind bars. The Immigration Courts Bail Reform Act will reform the bail setting process to make our immigration system more fair and efficient.” Increased attention is being given to the constitutional implications of incarcerating individuals solely based on their inability to pay a bond amount or fine as justice systems across the country address disparities and problems in the bail process. This legislation aims to hold the nation’s immigration system to the same standards as our criminal justice systems. Currently, many immigrants –including some seeking asylum—are held in a detention facility for no reason other than they are too poor to pay the set bond amount. The process lacks basic safeguards to protect indigent immigrants who do not pose a danger to the community and who are not a flight risk. Neither the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), which is in charge of the initial bail setting process, nor the Department of Justice (DOJ), which makes a custody redetermination in an immigration court setting at the immigrants’ request, have official policies to take into consideration an individuals’ financial ability to pay when setting a bond amount. Furthermore, these policies result in a significant waste of financial resources by the federal government, which ends up paying for the detention of individuals who have no real need to be detained. The current process also potentially violates several provisions of the Constitution, including the 8th Amendment’s Excessive Bail Clause, and the Due Process Clause of the 5th Amendment. All of these concerns are currently part of a class action lawsuit recently filed against both federal agencies by the American Civil Liberties Union. The Immigration Courts Bail Reform Act will create the necessary safeguards to ensure that our immigration system is more efficient, effective, and fair. The legislation will: Require DHS and DOJ to consider the financial ability to pay in setting any bond amount Eliminate the minimum bond amount currently in statute Create a presumption that alternatives to detention are the preferred method of ensuring the appearance of an individual before an immigration judge Create procedural standards to guarantee prompt bond hearings and decisions “The Department of Justice recently recognized in a federal court filing that it is unconstitutional to hold someone behind bars in our criminal justice system for no reason other than their poverty level. These same concerns should apply to our nation’s immigration courts. This bill will ensure that the Department of Justice institutes reforms to address the serious problems that our nation’s indigent immigrants are facing in our detention system, and help ensure that fewer people are locked up while awaiting their immigration case,” added Serrano. ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on a letter he and several colleagues sent to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), calling on the agency to extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for eligible nationals of Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone for eighteen months, from November 21, 2016 through May 21, 2018. Extended TPS will allow these countries to continue their recovery from the Ebola epidemic that has killed 11,000 people since 2014. The lead drafters of the letter also included Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke of New York and Congressman Donald M. Payne, Jr., of New Jersey. In 2014, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson authorized people from countries that were threatened by the Ebola virus and were already in the United States to apply for TPS to remain here. Reports from public health agencies and government authorities indicate that conditions in Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone still remain unsafe, with a lack of proper medical care available for many people and severe economic disruptions. “The Ebola outbreak remains a threat in Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone. Immigrants from these countries, including many in my district, need an extension of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) in order to remain safe in the United States, to allow their home nations to rebuild their infrastructure and continue their recovery, and to help family members with financial resources necessary to help prevent the spread of the disease. I join my colleagues in urging Secretary Johnson to extend the TPS designation for these three nations,” said Congressman Serrano. “As the representative of a community that includes many people from West Africa, I know families who want to remain here until the crisis has been resolved,” said Congresswoman Clarke. “These countries are still working to improve their public health infrastructure to prevent future outbreaks from occurring. Extended TPS will allow nationals of Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone who are here to avoid the risk of contracting Ebola as the recovery continues. In addition, these individuals will have the ability to support the recovery with remittances to their families that are critical to providing them with the resources to protect themselves from the Ebola virus. We call on Secretary Johnson to continue this program, and we thank him for his previous efforts to assist the people of West Africa.” “As Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone continue to deal with the outbreak of Ebola, they are not yet in a position to receive those foreign nationals currently in the United States,” said Congressman Payne, Jr. “Allowing nationals from Ebola-affected countries to temporarily remain in the United States will not only ease the burdens on West African nations as they recover, it will protect those nationals from the harsh and unsafe conditions that persist in their home countries. Reauthorizing Temporary Protected Status is a humane and necessary measure in addressing the Ebola crisis. I’m proud that my district includes a large West African community, and I will continue to fight to make sure they have the necessary support.” The letter was also signed by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Congresswoman Karen Bass, Congressman James P. McGovern, Congressman John Yarmuth, Joseph Crowley, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren, Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva, Congressman Chris Van Hollen, Congressman David Cicilline, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Congresswoman Gwen Moore, Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Congressman Paul Tonko, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Congressman John Conyers, Jr., Congressman Luis Gutiérrez, Congressman William Pascrell, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks, Congressman Charles B. Rangel, Congressman Michael M. Honda, Congressman Jim McDermott, Congressman Steve Israel, Congresswoman Grace Meng, and Congressman Keith M. Ellison. “I join my colleagues in urging the Department of Homeland Security to extend Temporary Protected Status for Ebola-affected countries in Africa,” said Senator Gillibrand. “While our medical, military, and humanitarian aid communities have already done a substantial amount of work containing this devastating illness, many children and families are still living through severe social and economic distress in the aftermath of the outbreak – and the virus itself has still not yet been eradicated. An extended Temporary Protected Status would be an important step as the world continues to help Ebola-affected countries recover.” “Michigan is home to a diverse community of immigrants, including many from the West African diaspora,” said Congressman Conyers. “So in the wake of the 2014 West African Ebola crisis, I urged the United States to take a vital role in helping Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea respond as the outbreak spread devastation and prompted an international public health emergency. Granting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to these countries has been a key component of our response, crucially alleviating the strain on already fragile West African medical systems. Now, only two years later, Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea still face daunting challenges as they work to recover and rebuild and need our continued support and commitment to succeed. In this spirit, I urge Secretary Johnson to approve an 18-month re-authorization of TPS for citizens of Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone residing in the United States.” “We seek to protect the humanity of people who need a safe haven in America as their countries work on creating an infrastructure that can support their safe return,” said Congressman Rush. “This is an issue of compassion.” “Extending TPS to immigrants from Ebola-impacted parts of Africa is the humane, just and appropriate course of action,” said Congresswoman Velázquez. “Given what that part of the world has recovered from in recent years and the weaknesses in their public health infrastructure these families should receive Temporary Protected Status. It is crises like these that this program was created for.” “Ebola continues to pose a very serious threat to Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. While progress has been made, the health and safety infrastructure in those areas is still recovering,” said Congressman Crowley. “Extending TPS will give critical reassurance to people from Ebola-affected nations and will help as these countries work to get back on their feet during this difficult time.” “Residents in Maryland sought and received refuge in our state while the public health infrastructure is being rebuilt in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone,” said Congresswoman Edwards. “We must continue to extend TPS to these individuals, unaffected by the Ebola virus, to avoid an unnecessary humanitarian and public health risk.” ###
09.19.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano today led a letter signed by 40 Members of Congress urging the Secretary of Homeland Security to expand access to telephones at Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and ICE contract detention facilities. Earlier this year, ICE settled a lawsuit in the Northern District of California in which they committed to numerous reforms to expand access to telephones at four detention facilities. The letter urges the Department to expand to all ICE detention facilities these important reforms, which include: more telephones, free calls to detainees, more access to toll free numbers for all individuals in detention, increased education for detainees of telephone policies, and access to phone booths and other more private locations to ensure privacy. “Many individuals in immigration detention are held at facilities far from where their trial will take place and from where their family lives. Because of this, access to telephones is crucial in allowing these individuals to obtain legal counsel or build a case in immigration court. Everyone, regardless of their immigration status, deserves a fair trial. Expanding the important reforms that were recently implemented in parts of California will ensure that all individuals that have been detained by ICE have access to these basic rights. Now that this important precedent has been set, we urge ICE to commit to expanding these policies to all detention facilities nationwide,” said Congressman Serrano. Letter Text: September XX, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson, We write to urge you to commit to reforming the telephone access policies at Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and ICE contract detention facilities nationwide. Easy and meaningful access to telephones is crucial to ensure fairness for detained individuals who are seeking to obtain counsel and to review their options in a removal proceeding. The agency recently agreed to a number of important reforms in response to a lawsuit in the Northern District of California, and we believe that ICE should institute those reforms at all facilities. Earlier this year, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement entered into a settlement agreement in the case of Lyon v. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The agreement, which was executed in June, mandates reforms to expand telephone access and privacy for individuals detained at four detention facilities in California. We applaud the agency for settling this case, and we believe it will provide many detained individuals with the ability to obtain effective counsel and mount vigorous defenses in their immigration proceedings, consistent with their constitutional rights. However, we remain concerned by the tens of thousands of individuals detained by ICE in facilities that do not fall under this settlement agreement. That is why we write to urge ICE to commit to expanding these policies to all detention facilities nationwide. The issues that affect these four detention facilities are common to many ICE and ICE contract detention facilities, and we believe that a commitment to reform will prevent further costly litigation and ensure the constitutional rights of all individuals detained by ICE. Access to telephones is a crucial element for those seeking to obtain counsel and mount a defense at their removal hearing (whether with or without counsel). Because many detainees are housed at detention facilities far from their city of residence, and far from the immigration court that will eventually hear their case, it is difficult to develop a defense absent adequate phone access. In the facilities at issue in the Lyon case, unnecessary physical and technical barriers (such as phone systems that blocked detainees from leaving voicemails or navigating automated answering systems, limited their ability to make calls during business hours, failed to provide privacy for confidential conversations, offered no access to international calls, and provided no regular methods for scheduling calls or receiving messages from outside callers) impeded basic tasks such as obtaining and staying in contact with counsel, gathering relevant documents, and securing witnesses. Even in the situations where ICE had created workarounds to partially address these deficiencies, many detainees were not fully aware of their telephone rights. Moreover, for those who are indigent, even making a phone call can be next to impossible without access to free case-related phone calls. That is why these reforms are so important. Although we are not asking for a specific timeline in making these changes nationwide, we do ask for your pledge to ensure that all detainees can benefit from these reforms. We thank you for your consideration and look forward to your response. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.16.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Serrano joined millions of Americans in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month (HHM), which runs every year from September 15 through October 15. “We are celebrating the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, when we gather as a nation to celebrate and honor the history, culture, and contributions of the Latino community since before the United States as we know it today was founded. “We take this time to remember the countless and extraordinary contributions that Hispanics have made, and continue to make, to our nation. Over the centuries, American life has only been strengthened and enriched by Latinos’ presence in this great land and by their contributions in every area – from business to the arts, from the military and government to education. “Latinos are an integral part of our nation, and as we approach November, we must make sure that their right to vote is not denied. There are 14 states where new discriminatory voting laws will negatively impact a presidential election for the first time. While some states have rolled back restrictive laws, many remain in place. A vote is a voice, and no citizen eligible to vote should be denied this right. “In Congress, we must continue working to develop and pass legislation designed to help Hispanics improve their lives. I urge our Republicans in Congress to join Democrats in developing legislation, especially comprehensive immigration reform, to better ensure that the Latino community in our country can fully enjoy and contribute to everything this great nation has to offer. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.07.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today provided information to constituents on the soon to open National Museum of African American History and Culture. The museum, part of the Smithsonian Institution, will open to the public on September 24, 2016. “I am thrilled that we are so close to the realization of the National Museum of African American History and Culture, which will open in just a few weeks. This museum is a milestone in the history of our country, as the first national museum solely dedicated to the history, life, and culture of African Americans in this country. The important stories and vital contributions of the African American community to our society will now have a permanent home here in our Nation’s capital. This is a long overdue recognition and tribute to the African American community and it is a day we should all celebrate. I encourage everyone interested to join this important milestone by participating in the opening activities or visiting the museum,” said Congressman Serrano. The following information, provided by the Smithsonian Institution, is available to constituents who are interested in attending the opening events or who may want to visit the museum at a later date. Further information can be found at: https://nmaahc.si.edu/ Dedication Ceremony and Opening Weekend Activities Dedication Ceremony- The public is invited to participate in the dedication ceremony on September 24, 2016 from the grounds of the Washington Monument and on Jumbotrons around the site. Visitors can gain entry to the monument grounds only through security screening at access points at 17th Street N.W. and Constitution Avenue N.W. or at 17th Street S.W. and Independence Avenue S.W. Please note, there will be no general public admission to the grounds of the museum itself during the dedication ceremony. Interested parties can request timed entry passes to the museum for Saturday, Sept. 24, 1 p.m.–8 p.m., and Sunday, Sept. 25, 7 a.m.–midnight. (information on obtaining timed entry passes below) As part of the opening activities, the Museum will also be offering Timed Passes for extended hours Monday, September 26th through Sunday, October 2nd and for the months of November and December. Freedom Sounds Festival- Freedom Sounds: A Community Celebration is a free festival taking place on the Washington Monument grounds to celebrate the opening of the museum. The festival will include musical performances, spoken word, oral-history activities, storytelling and interactive workshops. The festival will be open from: Friday, September 23, 2016, 12:00pm – 5:00pm Saturday, September 24, 2016, 12:00pm – 5:00pm and 6:00pm – 9:00pm Sunday, September 25, 2016, 12:00pm – 5:00pm and 6:00pm – 9:00pm Visiting the Museum Timed passes are required for entrance into the museum and will continue as needed to accommodate demand. Timed passes will be available free-of-charge through nmaahc.si.edu. The passes are timed at 15-minute intervals. There will be no limit on the amount of time visitors may spend inside the museum. Visitors will still proceed through a security check upon entering the museum. Due to overwhelming demand the museum will now be open to the public for additional hours over the opening weekend, Saturday, Sept. 24, 1 p.m.–8 p.m., and Sunday, Sept. 25, 7 a.m.–midnight. The following methods are the only way for constituents to secure passes. Online Free timed passes for visitors are available online at nmaahc.si.edu. There is a limit of six free timed passes per email address. Toll-free Phone Up to six free timed passes obtained through the Customer Support Center will be emailed or mailed in advance. Contact ETIX Customer Support Center at (800) 514-3849 or (919) 653-0443. Hours of operation: Monday–Saturday, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., and Sunday, noon to 8 p.m. EDT. Nonprofit Groups School, student, and community-based organizations with groups of 10 or more may obtain free advance timed passes by phone. It is recommended groups provide at least one adult chaperone for every five students under the age of 18. Contact ETIX Customer Support Center at (800) 514-3849 or (919) 653-0443. Same-day Passes in Person Four free timed passes per visitor can be obtained in person at the museum on the same day of the visit. Passes are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis by the museum’s Visitor Services staff at beginning at 9:15 a.m. daily. However, we highly recommend reserving tickets in advance of a visit. There will be no same-day walk-up passes available Sept. 24 or Sept. 25. Commercial Tour Operators Passes for commercial tour operators are available only through ETIX Customer Support Center at (800) 514-3849 or (919) 653-0443. ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.31.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement of the seven PROMESA Oversight Board members: “Today’s announcement represents an important step in moving towards finding comprehensive and sustainable solutions to help Puerto Rico finally emerge from the economic crisis it has been going through for years. I applaud President Obama for moving quickly with the appointments and selecting a group of individuals who have vast and diverse professional experiences and who are deeply familiarized with the island. Now the Board must get to work in a collaborative manner with the Puerto Rican government to find solutions that take into consideration the input of different stakeholders and the needs of the Puerto Rican people. Budget cuts alone will not meet either of these requirements. These solutions should include an effort to resolve the status of Puerto Rico, which has a significant impact on the economy. A change in status would represent the most important economic stimulus for the island’s economy." Congressman Serrano sent a letter to the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in PR to include the Island’s Status, Key Health Care Areas, Federal Poverty Programs, and Energy Reform in Group’s Agenda. Click here to read the letter: https://serrano.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/congressman-serrano-asks-congressional-task-force-economic-growth-pr Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.30.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano, the most senior Member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent, sent a letter to the Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico with his recommendations for the task force as it decides how it will assist the island. In the letter, Congressman Serrano asks its members to include a number of specific items in its recommendations that are key to promoting Puerto Rico’s economic development and help working families on the island. “The Task Force’s work will be crucial in ensuring Puerto Rico successfully emerges from the current crisis and avoids similar problems in the future. As such, it is important that it includes key issues that are oftentimes considered irrelevant, given lower priority, or simply considered an afterthought when it comes to Puerto Rico’s economy. The most important of these is addressing Puerto Rico's colonial status, which has a significant negative impact on the economy. That is by far the most important economic stimulus for Puerto Rico's economy. Beyond that issue, equal access to federal health care benefits and programs; equal access to federal poverty programs and tax policies; and energy reforms are also key to the economic recovery. Including these changes in its recommendations will help the Task Force create a comprehensive proposal to assist Puerto Rico in its time of need and prevent a similar future crisis. I very much hope the task force will give them every consideration,” said Congressman Serrano. Click here for a PDF of the signed letter: https://serrano.house.gov/media-center/blog-posts/puerto-rico-task-force-letter August 30, 2016 Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth in Puerto Rico c/o Senator Orrin G. Hatch 104 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Task Force Members: Thank you for the opportunity to provide recommendations to the Task Force as you decide how Congress can assist Puerto Rico in getting back on its feet. As the most senior Member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent, I strongly believe that your work is crucial in addressing the economic crisis on the island. Towards that end, I think it is important for the Task Force’s recommendations to include the following items, which will improve the economic development of Puerto Rico and help working families on the island. Status: By far the most important issue needed to address economic opportunity and development in Puerto Rico is that of Puerto Rico’s political status. Currently, Puerto Rico is a U.S. territory subject to congressional authority pursuant to the Territorial Clause of the Constitution which grants Congress “power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States.” Art. IV, Sec. 3, cl. 2. Although those born in Puerto Rico are U.S. citizens, they are denied basic political rights such as having full representation in Congress, voting in presidential elections, and having the same eligibility for various federal programs as those in the states. While those residing in Puerto Rico cannot vote for their Commander-in-Chief, they can be sent to war and have fought in every war since World War I. The Puerto Rican people have been treated unequally for 118 years, and it should surprise no one that the result is that Puerto Rico’s economy is in shambles, its unemployment rate is too high, and hundreds of thousands of island residents have left for the mainland in search of a better quality of life. It is clear that the current economic and fiscal crisis in Puerto Rico is a direct result of this colonial status- Puerto Rico, as either a state or independent nation, would have had access to the necessary assistance without further congressional action. Instead, the island was forced to beg Congress for even the most meager aid possible. There are some that will argue that we should first concentrate on solving Puerto Rico’s fiscal crisis and economic problems before dealing with the political status question. The two issues cannot be separated. Because of its colonial status, Puerto Rico is not granted billions of federal dollars a year that it would receive were it a state of the Union. As a result, in order to provide essential services, the island’s government has had to borrow heavily in order to close the gap. Since its economy has lagged well behind the states for decades as a result of its colonial status, the island did not have sufficient economic growth to cover its expenses and service its debt. Therefore, a reasonable person would conclude that Puerto Rico’s problems are a result of its colonial status. In other words, the economic situation is directly correlated to its political status and until and unless we solve the political status question, we will not solve the economic situation. Resolving Puerto Rico’s status cannot occur, however, without a clear invitation from Congress to do so. Thankfully, Congress and the Puerto Rican people have already taken steps in that direction. In fiscal year 2014, Congress passed legislation that included $2.5 million to allow Puerto Rico to conduct a plebiscite on constitutional options to resolve its status. Local politics have prevented that money from being used, but in the wake of this economic emergency, consensus has started to emerge that Puerto Rico can no longer continue as a colony of this country. In 2012, a majority of the Puerto Rican people voted in a non-binding plebiscite on political status to end the current colonial status, and a supermajority of 61.2 percent voted in favor of statehood. Recent polls conducted in Puerto Rico suggest that 65 percent of the population favors statehood. I believe that this Task Force should include further funding in its recommendation in order to ensure that this money is used for its designated purpose, and so that the Puerto Rican people can choose once and for all. Further, I believe this Task Force should recommend the simplest option for resolving the status- H.R. 727, the Puerto Rico Statehood Admission Process Act. This bill authorizes a simple up or down vote on statehood for Puerto Rico. A vote on this issue will help clarify whether Puerto Rico should seek the only other viable option- independence. Absent serious action in Congress to address Puerto Rico’s status, I strongly believe we in Congress will end up revisiting Puerto Rico’s economic woes again in the future, whether that is a year, a decade, or a half-century from now. Health Care: In addition to necessary action on the status issue, there are several areas that should be addressed by this Task Force. One key component of Puerto Rico’s economic revival involves health care services. Puerto Ricans pay Social Security and Medicare taxes, but are not eligible for equal benefits, as explained below. Absent other congressional action, I believe the Committee should address the following issues in its recommendations: Zika- it is imperative that Congress finally act on the President’s full supplemental request to address the Zika virus. Puerto Rico is the epicenter of the Zika crisis in the United States, with more than 10,000 diagnosed cases according to the Puerto Rico Department of Health. The President’s $1.9 billion supplemental appropriations request includes significant funding assistance for Puerto Rico in order to address this crisis on the Island- including $250 million in dedicated funding from CMS. As a Member of the Appropriations Conference Committee addressing the Zika crisis, I have seen the urgent need for these additional funds. If we do not address this public health crisis, then it will continue to impact the economy of Puerto Rico by driving away much-needed tourism dollars and affecting the life outcomes and productivity of tens of thousands of American citizens on the island. Inequities in Medicaid and Medicare Funding- within both of these programs, there are numerous inequities that force the island’s government to divert local funds to help cover gaps in medical coverage. This money could be better used by the territory to promote economic development. For example, Puerto Rico was not treated equally under the Affordable Care Act- it was not included in the exchanges, and while it was given a temporary increase in Medicaid funding that extra allocation is not equivalent to that of the states, and will run out sometime in the next two years. This funding crisis, known as the Medicaid cliff, will reduce federal Medicaid allotments by hundreds of millions of dollars per year if not addressed by this Task Force. Within Medicare, Puerto Rico currently receives a truncated funding level under Medicaid in lieu of what they would receive under the regular formula for the Medicare Part D low-income subsidy (LIS). In the 50 states, the LIS program provides a subsidy for those who are below 135% of the federal poverty level. These individuals have smaller deductibles and lower cost sharing. While Puerto Rico is given a much smaller analogous program, it is approximately 1/10th of what they would receive under full LIS participation. Additionally, Puerto Ricans are not automatically enrolled under Medicare Part B, as is the case in the 50 states. Parity in these two programs will allow the Puerto Rican government, and the Puerto Rican people, to put more money into the economy. Hospital Financing- The economic crisis in Puerto Rico has resulted in numerous problems. One of the most troubling is the flight of medical professionals, mainly doctors and nurses, to the 50 states. Much of this flight is due to insufficient hospital funding, a problem which has been exacerbated by the high rates of interest for their mortgages and loans that hospitals have been forced to pay, leaving insufficient money to ensure quality care and to maintain staff. Several hospitals have been forced to let staff go. This has resulted in degraded medical care, and a loss of revenue for the territory’s government. The Office of Hospital Facilities within the Department of Housing and Urban Development is tasked with helping hospitals refinance their loans through the Section 242 mortgage insurance program. However, despite repeated outreach from hospitals on the island, not a single one has been able to take advantage of these services in recent years. The Task Force should examine ways in which access to the 242 program can be eased for hospitals in Puerto Rico, in order to allow refinancing by hospitals on the island that can greatly lower their non-health care costs. This would allow hospitals to reinvest in hospital staff and quality care. Federal Poverty Programs: Puerto Rico is excluded from several federal programs and tax policies that play important roles in reducing poverty elsewhere in the United States. Inclusion in these programs will help put money in the pockets of the poorest individuals and families on the island, and numerous studies have shown the economic benefit of providing assistance to working families. Money from programs like the EITC and the CTC is routinely reinvested in the economy, and will provide an economic boost to the island. Among the inequities that this Task Force should address are: Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)- Currently, Puerto Rico is excluded from the EITC, one of our nation’s most powerful anti-poverty programs. With an average family income well-below that of Mississippi (the lowest ranked state), Puerto Rico is in dire need of federal assistance to help low-income individuals and families. Inclusion in this program will help working families on the island make ends meet, by spending more income and boosting the economy. Additionally, inclusion in the EITC will help increase tax compliance and formal participation in the economy. Child Tax Credit (CTC)- Currently, families with three or more children are eligible for the federal child tax credit, but those with one or two children are not. Making these families eligible would provide an additional 300,000 families with much needed assistance. Additionally, the refundable Additional Child Tax Credit suffers from the same problem, and an unequal formula that is currently applied only to Puerto Rican families with three or more children. This inequity should be addressed by the Task Force as well. Supplemental Security Income (SSI)- Currently, Puerto Rico is excluded from participation in SSI, the program for indigent individuals who are older than 65, blind, or disabled. Instead, Puerto Rico is provided with a block grant that is miniscule relative to what individuals would receive were they allowed to participate in SSI. This is a basic inequity that hurts the most vulnerable in our society. Puerto Ricans pay Social Security taxes, and should be allowed to equally participate in all parts of Social Security. Energy: Energy is an area that needs to be studied by this Task Force in order to help improve Puerto Rico’s economy. Puerto Rico’s electrical power prices are more than twice the average power price in the states. Currently, about half of the island’s electricity is obtained from petroleum, making the island very susceptible to price volatility in the oil markets. In order to boost economic growth by increasing productivity, electricity costs in the island must be reduced. Too often, businesses on the island shut down or do not expand due to high electricity costs. Lower electricity costs will attract businesses to commence or expand operations. Some suggestions into how to improve the energy sector in Puerto Rico and ultimately lower electricity prices are the following: In order to foster economic growth, the federal government should provide technical and programmatic assistance so that there are no surcharges to current electricity rates in Puerto Rico other than rate increases due to the price of oil. The federal government should provide technical assistance to the government of Puerto Rico in order to discuss ways to open up the electricity market on the island to competition. Federal agencies including the Department of Energy should provide all available technical and programmatic assistance (i.e. grants, loans, loan guarantees)—consistent with federal rules and regulations—for capital improvements and critical energy projects in Puerto Rico, as mandated by the PROMESA Act, P.L.114-187. The Task Force should examine ways to allow Puerto Ricans access to federal tax credits for renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies. This will encourage the use of alternative and renewable energy sources on the island. Puerto Rico must have an agile bureaucracy that grants or declines permits for renewable energy projects in a timely manner comparable to that of the 50 states, while adhering to all federal and state environmental rules and regulations. The Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy at the U.S. Department of Energy should offer technical and other programmatic assistance to the Commonwealth for the implementation of innovative technologies with the capability of combining different infrastructure systems in an integrated manner to effectively mitigate power plant emissions, efficiently treat and reuse wastewater, and produce biofuels. The Department of Energy should develop an energy action plan for Puerto Rico—as mandated by the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (P.L. 113-235)—that includes recommendations on reducing the island’s dependence on fossil fuels, utilizing U.S. fuel energy sources, and improving the island’s energy infrastructure and overall energy efficiency. State-like treatment should be provided to Puerto Rico under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) statute, thereby helping more low-income households pay their electricity bills. Congress should appropriate funds in FY 2017 for a program that was authorized in 2005. Under the program, the Secretary of the Interior can award up to $6 million in grants to harden electric power transmission and distribution lines in Puerto Rico and the other U.S. territories against hurricane-related damage. I hope that the Task Force will be able to come together in a bipartisan manner to create a comprehensive proposal for action to further assist Puerto Rico in its time of need. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.18.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the National Science Foundation have awarded Fordham University in the Bronx a total of $476,993 in federal funding for four research initiatives. “These grants will allow Fordham University to continue leading the way in conducting cutting edge research and providing a quality education in the 21st century. They also demonstrate the caliber of academic work being conducted right here in the Bronx. I applaud the great work it continues doing to provide the citizens of my District, New York City, and all of the United States with a quality education,” said Congressman Serrano. The federal funding will be distributed as follows: $211,491 - Exploratory/developmental grant to study the effects of discrimination and sleep disturbance on health among Asian youth. $24, 957 – Planning grant for “The "Living Humanities" Ph.D. for the 21st Century” Research project $113, 350 – Grant for project entitled "MRI: Acquisition of a High Resolution Atomic Force Microscope for Interdisciplinary Nanoscience Research and Education at Fordham University." $127,195 - Project entitled "Existence and Regularity for Variational Problems." Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.17.2016	Washington, DC – Three Puerto Rican Members of Congress have written to the Speaker of the House of Representatives calling for Congress to swiftly allocate resources to address the growing threat of the Zika virus. In a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan (D-WI), Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Congressman Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) and Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) called for Congress to appropriate $1.9 billion in emergency funding to address Zika, as previously requested by the Administration. “By failing to act, House Republicans are abdicating Congress’ solemn responsibility to protect the American people. This terrible disease poses a danger to all Americans, to New Yorkers and has already been impacting Puerto Rico. Congress needs to act responsibly and swiftly to address this growing threat. Public health experts have made clear that the funding the House previously passed is woefully insufficient and this failure is shameful and unacceptable. Speaker Ryan needs to act before more Americans are put at risk,” said Rep. Velázquez. “Puerto Rico is, by far, the U.S. jurisdiction most impacted by Zika. There are already over 10,000 confirmed cases, including over 1,000 confirmed cases in pregnant women, and the true numbers are likely far higher. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that carries Zika also carries dengue and chikungunya, which have each caused serious public health and economic problems in Puerto Rico in recent years. It is critical that the federal government, working in conjunction with the scientific community, take the steps necessary to combat Zika and other mosquito-borne viruses in all U.S. jurisdictions, including Puerto Rico, with a particular focus on cutting-edge methods of vector control that can substantially reduce the population of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. To accomplish this goal, far more resources are required—and required fast. When Congress returns to work in September, it is my fervent hope that the House and Senate will act in the best interest of this country,” said Pedro Pierluisi, Puerto Rico’s representative in Congress. “Republicans in Congress have failed the American people by preventing an adequate funding bill to address the Zika crisis from being debated and passed. Redirecting funds from one epidemic to another is not enough- there is already a public health crisis in Puerto Rico, and further delay leaves us vulnerable to the outbreak in the 50 states. With each and every day we drag our feet on approving the Administration’s full request, we are putting more women and children at grave risk of transmission. Enough is enough; it is time for Congressional Republicans to take this crisis seriously and to immediately approve the funds necessary to deal with this crisis in a comprehensive manner,” said Congressman Serrano. The full text of the letter is below: August 16, 2016 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives H-237 U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: We write to express our serious concern over the increasing threat posed by the Zika virus and the need for immediate Congressional action on emergency funding. Puerto Rico, with 10,000 cases, is ground zero for this virus. Moreover, several states, including Florida and Texas, have now seen locally transmitted cases. This demonstrates the significant challenges associated with combating Zika, and the need to act swiftly to ensure that we have the necessary tools at our disposal. For this reason we strongly support the administration’s request of $1.9 billion in emergency appropriations to combat this international public health threat and request the House of Representatives immediately consider legislation to fund ongoing response and research efforts at this level. It is clear we still have a lot to learn about Zika virus and both the short-term and long-term health implications for those affected by the virus. Where Zika was once thought to only spread via mosquitoes, we now know it can be sexually transmitted and can even stay in the system for weeks after infection. As Zika continues to spread, it is imperative that we make immediate, sustained investments in research that, hopefully, will yield a vaccine, diagnostic method, and prevention strategy. Unfortunately, current funding that was shifted to the National Institutes of Health will soon be exhausted. Congressional inaction will lead to real-world consequences—Phase II trials of a Zika vaccine will be delayed until new funding is provided. The current Zika outbreak has spread rapidly and brought the epidemic to our doorstep. There are almost 2,000 reported cases of Zika in the 50 states to date with six of them being locally transmitted. More alarmingly, there have also been over 10,000 cases reported in the U.S. territories, resulting in Secretary Burwell declaring a public health emergency for Puerto Rico – signaling that the current spread of Zika poses a significant threat to public health on the island. Even the Defense Department has reported that at least 40 Americans on active military duty, including a pregnant woman, have contracted the Zika virus during service in countries where mosquitos are transmitting the disease. The spread of Zika in the Western Hemisphere has been swift and damaging. The number of cases will continue to rise until Congress acts. The most troubling aspect of Zika remains in its threat to pregnant women and their babies. Nearly 1,000 cases have been confirmed in pregnant women in the U.S. mainland and the U.S. territories. As you know, Zika-related birth defects, like Guillain-Barré syndrome and microcephaly are life threatening and lifelong illnesses. Given these neonatal neurological implications of this virus, it is unconscionable to further delay action on this very critical issue. We are gravely concerned about the implications of this virus and, for this reason, believe that response and research efforts must have Congress’ full attention. The risks are too great to wait. Therefore, we urge you to make Zika funding your top priority and promptly bring legislation, such as H.R. 5044, the Emergency Supplemental on the Zika Virus, which provides at least $1.9 billion in appropriations to the House floor as soon as possible. Sincerely, # # #
08.17.2016	NEW YORK––Mayor Bill de Blasio today was joined by Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Congressman Jose E. Serrano, State Senator and Democratic nominee for NY-13 Adriano Espaillat, State Assembly Member Brian Kavanagh, and Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Commissioner Dr. Mary T. Bassett to update New Yorkers on the City’s ongoing efforts to combat the Zika virus and call on the federal government to increase funding to New York to continue to combat the Zika virus. To date, New York City has invested $21 million over three years to enhance mosquito surveillance and control, increase testing and build greater public awareness around the virus. Since the announcement of the City’s Zika Action Plan in April, over 3,400 at-risk pregnant women have been tested, with 49 pregnant women testing positive and one baby born with microcephaly due to Zika. “New York City is deeply proud of our aggressive and comprehensive Zika response,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “Though the mosquito carrying Zika has not been identified here, nearly a quarter of all positive cases in the continental United States are in New York. As a global city, we must continue to act aggressively with the full support of our federal government, and we hope the other cities will adhere to this model.” “Zika is a national public health crisis, and like any crisis, it requires support from the federal government for municipalities like New York City to sustain ongoing response and planning efforts,” said Health Commissioner Dr. Mary T. Bassett. “In the absence of federal funding, the Mayor’s unparalleled commitment to protect New Yorkers from the Zika virus has allowed the Health Department to expand its mosquito control efforts and enhance its testing capacity at the City’s Public Health Laboratory. These are critical in the fight against the Zika virus, but we need Congress to act.” Most people testing positive for Zika in New York City acquired the infection from mosquito bites incurred while travelling to Zika-affected areas (with a small minority – four – associated with sexual transmission). Though the mosquito most associated with Zika has not been found in the city, a related mosquito that is a potential carrier has. The Health Department has to-date completed mosquito treatments in every borough, totaling 79 community sprays, with tomorrow’s scheduled event marking the City’s fifth pesticide spraying in a mosquito-dense area. Due to increasing nationwide concern, New York City recently expanded the criteria for Zika testing, from anyone who recently traveled to a Zika-affected region, to now anyone over the age five who has three or more symptoms associated with Zika. These symptoms include fever, a widespread skin rash, joint pain or conjunctivitis. Though Zika presents with mild symptoms in most people, pregnant women, women seeking to become pregnant and their partners are warned not to travel to Zika-affected areas. Those who have should use condoms or abstain from sexual intercourse for the duration of their pregnancy. “Although public health experts do not expect that the United States mainland will see the kind of widespread outbreaks that are happening in Brazil or Puerto Rico, that does not mean we can sit by complacently and hope for the best,” saidCongresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “We cannot afford to play politics with the health of the American people. It is time for Congressional leadership to act – and act responsibly. We must put adequate resources toward combating this virus to develop a vaccine and enable states to take precautions like the ones that have been implemented here in New York City by Mayor de Blasio and the dedicated team over at New York City Health. ” “To date, Congressional Republicans have abdicated their solemn responsibility to allocate sufficient resources for dealing with the spread of Zika. This disease is a threat to all Americans, to New Yorkers and has already been impacting Puerto Rico. Congress needs to act responsibly and swiftly to address this public health threat,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez. "As a Senior Member of the Appropriations Committee appointed to the Zika Conference Committee, I am fighting to fully fund the President’s request for $1.9 billion in emergency funding to address the Zika crisis. Republicans in Congress have failed the American people by preventing an adequate funding bill from being debated and passed. Congress can and must do more to provide adequate levels of funding to ensure this virus does not spread further. It’s time Congress take the lead as we did during other natural disasters and public health crises,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “Zika is a serious threat to public health, and it is imperative that our city has the resources it needs to protect every New Yorker,” said State Senator Adriano Espaillat. “New York City has done a tremendous job in educating New Yorkers and preparing a robust vision to maintain the health and well-being of the public. With greater federal support, we could expand prevention efforts and move closer to a vaccine.” "Under the de Blasio administration, this Department of Health has done a truly extraordinary job of protecting New Yorkers from potential health threats," said Council Member Corey Johnson, Chair of the Committee on Health. "This was true of managing the Ebola outbreak, this was true of Legionnaires, and it is true of the current threat posed by Zika. New Yorkers should follow the wisdom of DOHMH's advice and share its important safety tips with friends and family. Maintaining public health requires our citizenship to be equipped with the best information, and under the Department of Health's stellar leadership, I know we will manage this threat." Throughout the summer, the Health Department has continued an aggressive campaign focused on reminding pregnant New Yorkers and their partners to avoid traveling to Zika-affected areas. The latest Center for Disease Control (CDC) review noted 483 positive cases of Zika in New York City. It remains critical to keep infections down, yet without appropriate federal funding, many jurisdictions lack the necessary resources to do so. Because of this, the Obama Administration recently committed $81 million in part to develop a vaccine to combat Zika, following Congressional failure to approve new funding. As New York City continues to implement our Zika Action Plan, increased funding will be necessary to sustain a long-term response that includes research and vaccine development, as well as continuing emergency-preparedness planning. Mayor de Blasio has appealed to U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to support the $1.9 billion emergency funding package that will combat this crisis and keep millions of Americans safe. Mayor de Blasio’s letter to the U.S. House of Representatives can be found here. ###
08.15.2016	NYC Delegation Urges HUD Secretary Castro to Reconsider Small Area Fair Market Rents (“SAFMRs”) Proposal WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined with other Members of the New York City Congressional delegation to oppose an effort by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to use a Small Area Fair Market Rents (“SAFMRs”) formula in New York City that would increase the rent burden of Housing Choice Voucher tenants in NYC. This proposed change would increase the rent of many Section 8 voucher recipients in the Bronx by hundreds of dollars per month. In a letter to Secretary Castro, led by Senator Schumer and Congresswoman Velázquez, the group warns of the proposal’s impact in NYC, shows support for the comments that New York City housing organizations have sent HUD, and requests the inclusion of their recommendations in the adoption of a final rule. “Any proposal by HUD has to take into consideration the reality of the NYC housing market and particular needs of City tenants,” said Congressman Serrano. “While the Small Area Fair Market Rents programs has been successful in other states, it would have a severely negative impact in the Bronx and throughout New York City. For those who rely on Housing Choice Vouchers, these proposed changes will make it significantly more difficult to find affordable housing. I urge Secretary Castro and the U.S. Department of Housing to prevent this rule from taking effect in NYC until it incorporates the recommendations of the City’s housing organizations and takes into account the needs of communities like the Bronx.” The proposed rule, in its current form, would cause many Housing Choice Voucher families to pay more out of their own pockets for rent by reducing the amount provided by their voucher. This forces them to choose between paying a higher rent they can’t afford and leaving their place in a tight housing market. The estimated average of additional monthly cost to tenants in the Bronx would be $218. Unlike other cities where similar pilot programs have been successful, NYC has a vacancy rate of only 3.45 percent. In addition, NYC lacks the space/infrastructure to build new housing for the families looking to relocate into high opportunity neighborhoods. It is estimated that some 72 percent of voucher households in the Bronx will be negatively affected by these changes. The full text of the letter: The Honorable Julian Castro Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20410 Dear Secretary Castro: We write to you on a matter of pressing concern in the administration of the Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”) program in New York City. The Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (“the Department”) recent proposal to use Small Area Fair Market Rents (“SAFMRs”) in New York City is well intentioned, but we are worried the proposal is likely to result in unfavorable outcomes for a number of New York City’s tenants and families who currently participate in the HCV program. The Department’s proposal seeks to use SAFMRs in New York City, and other select metropolitan areas around the country, to provide tenants with a more effective means to move into neighborhoods of higher opportunity. Under the proposal, the Department will calculate Fair Market Rents (“FMRs”) by ZIP Code, instead of calculating FMRs as a single metropolitan area FMR, in order to more accurately reflect housing sub-markets within a metropolitan region. By calculating FMRs by ZIP Code, the Department hopes that Small Area FMRs will afford HCV tenants and families with a subsidy adequate enough to make higher opportunity neighborhoods more accessible. We appreciate the Department’s desire to encourage and enhance outcomes and opportunities for tenants and families, and the proposal may work well in some localities. However, in the high-cost, extremely low vacancy area of New York City, the proposal is likely to negatively impact a majority of tenants and families participating in the program. In New York City, the local housing agencies estimate that rental assistance payments would decrease for roughly 56,606 HCV tenants because of the Department’s proposal. This means, that within 13 to 24 months of the final rule taking effect, these individuals and families will be expected to move to a higher-income neighborhood, be forced to re-negotiate with their landlord for a lower rent, or assume a significantly higher rent burden in order to stay in their home. For those tenants and families facing a decrease in their monthly rental assistance payments that may choose to move, these individuals and families are likely to face limited rental options and encounter significant hardship in finding new housing due to the City’s extremely low vacancy rate, which currently stands at 3.45%. Some may face financial barriers to moving such as an inability to afford a larger security deposit or associated moving costs. Others may decide to stay in their home, choosing instead to remain close to social, family, or professional networks in their neighborhoods. For those tenants and families who choose to stay in their homes, the change to SAFMR will likely result in a reduced voucher subsidy. It is unlikely that landlords will accept lower rents, which will lead many existing tenants and families to face a significantly higher rent burden just to stay in their home. One estimate anticipates that in some ZIP Codes around the City the average rent burden will rise by as much as $403 per month. Further, lowered voucher subsidies may drive some landlords who currently accept vouchers to leave the Department’s program all together, resulting in displacement of current voucher households and a further reduction of rental units affordable to those individuals and families who need them the most. At the other end of the spectrum, rental markets across the five boroughs where SAFMRs will be greater than currently published FMR levels, the net result would likely be an increase in per capita spending for each unit of HCV assistance. At a time when budget authority is already insufficient to support the existing number of New York City tenants and families participating in the program, the rise in the subsidy cost per household is likely to further reduce the number of tenants and families that can be assisted by the program overall. Any final rule adopted by the Department must limit the harm to those existing tenants and families currently participating in the HCV program. In an extremely tight rental market like New York City, the final rule should not force those individuals and families most in need of rental assistance to choose between facing a higher rent burden and leaving their home. In response to the Department’s request for public comment, a number of New York City’s housing agencies, tenant-based organizations, and housing experts have all submitted a number of forthright and constructive ideas and recommendations for improving the Department’s proposal. We urge the Department to review each and every-one of those ideas carefully and include their recommendations in adoption of the final rule to ensure New York City HCV tenants and families are not significantly impacted by a substantial and abrupt decrease in FMRs. Providing low-income individuals and families with more housing options, especially in high-opportunity neighborhoods is something we should all strive to achieve with the HCV program. But program changes should not be implemented that will negatively impact New York City individuals and families who choose not to or who are unable to move. Sincerely Yours, *** Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.08.2016	The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that six hospitals and health care centers in the Bronx have been awarded a total of $550,493 in federal funding through grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The grants will support a wide range of general and specialized care at each of the health care providers’ locations in the South Bronx. “Our hospitals, community health centers, and non-profits in the Bronx deliver the best care to some of our borough’s most vulnerable residents,” said Congressman Serrano. “This funding is crucial to ensuring these facilities continue providing high-quality health care to those who need it most, including dental care and specialized care for patients living with HIV/AIDS. I am proud of the work these organizations do on a daily basis to protect the health and well-being of Bronxites and all New Yorkers, and I’m pleased to see they are receiving the support they need from the federal government.” The funding will be distributed as follows: Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center (Dental Reimbursement Program) - $271,800 HELP/Project Samaritan Services Corp. (Health Center Cluster) - $35,000 La Casa De Salud, Inc. (Health Center Cluster) - $35,000 St. Barnabas Hospital and Healthcare System (Dental Reimbursement Program) - $138,693 Union Community Health Center (Health Center Program) - $35,000 Vocational Instructional Project Community Services, Inc. (Health Center Program) - $35,000 ###
08.03.2016	The Bronx, NY – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano announced today that the U.S. Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) has awarded $321,800 in funding to the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation (SoBRO) to deliver strategic business consulting and deal-making services to eligible minority business enterprises (MBEs) under the MBDA Business Center program. These primary objective of the funding is to help clients, eligible minority business, achieve higher levels of growth and competitiveness to promote job creation and retention. The primary performance drivers under this award are job creation and retention and the award of procurement/contract and financing transactions to MBEs. “Few things are as important to local economic prosperity as small business creation and growth. This funding will help South Bronx minority businesses, which face unique challenges, have access to the services and knowledge they need to grow and succeed. With SoBRO’s help, they will be able to do so more effectively by helping create or retain more jobs and boost our local economy,” said Congressman Serrano. “I would note that this grant shows the great work that organizations like SoBRO are doing in the Bronx. In fact, SoBRO is the only Minority Business Center in all of New York City, and one of only 39 such centers across the United States!” “The Bronx Minority Business Center has been a much needed addition to the array of services SoBRO provides to minority-owned businesses throughout the region, allowing us to provide seamless and comprehensive services to a wide range of business clients. We look forward to operating the Center for another five years,” said Phillip Morrow, President and CEO – South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Serrano released the following statement concerning the deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, as well as the deaths of 5 police officers in Dallas, Texas: “After events of the past few days, with tragedies in Minnesota, Louisiana, and now Texas, many of us, including myself, are asking how it is that we are once again facing this cycle of tragedy. The deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile are too heartbreaking, too horrifying, and sadly, too familiar. In communities like the Bronx, these stories are far too routine –in the midst of sorrow, there is a small part of all of us that is simply not surprised. “That the devastating deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile have been compounded by the killing of at least 5 police officers in Dallas is deeply upsetting. Not a single one of these deaths was necessary, and I mourn with the families and friends of each and every person who lost their lives over the past 72 hours. Over the next few days we will find out much more about each of these events, but there is one conclusion that we can all come to right now: things need to change. “We need more accountability for law enforcement. We need more law enforcement training. We need to rebuild trust between communities of color and police officers. We need to stop dehumanizing people of color- especially black men. We need to stop gun violence. We need to keep guns out of the hands of bad actors. We need to hold our public officials- elected and unelected- accountable. We need to address a culture that routinely portrays people of color in a negative light. We need to address an entertainment system that glorifies violence. We need to activate. We need to speak out. We need to vote. We need to pray. We need to love.” ###
07.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the passing of Bronx legend, Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. “We've lost a great American and a great New Yorker. As a World War II combat veteran as a pilot in the famed Tuskegee Airman, former Bronx Community College President, civil and human rights advocate, Congressional Gold Medal recipient, and a very good friend, Dr. Brown was a true American hero. He played a large and important role in serving his country, his community, and in fighting for equal rights and equal opportunities for all Americans. I came to know him while he was President of Bronx Community College (BCC), where he helped bring BCC to national prominence as an urban educational model and fought to ensure greater access to jobs and educational opportunities. Dr. Brown was also an avid runner, and on dozens of occasions we ran together the Bronx Community College (BCC) 5 & 10K - a race that he founded during his tenure at BCC. The Bronx is lucky to have benefited from Dr. Brown’s decades of service, and I was lucky to call him a friend. Rest in peace Dr. Brown, you will always be in our hearts and memories. ###
06.29.2016	The Bronx, NY – Congressman Serrano today joined the growing calls for action on gun safety legislation as part of the National Day of Action on Gun Violence Prevention. Congressman Serrano joined his Democratic colleagues in demanding that Speaker Ryan allow an up-or-down vote on pending bipartisan legislation to strengthen and expand background checks, as well as bipartisan legislation to ban individuals on terrorism watch lists from buying guns. The two bipartisan bills have the overwhelming support of the American public. According to the latest polls, 92% of Americans support expanded background checks and that 85% of Americans support banning people on federal terrorism watch lists from buying guns. The National Day of Action follows the historic 26-hour “sit-in” also led by Democrats last week. “With today’s National Day of Action we want to continue voicing Americans’ concerns about terrorism and gun violence, and spreading the message about the importance of taking immediate action. The only thing standing in the way of passing bipartisan legislation that has the overwhelming support of the American people are House Republicans’ obstructionist ways and concessions to the gun lobby. Tragedies involving guns and gun violence are far too common in the Bronx and elsewhere, and there is more that Congress can and should do to help the American people and prevent the next tragedy from occurring. It’s time to action on these common sense bills- we cannot remain silent any longer.” ###
06.29.2016	Pilot program will offer Pell Grants to incarcerated students pursuing a degreeProgram is focused on prisoners likely to be released, reincorporating in society within the five years The Bronx, NY – Congressman Jose E. Serrano announced today that Hostos Community College has been selected to participate in a pilot program with a limited number of spots that will provide Pell grants to students in prison. Hostos Community College was one of only 67 schools selected to participate in Second Chance Pell; more than 200 schools applied. Congress banned the use of Pell grants for prisoners in 1994, but the Administration is launching the pilot program by using the President’s “experimental sites” authority under the Higher Education Act . The primary goal of the pilot program is to study the cost and benefit of the program, and in turn provide the more than 12,000 prisoners that will participate in it with the knowledge and skills they need to successfully reincorporate in their communities. “I am thrilled that the Obama Administration has selected Hostos Community College as one of the 67 pilot programs named in the President’s Second Chance Pell Pilot Program. Individuals who have almost finished paying their debt to society and are on the verge of reentry should be given every opportunity to succeed. Unfortunately, they continue to face enormous barriers in gaining steady employment or furthering their education, which often results in returning to criminal behavior, driving up the criminal justice system’s reincarceration costs. This forward thinking approach will only help lower recidivism rates and related government spending, as well as help keep our communities safer in the long-run. I am confident that these pilot programs will finally show that education is a pathway out of poverty and a life of crime, and I hope that it serves as a catalyst for Congress to reconsider the use of Pell grant funds for incarcerated populations. I applaud the Administration’s work on this issue, and proud that Hostos Community College will be a part of the solution.” ###
06.24.2016	NEW YORK—Today, Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney, Congressman Joe Crowley, and Congressman Greg Meeks joined with other members of the New York Democratic Delegation to continue the historic “No Bill, No Break” sit-in that began a little before noon on Wednesday. After over 26 hours of occupying the House floor, Democrats ended the sit-in and returned to their districts. The NY delegation brought the fight home, rallying with gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence to continue the demand for action. Maloney, Crowley, and Meeks were joined by their colleagues Reps. Rangel, Engel, Serrano, Nadler, Velázquez, and Jeffries, as well as Kim Russel, a survivor of gun violence and Regional Organizing Manager of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, Executive Director for New Yorkers Against Gun Violence Leah Gunn Barrett, and members of the Million Moms March. “Enough is Enough!” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “We are done with moments of silence, we are done with prayers. Our thoughts are not enough. Now is the time for action. What began on the House Floor Wednesday is continuing here today. That was a start of the movement that will sweep the nation so that the Republicans can no longer ignore the fact that without action, gun violence will continue. By refusing to vote on, or pass, commonsense gun legislation, we do a disservice to those who have suffered from gun violence. The victims and their families deserve more from us; they deserve to see true change.” “Our message is simple: let the House vote on commonsense gun violence prevention legislation and let us vote now. Instead of listening to our calls - and the calls of millions of Americans -- Republicans voted in the dark of the night to adjourn the House without taking a vote on gun legislation,” said Rep. Joe Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. “We can’t keep holding moments of silence without taking action to prevent the next tragedy. We owe it to the victims in Orlando, and across the country, to take a stand and hold a vote. To those adding their voice to our fight: we hear you loud and clear!” "House Democrats' historic twenty-six hour sit-in showed the unrelenting commitment of House Democrats to strengthen our nation’s gun violence prevention laws and make America safer,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. “Now, we’re taking to neighborhoods and streets across the United States, to continue the fight and galvanize the overwhelming majority of Americans who support expanding background checks and preventing terrorists on the 'No-Fly' list from getting a gun. Eventually, we will win this fight—in honor of the victims of gun violence, their families, and their friends.” “I have marched, I have sat-in, I have been involved in all types of demonstrations but I have never felt more proud to see my colleagues take action against the Republican Leadership in saying enough is enough,” said Congressman Charles Rangel. “Talking about it is not going to resolve our nation’s gun epidemic. We have to be prepared to make some noise and shake the tree. We cannot give up, we cannot give in. We have to find another way to do the right thing. This is the beginning of a new era in Congress and the start of a new Civil Rights Movement. We will no longer be silenced.” "As I said to my colleagues during our sit-in the other night: Republicans have tossed out the old rules about how the House functions,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “We no longer debate legislation and vote on it on the House floor, because the Republican Majority has decided that they are too afraid. Too afraid to stop terrorists from buying guns, too afraid to allow background checks, too afraid of what researching gun violence will show—to sum it up, they are too afraid of the NRA. So instead of working to fix these problems by voting on solutions that 90 percent of Americans agree on, the Republican Majority has decided that the House won't do any more business this month. They have decided that they would rather abdicate their responsibilities and skip town than work to address the issue of gun violence, which is killing more and more Americans every day. Their behavior is shameful, but we will not be discouraged in the face of their cowardice. I have never been more proud of my time in Congress than I was the other night, and I want to thank all of my Democratic colleagues, especially our New York delegation, for their unyielding dedication to ending the national gun violence epidemic.” “I was proud to join Rep. John Lewis and my colleagues in the historic sit in on the floor of the House,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “We know that our constituents are sick and tired of inaction in the face of so much gun violence. We know that New Yorkers demand action. Doing nothing is not an option. We staged this protest, and we will keep fighting in unconventional ways, to bring pressure on the House leadership to address the epidemic of gun violence. We should pass the No Fly, No Buy bill and close the gun show loophole. And we shouldn’t stop there – we should re-impose the Assault Weapons Ban and ban the sale of high capacity magazines. There is a lot we should do, but as we found out this week, the current House leadership would rather recess the House than debate and vote on gun legislation. It’s a disgrace.” “Last week, I took to the House floor to read the names of the victims in Orlando,” said Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez. “At that time, I said that, while we will never forget them, their memory will inspire change and action. Our sit-in on the floor this week was a continuation of that effort. No matter what happens next, we will maintain this fight and not relent until Congress enacts meaningful gun control.” “We are here to continue with our message to the House Republican leadership: It’s time to take action to address gun violence” said Congressman Jose Serrano. “I was proud to join hundreds of my colleagues at the House sit-in earlier this week; today I’m proud to join colleagues from the NYC delegation to call once again for sensible legislation to keep arms out of dangerous hands and make our communities safer. We’re not asking Speaker Ryan and House Republicans for anything extraordinary. We’re only asking them to let the people’s House vote and decide on legislation that has the overwhelming support of the American people.” “Gun violence has become unacceptably commonplace in our country,” said Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke. “Not only has this nation experienced that deadliest mas shooting in modern U.S. history, every day in the Borough of Brooklyn, too many people are hurt and even killed by gun violence.” There are countless children, women and men who fall victim to gun violence in this nation and never make the nightly news. The loss of precious life and the pain that families endure is something that is unnecessary and that can be prevented. If we took a moment of silence for every act of gun violence we would never be able to speak to each other. Enough is enough; Congress must act to protect the lives of Americans. My constituents in Brooklyn and people from all over our nation have demanded action, but they are being ignored. I am proud to stand with the New York delegation as we bring this issue to New York.” "As a result of our sit-in, we won over the American people on the need to curb gun violence," said Congresswoman Grace Meng. "We will continue to prevail. We will push ahead until we get a vote! I'm proud of all my Democratic colleagues as well as all the advocates, young people and social media users who stood with us to help make our sit-in the huge success that it was." “Under the leadership of civil rights icon Congressman John Lewis, we crossed our first bridge this week on the way to making families safer,” said Congressman Paul Tonko. “That fight continues in our local communities and today in City Hall. Congresswoman Maloney’s determination is exactly what we need to accomplish our goals and deliver for the vast majority of Americans who demand action on gun violence. We will never prevent every single tragedy, but we can work to significantly reduce the scores of mass shootings we see in our nation each year. We are not asking for anything outrageous. In fact, we are working to enact policies that more than 80% of Democrats, Republicans and Independents across Americans are demanding: universal background checks and closing the terrorist gun loophole while ensuring due process and the protection of civil liberties.” “House Democrats are going to continue to use every tool in our toolbox to force Speaker Ryan to hold a vote on a bill that 85 percent of Americans agree with,” said Congressman Steve Israel. “Keeping guns out of the hands of terrorists is just commonsense. New Yorkers agree. And that’s why we are going to continue to call out House Republicans for their inaction on preventing gun violence.” "The repeated occurrence of mass shootings in our country and our cites must reawaken a paralyzed Congress," said Congressman Brian Higgins. "It is time for action on bipartisan, common sense gun legislation." “This week, we showed the American people that their Representatives stand for something – by sitting in, we stood up for the parishioners in Charleston, school children in Newtown, LGBT people in Orlando and countless others tragically lost to senseless gun violence‎. House Republicans can turn off the cameras, but we won’t be silenced – protecting our children and our country is simply too important. No bill, no break,” said Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney. “The sit-in on the House floor this week was a big first step in what has to be a sustained, nationwide movement demanding common-sense action to prevent gun violence,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “This isn’t about any one of us – it’s about the people who had the phones in our offices ringing off the hooks all day, the people who came and stood outside the Capitol all night long, the people who are tired of losing family members and friends to senseless gun violence and even more tired of seeing our government do nothing about it. We were speaking for them on the House floor this week, and we’re going to keep making their voices heard and keep fighting for what’s right until common sense prevails.” Background Just before 12pm on Wednesday, June 22nd, Democrats took control of the House Floor and staged a sit-in protest to demand that the Republican Majority take action on gun safety and allow a vote to pass commonsense gun legislation to prevent those on the no fly list from purchasing firearms, and to expand background checks. In an attempt to halt the protest, the cameras and microphones in the chamber were shut off. Using social media, Democratic members continued to broadcast the sit-in to millions across the country. The House was briefly brought to session around 3am in the morning, and was then quickly recessed until July 5th. ###
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Serrano today released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 4-4 decision in the case of the United States vs. Texas, which concerns the President’s immigration executive actions to expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) initiative and create the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) initiative for numerous parents of U.S citizens and lawful permanent residents. The decision constitutes a tie, which prevents the executive actions from moving forward and taking effect. “Today’s Supreme Court deadlock decision is a disappointing setback, but not a definitive or defining decision for the countless immigrant families that will be affected by it. The President’s Executive Actions are within the Executive branch’s broad legal authority and in line with the precedent that has been established by every Administration during the last 50 years, and I am confident justice will prevail when a full nine justice Supreme Court reviews the case again after the current SCOTUS vacancy is filled. Furthermore, Democrats are committed to continue pushing for comprehensive immigration reform to address this and other issues related to immigration. Unfortunately, Republicans are celebrating this decision as a victory. Instead of celebrating they should be reaching across the aisle and working with Democrats on this important issue. President Obama had to take these actions because of the lack of action in Congress. The Supreme Court’s tie and inability to solve this case underscores again why it is important to get to work on fixing our nation’s broken immigration system, as leaders from the business, faith, and law enforcement communities, as well as Members of both parties have repeatedly called for,” said Congressman Serrano. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Members released the following statements on the U.S. v. Texas ruling. The 4-4 tie means that President Obama’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) and the expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) cannot move forward for implementation. Earlier today, Members of the CHC spoke outside the Supreme Court. You can catch their press conference remarks here. CHC Chairwoman Linda T. Sánchez: “La lucha continua. The struggle continues. Today’s U.S. v. Texas decision is a blow to the Latino and immigrant community. The fate of millions of families will remain in purgatory. Our community is being punished for the ‘crime’ of wanting a better life for their family. And yet we see no salvation in sight. The Republican majority in the Senate continues to block a vote on a ninth judge. We now march into November with determination to vote for a President and representatives in Congress that will fight for the immigration executive actions and most importantly, for comprehensive immigration reform.” CHC Second Vice Chair Joaquin Castro: “Today’s ruling is a setback, but it’s not the end of the road for these much-needed programs or for the millions of people eligible for them. I am confident that this case will come before the Supreme Court again. Fortunately, the decision today does not affect DACA 2012, and it will remain in place. This decision emphasizes the urgent need to fill the Supreme Court’s vacant seat. Cases like U.S. v. Texas are too important to stall due to politics. I am dedicated to passing comprehensive immigration reform legislation. We must find solutions to fix America’s broken immigration system and find policies that more closely align with our values as a nation of immigrants.” CHC Whip Ruben Gallego: “Today’s disappointing decision is an unfortunate setback for the immigrant families who now must continue to live in fear of separation. But this fight is not over. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus will continue to work with the tireless advocates who are fighting to protect immigrant families and to make sure that every member of our community can live in dignity. The DAPA and DACA programs are a legal, commonsense exercise of the President’s longstanding authority to determine how to best use our resources and determine priorities under our immigration laws. I am confident that this case will return to the Supreme Court, where a full panel of justices will see through the political motives of this case and agree.” House Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra: "As the son of immigrants, I know first-hand how our country serves as a beacon of hope, opportunity, and freedom for millions people across the country. The Court’s deadlocked decision on expanded DACA and DAPA means that millions of hardworking people in America, who have worked to build our country up, might be separated from their loved ones. The Department of Justice should seek a rehearing before a full Court. We won’t stop fighting for immigrant rights and we won’t stop fighting to keep families together.” Congressman José Serrano: “Today’s Supreme Court deadlock decision is a disappointing setback, but not a definitive or defining decision for the countless immigrant families that will be affected by it. The President’s Executive Actions are within the Executive branch’s broad legal authority and in line with the precedent that has been established by every Administration during the last 50 years, and I am confident justice will prevail when a full nine justice Supreme Court reviews the case again after the current SCOTUS vacancy is filled. Furthermore, Democrats are committed to continue pushing for comprehensive immigration reform to address this and other issues related to immigration. Unfortunately, Republicans are celebrating this decision as a victory. Instead of celebrating they should be reaching across the aisle and working with Democrats on this important issue. President Obama had to take these actions because of the lack of action in Congress. The Supreme Court’s tie and inability to solve this case underscores again why it is important to get to work on fixing our nation’s broken immigration system, as leaders from the business, faith, and law enforcement communities, as well as Members of both parties have repeatedly called for.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard: “Today’s split decision from the Supreme Court is deeply disappointing. The ruling means that more immigrant families will be at risk of separation, more undocumented parents will be forced to stay in our nation’s shadows, and more noncitizens will be unable to contribute their talents in support of America’s communities and economy. I am confident that this case will return to the Supreme Court once the court has its full complement of nine justices again. In the meantime, the Department of Justice should keep working to defend the legality of these programs, and push for the case to be reheard by a full court as soon as possible.” Attribute to Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez: “The fact is that without the President’s Executive Action millions of immigrant families and thousands of New Yorkers will have to return to living in constant fear. These are our neighbors, our friends and our coworkers. They have contributed to building our communities and are American in every way, except for their legal status. Going forward, with this Court’s ruling, the need for immigration reform that keeps families together becomes all the more urgent. This will require action by a Congress that has, so far, failed to act responsibly. It is therefore all the more important the American people vote in November and elect Members of Congress willing to take on this issue and pass meaningful legislation.” Congressman Rubén Hinojosa: “I am deeply saddened by the Supreme Court’s deadlocked opinion. In crafting his immigration enforcement priorities, President Obama rightly chose to grant hard-working families, who love this country, relief from deportation. We are a compassionate nation built by immigrants, and this decision goes against the very essence of what it is to be American. This decision notwithstanding, I will continue fighting on behalf of our immigrant brethren. Moreover, I will continue to push for comprehensive immigration reform that serves for America’s best interests, promotes fairness and the rule of law, and contributes effectively and meaningfully to our economic well-being and recovery.” Congresswoman Grace Napolitano: “We are extremely disappointed the Supreme Court has been tainted by politics as usual, thanks to the overreach by one district court judge and the partisan obstruction of Republicans in Congress. The Court has failed the American people, and our communities will continue to suffer as a result. This illustrates exactly what is at stake when politicians play games with the nation’s highest court and why the Supreme Court vacancy must be filled. It is critical to note that today’s erroneous outcome does not impact DACA 2012, which was not at issue in this case. My Democratic colleagues and I remain committed to building on that progress we have made, embracing the contributions of more than 730,000 young DREAMers. Today’s setback is heartbreaking, but it will not deter us from fighting to ensure all immigrants can live in dignity, without fear of being separated from their families.” Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez: “I’m deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court’s split decision on U.S. v. Texas which sustains Texas state officials’ harmful politically motivated challenge. Our unjust and broken immigration system has forced millions of families into the shadows. We are a nation of immigrants: uniting and keeping our families together is an integral American value. We should be protecting the stability of our hard-working immigrant families instead of tearing them apart. Immigrants, regardless of legal status, deserve justice and dignity. Comprehensive immigration reform is the moral imperative of our time and our hard-working immigrant families have waited long enough for Congress to act.” Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva: “Today’s 4-4 Supreme Court ruling allows a flawed injunction against the expansion of DACA and DAPA to stand, leaving vulnerable people all across the country to continue suffering under an immigration system that splinters families and betrays our values. The silver lining is that a 4-4 tie is not precedent setting, and I hope that the Court revisits this vital issue with the urgency it deserves. But this does emphasize why the Republican refusal to confirm a ninth Supreme Court justice is so toxic to our legal system and our society. We are a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws, and both of those facts are betrayed by a political party that undermines the integrity of our highest court and attacks our president’s legal efforts to help aspiring Americans. I appreciate President Obama’s efforts to act where Republicans wouldn’t, but in light of this ruling, he must redouble his efforts to ensure innocent families do not continue to suffer. I will continue to work with this administration and the next to create a common sense immigration process once and for all.” Congressman Jim Costa: “Undoubtedly, today’s ruling is a setback to the progress made for immigrant families in the Valley and throughout the United States, but that does not mean we will stop fighting for these important policies that keep families together. I will continue to strongly support expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA). Our country’s current immigration system is not sustainable, it does not make economic sense, and it is not fair to families. Simply stated, as I have said many times, we have a broken immigration system that must be fixed. Let us never forget that that the U.S. is a nation of immigrants, and now, more than ever, we need Comprehensive Immigration Reform.” Congressman Ben Ray Lujan: “I am deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court’s decision that flies in the face of past legal rulings that have upheld the President’s authority to act on immigration. President Obama took legal action to enforce our existing immigration laws, just as every president since Eisenhower has done, including President Reagan and both President Bushes. I’m saddened to think about all of the families that will continue to be broken apart – mothers and fathers separated from their children – because of the Court’s decision today. This is yet another reminder why it is so important that Congress pass comprehensive immigration reform that is good for our economy, our security, and reflects the contributions immigrants make to our country every day. I am confident that the President’s executive actions will again be before the Supreme Court in the future, and on that day, the Justices will follow the law and not the extreme voices like Donald Trump and his Republican Party.” Congressman Tony Cárdenas: “We have fought for immigration reform for years. I am disappointed to see that even the highest court in the nation has left in the shadows the millions of people who live in our neighborhoods, work in our communities and strengthen our economy. Now more than ever, we need to come together to elect leaders who understand the value of immigrants and push the Senate to do their job of filling the Supreme Court vacancy. We must also encourage those who are eligible to become naturalized citizens and make their voices heard at the polls.” Congressman Pete Aguilar: “Today’s ruling was disappointing, but the fight for immigration reform goes on. The president’s executive actions are commonsense steps to address our broken immigration system while we wait for Congress to take action on comprehensive immigration reform. This ruling is not the end; it is a disheartening setback but the Supreme Court has not ruled on the merits of the actions and we will continue to fight for reforms that will keep hardworking immigrant families together. Senate Republicans’ refusal to hold confirmation hearings to fill the vacant seat on the Supreme Court has shown us the dangerous consequences of their continued and purposeful inaction.” Congresswoman Norma Torres: “I am disappointed the Court was deadlocked in this ruling, leaving thousands of families in the shadows and at risk of being ripped apart. As a matter of humanity, separating families or deporting people from the only country they have ever known is cruel and unjust. But as a matter of policy, DAPA and the DACA extension make our country stronger by allowing millions to legally work, get an education, and contribute to their communities, creating jobs and raising wages. Today’s decision reaffirms just how important it is for the Latino community to make their voices heard this November to elect a Democratic Congress that will finally do the right thing and fix our broken immigration system. These families deserve certainty, compassion, and a fair process to attain legal status and have a shot at the American Dream.” #### The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
06.23.2016	The following statement was issued today by House Democrats on the Zika and Military Construction-VA conference committee, Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Rep. José Serrano, Rep. Rosa DeLauro, Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), and Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz: “House Democrats will not sign this partisan conference report. “Four months ago, the President requested and justified $1.9 billion in emergency funding to mount a robust response to Zika, an urgent public health crisis. This conference report provides an insufficient amount, and offsets a portion of this funding by cutting other critically needed public health resources. Offsetting emergency spending would set a precedent that will hinder our ability to respond to the next public health crisis, natural disaster, or national security event requiring emergency funding. “This conference report includes language making access to contraceptive services more difficult at home and abroad, a senseless and counterproductive restriction when responding to a virus that can spread through sexual transmission. Furthermore, it would undermine the Clean Water Act and jeopardize our environment by allowing unrestricted use of toxic pesticides near waterways. “House Democrats remain willing to work in good faith to develop a bipartisan conference report that can be enacted into law.” ###
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Serrano today joined House Democrats’ sit-in on the House Floor to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to address gun violence. The sit-in takes place in the wake of the horrific act of terror and deadliest mass shooting in American history last week. “Congress has already had too many moments of silence for victims of gun violence. It’s time to take action. The Republican House is rushing toward another week away from Washington, DC. We cannot afford to leave without at least moving forward legislation to prevent the next tragedy,” said Rep. Serrano. “Today, I’m joining my fellow House Democrats on the floor to demand that Republicans end their ridiculous obstruction. Our appeal to Speaker Ryan and House Republicans is simple and more than reasonable: let the People’s House vote and decide on bipartisan and commonsense legislation that will help keep guns out of dangerous hands and is overwhelmingly supported by the American people. We won’t give up until Congress shows the courage that the American people expect from it. Until then No Bill, No Break.” House Democrats are calling on Speaker Ryan to allow an immediate vote on the following two bills specifically: The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background checks system; The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists, which House Republicans have blocked 13 times. “Earlier today, we debated an amendment to close the terror gap in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill,” added Serrano. “Although I spoke in favor of the amendment, it was sadly rejected along party lines. There have been too many tragedies in the Bronx and elsewhere involving gun violence. It is long past time to act for change.” ###
06.16.2016	House Democrats on the MilCon-VA and Zika Conference Committee today issued the following joint statement after the committee’s first meeting: “Sixteen weeks ago, President Obama requested urgent, emergency investments to protect American communities from the Zika virus. “Since then, about 2,000 cases of Zika have been diagnosed in the U.S. states and territories, including 372 pregnant women. Just in the two weeks between May 25 and June 8, nearly 100 pregnant women were infected with this devastating virus that is a known cause of microcephaly and other neurological disorders in developing babies. “As the virus has spread and its known effects have grown more severe, the House majority delayed and deflected, and finally got around to providing less than one-third of the President’s request. Even that paltry amount was offset with dangerous cuts to critical investments in Ebola and domestic public health preparedness. “The responsible path forward for this conference committee is to provide full funding of the President’s emergency request, including $1.1 billion in new Zika funds; $560 to restore Ebola funding and state public health funding that was been diverted to Zika; and $250 million in direct public health assistance to Puerto Rico – the epicenter of the outbreak in the United States – to deal with the impact of Zika. “If we do not act quickly and forcefully to respond to the threat of Zika now, we will face its costs for years to come.” ###
06.15.2016	Serrano Inserted Language in FY 2016 Appropriations Bill Requiring Report to Address Fraud Abuse in African-American and Latino Communities WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Jose E. Serrano applauded the release of the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) comprehensive plan to combat fraud in African-American and Latino communities. Serrano inserted language in the report accompanying the fiscal year 2016 Financial Services Appropriations bill requiring the FTC to develop the plan. “I thank the FTC for developing this comprehensive strategy to address fraud in minority communities,” said Congressman Serrano. “I asked for this report in last year’s appropriations bill because numerous studies show that minority communities, particularly African-American and Latino communities, experience fraud at much higher rates than the population as a whole. From auto loans, to debt related scams, to immigration related fraud, minority communities are disproportionately targeted by bad actors. This report is an effort to look at the commonalities across all of these diverse areas of fraud, and to develop policies that help our communities detect, report, and stop fraud efforts. This is an important step forward by the FTC, and I look forward to working with them to ensure this plan can be fully implemented.” The report, available here, develops a comprehensive strategy to address fraud affecting minority communities, including expanded efforts to improve awareness and reporting of fraud, increased law enforcement against fraud efforts focused on minority communities, and enhanced outreach to African-American and Latino communities. According to the FTC Fraud Survey released in 2013, African-American and Latino communities are disproportionately targeted for, and victims of, fraud efforts. Additionally, studies have shown that there is significant underreporting of fraud in minority communities. The strategy released today helps to address both issues. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Ranking Democrat on the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the Federal Trade Commission.
06.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Members released the following statements in response to this weekend’s shooting in Orlando, Florida. 49 people were killed and 53 more were wounded during an LGBT dance club “Latin Flavor” night. The attack is the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. CHC Chairwoman Linda T. Sánchez: “We are heartbroken, devastated, and also outraged with yet another mass shooting. We know that many of the victims in Orlando were young Latinos. This act of terrorism is an affront to everything we stand for as a country, for it is our rich diversity that makes us so special. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus mourns for the victims and their families, and stands with every LGBTQ brother and sister who is now fearful of being who they are. It takes an act of courage to live life openly and this LGBT Pride Month, we fight harder than ever before to ensure that love wins.” CHC First Vice Chair Michelle Lujan Grisham: "Like many friends and neighbors in New Mexico, my first reaction this morning was to question how this act of hate and terror in Orlando could occur just hours after we joined together in Albuquerque for a joyous celebration of love for one another. That celebration of love defines us as Americans, not the hate and terrorism that is meant to divide us. No doubt, we must grieve for the tragic victims of this mass shooting. They were our sons, daughters, brothers and sisters, probably celebrating just as we were doing Saturday along Central Avenue. They and their families are in our prayers. I will also take the time, as I continue to contemplate what happened, to reflect back on that celebration of love. I refuse to let terrorism win." CHC Second Vice Chair Joaquin Castro: “Yesterday, our nation suffered the loss of 50 innocent lives in an abhorrent attack. My prayers are with the families who lost loved ones, the city of Orlando, and everyone in the LGBT community. Love will always prevail over hate, and our freedoms will withstand any terror. In the wake of this tragedy, we must redouble our vigilance and resolve in defending against any threats to our safety and values.” CHC Whip Ruben Gallego: "I am shocked and horrified by this hate-filled and tragic shooting in Orlando. I stand in solidarity with the LGBT community during this difficult time. It is especially egregious that these men and women were attacked at a place they considered a safe haven, free of the hate and judgement some of them experience on a daily basis. There is no place for hate in America. My heart is with those who lost loved ones in this senseless act of violence. But I know that ‘thoughts and prayers’ are never enough and can't bring back those that were lost. It is time for Congress to take serious action to address the epidemic of gun violence that is plaguing our nation." Congressman José E. Serrano: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Orlando and the LGBT community in this difficult time, especially the victims and their families. Although all the details surrounding this tragedy are still emerging, one thing is clear: we have to do more to protect our country and communities from acts of terror and hate. But in the midst of mourning this senseless tragedy, we cannot simply resort to demonizing others. As the LGBT community reminds us: we can’t fight hate with hate. Lastly, we also cannot ignore the role that our nation's ineffective gun control laws have played in the tragic mass shootings that have shaken our nation in recent years. It is long past time for Congress to act to reduce gun violence.” Congressman Luis Gutiérrez: “There is anguish and deep sadness across the country when another group of people are lost too young and so senselessly. There are too many guns in too many hands, too much anger, hatred and division, and too much slaughter in Orlando, Charleston, Ft Hood, Sandy Hook, San Bernardino, Virginia Tech, and every single week in Chicago and cities and towns across the country. No one should have access to assault rifles, but Congress refuses to act.” Senator Robert Menendez: “My heart breaks for the families and the victims of this horrific tragedy. This targeting of our Latino LGBT brothers and sisters is an attack on us all, and we stand united condemning this senseless and monstrous attack. This was not just an act of terror, but an act of hate. It is too easy in this country for individuals who want to do us harm to get their hands on high-powered, military-style assault weapons. We need a frank, honest debate about our country's lax gun laws. We, as a nation, can no longer sit idly by while our loved ones are needlessly slaughtered.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard: “I join my fellow Americans in mourning this despicable act of terror. Orlando, the City Beautiful, is today a city shattered by unthinkable loss. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, the LGBT community, and everyone touched by this tragedy. As we mourn, we must resolve to meet this act of hate with unity, love, and strength. We must stand up for the dignity of every American, regardless of sexual orientation, race, or religion. And we must finally take sensible action to protect innocent Americans from the plague of gun violence.” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez: “The attack in Orlando is an affront to our nation’s values of tolerance, inclusiveness and love for one another. We must all stand together with Orlando in condemning this act and making clear that we will not let hate win.” Congressman Rubén Hinojosa: “I wish to express my heartfelt condolences to the family, friends, and loved ones of the victims in the horrific shooting that occurred this Sunday morning in Orlando, Florida. This incident is the deadliest in U.S. history with 50 lives lost and dozens more wounded. I also want share my gratitude to local law enforcement and first responders who answered the call to action in order to prevent further loss and investigators who continue their due diligence to get to the bottom of this situation. No person regardless of their race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or partner preference should have to suffer or be targeted for who they are. Love is love, and love conquers hate.” Congressman Raúl Grijalva: “My heart breaks for the victims of last night's attack, for their families and for those in hospitals now facing a long road to recovery. This was an attack on the LGBT community during Pride Month at an iconic location for the community. Nothing could be more heinous. As our nation comes to grips with the fact that this was the single worst shooting attack in US history, I urge everyone to give law enforcement the time they need to do their jobs, and the families impacted the privacy they need in this unimaginably difficult time.” Congressman Ben Ray Luján: “Our nation grieves in the wake of a terrible act of terror that left 49 people dead and 53 people injured. As we continue to learn more behind the motivation for this heinous crime, there is no doubt that it was rooted in hatred. In a month when our country celebrates the contributions of the LGBT community, this attack is particularly distressing. My thoughts and prayers are with all those who were killed or injured, as well as with the people of Orlando and the LGBT community.” Congressman Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan: “The people of the Mariana Islands, like Americans everywhere, are horrified by this senseless act of violence and the loss of so many lives. We share the feeling that the easy availability of guns - especially guns designed for military combat - is part of the reason for what happened in Orlando and happens all too often around our nation.” Congressman Tony Cárdenas: “Those of us who love this country and welcome the differences of others; those of us who live our lives peacefully and work to make this nation a better place – WE are stronger than any act of hate will ever be. That is why now is the time for us to demand that something change. We can correct course from last night. We can combat the ignorance that pervades the minds of the elected Congressmen and women who don't believe this nation has a gun issue. We can overcome the heartache that targeted acts of violence and hate crimes bring to our communities. Congress must address these issues head-on and find a better solution now.” Congressman Raul Ruiz: “A terrorist attack against any community in the U.S is an attack against all Americans. This mass shooting is absolutely deplorable and I condemn it in the strongest terms. My heart goes out to the victims and their families. Together we mourn and send our prayers to the victims and their families. Together we thank the first responders in the front lines. Together we stand strong against hate crimes of any form, and together we will defeat terrorism and eliminate ISIS." Congressman Pete Aguilar: “Americans should feel safe in their communities and be able to live without fear that terrorists could strike their neighborhoods at any moment because guns are too accessible to those who want to kill. We can and we must do better – for Orlando, for San Bernardino and for us all.” Congresswoman Norma Torres: “We owe it to the victims and their families to have a serious conversation about why mass shootings like the one that took place in Orlando have become all too common in our country and what we can do to prevent them. If we truly want to honor those who lost their lives, we can’t be silent or turn to fear and division. We must respond with love, compassion, and action.” #### The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
06.10.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Reps. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, José E. Serrano (D-the Bronx), and Ben Ray Luján (D-NM) announced the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill includes their push to require the National Science Foundation to move forward with a grant program to support Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education at Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs). Specifically, the language directs the National Science Foundation to establish a STEM grant program for these Institutions no more than 120 days after enactment of the bill and demonstrate a $30,000,000 investment no later than September 30, 2017. A STEM grant program would support designated Hispanic-Serving Institutions – where Hispanic students constitute at least a quarter of full-time enrollment – in faculty development, stipends for undergraduate research, and curriculum-improvement initiatives in these critical fields. Encouraging underrepresented minorities, such as Hispanic students, to enter STEM fields is crucial for our country’s economic future. “STEM skills are critical for our country to compete in a global economy, but unfortunately, Hispanic students are severely underrepresented in these fields of tomorrow,” said Rep. Crowley. “With a dedicated grants program, we can help Hispanic students reach their rightful place in the STEM fields. I’m thrilled this legislation includes this important language and funding, and I hope this puts us one step closer to finally creating this critical program.” “I'm proud to once again partner with my colleagues Representatives Joe Crowley and Ben Ray Luján to include this report language to expand efforts to increase minority participation in STEM fields. STEM jobs are the jobs of the future and crucial to U.S. competitiveness. We need to ensure Hispanics, the fastest growing demographic, are adequately prepared to take advantage of the opportunities that are available and that will only continue to increase in the future. This STEM grant program will steer millions in funding through the National Science Foundation to schools throughout the country focused on serving Hispanic students,” said Rep. Serrano. “In today’s 21st century economy, a degree in STEM translates into high-paying, in-demand jobs and is vital to our nation’s competitiveness, yet there is a lack of diversity when it comes to Hispanics in the workforce,” said Rep. Luján. “It is critical that we strengthen the pipeline of skilled workers by encouraging Hispanic students to pursue a degree in the STEM fields. The funding included in this legislation will make this a priority so that instead of just using the latest app, Hispanic students will become a driving force that is creating them.” “The Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU) is delighted Congress continues to strongly support the creation of a dedicated institutional development grant program for Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) at the National Science Foundation,” said Antonio R. Flores, HACU president and CEO. “Since Congress initially authorized the creation of this program in 2010, its implementation has been one of HACU’s top policy priorities. On behalf of the 435 HSIs across the country, we are immensely grateful to Representatives Crowley, Serrano, and Luján for their unwavering support of this goal. HACU also thanks Chairman John Culberson (TX), chairman of the House Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee. Without his support, this language would not have been included in the 2017 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies’ appropriations bill report. The continued leadership and commitment to HSIs from these Members of Congress will have a lasting impact on the lives of Hispanic students and of their families and communities.” Crowley, Serrano, and Luján have been leaders in the effort to secure grant opportunities for HSIs, including co-authoring legislation and leading successful measures in the U.S. House of Representatives, as well as writing multiple letters in support of these institutions. In 2007, Crowley inserted language in the America COMPETES Act allowing the National Science Foundation to create a program focused on HSIs. Despite having this authority, the NSF has yet to establish such a program. In 2015, the members introduced the HOPES Act, legislation that would direct the NSF to establish the program, as well as establish a dedicated stream of funding for students attending HSIs. Last year, the House of Representatives passed the members’ amendment to the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act to the NSF to establish the program. The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill funds the Departments of Justice and Commerce, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), National Science Foundation (NSF), and other related agencies. This language was included in the committee report that accompanies the legislation as a result of efforts earlier this year, when Rep. Crowley led a letter requesting that the Appropriations Committee direct $30 million to the NSF specifically to create this STEM program for HSIs. ###
06.09.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman José Serrano today released the following statement in support of HR 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) in its current form: “After long and careful consideration, I have decided to support HR 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) in its current form. While I do have serious reservations about some of the provisions in this bill, I am convinced that under the present circumstances this is the best and only viable option for Puerto Rico to be able to restructure all of its debts in an orderly manner and to allow the island to start tackling the fiscal crisis. “As a Puerto Rican who cares deeply about the impact that this bill will have on the Puerto Rican people, this has been a very difficult decision. Watching the island sink as Congress has ignored our pleas for help has been disheartening and difficult. We are now faced with urgent needs, as Puerto Rico is running out of time and cash. In less than a month, the government will face another $2 billion worth of payments coming due. “This is not the bill that I would have written. I am particularly concerned about the inclusion of unnecessary and harmful riders affecting working families, a potentially overburdensome set of powers for the oversight board, and the lack of pension protections. As a longtime friend of working families, and an advocate for fairness in Puerto Rico, these parts of the bill are not helpful in allowing Puerto Rico to begin its economic recovery. “That said, this legislation does include several important provisions that will help Puerto Rico get out from under its mountain of debt. It is estimated that the comprehensive debt restructuring process in H.R. 5278 will save Puerto Rico billions in annual debt payments- money that can be reinvested in Puerto Rico’s economy and its people. The bill also provides some space for negotiation between the government and bondholders by allowing a temporary moratorium on lawsuits. In addition, the legislation requires that any fiscal plan include adequate funding for the deeply troubled pension system and prevents the government of Puerto Rico from balancing its budget by short-changing pensions, something the government has done for decades. The bill in its current form will provide real benefits for Puerto Rico. “Politically, we are at a point where Republicans and Democrats negotiators have agreed on this bill. In a Republican led Congress, this compromise legislation is the only one with a possibility of getting to the President’s desk. There is no realistic alternative. “Simply put, it is either this bill, with its flaws, or nothing. Doing nothing will only lead to the crisis getting worse. Vulture funds will file lawsuits that could take further funding away from essential programs and services in Puerto Rico. The public pension system will go broke within three years, and will have no protections in court battles. The economic situation will only get worse for millions of Puerto Ricans. “I strongly support doing more for Puerto Rico than what is in this bill- and I will work with others inside and outside of Congress to try and find ways to ensure Puerto Rico receives better treatment under federal programs. But I cannot in good conscience sit here and advocate for doing nothing as the crisis deepens with each passing day. That is all that will happen if this bill does not move forward in Congress. “Should we face a different political situation in January, then it may be possible to provide additional assistance to Puerto Rico and to fix the problems of this bill. I pledge to do everything possible to make that a reality, as I have during all of my 26 years in Congress. “Lastly, I think that these months of debate on this bill finally end the discussion about the current status of Puerto Rico. For too long, many have believed the fiction that Puerto Rico can somehow have the best of both worlds under the commonwealth status- local autonomy with the full benefits of American citizenship. This fiction papered over what we have known all along- that for the past 118 years, Puerto Rico has been a colony of the United States, treated unfairly and unequally. The result of that colonial relationship is on display today- both in Puerto Rico’s inability to address the crisis under the current status, and in the fact that the debate on assisting Puerto Rico reaffirms the island’s second class status in our nation. “Under either statehood or independence Puerto Rico would have had access to the tools necessary to address a fiscal crisis of this magnitude without resorting to begging Congress for assistance. The only reason we are in this situation today is because of the current status, which prevents Puerto Rico, and Puerto Ricans, from equal representation and equal treatment under federal laws, and prevents the island, as a territory of the United States, from accessing international monetary assistance. Given its critical role in creating this crisis, it is clear that the commonwealth status can no longer stand. “The debate around Puerto Rico’s economic crisis should launch a larger, more vigorous discussion about Puerto Rico’s future. It is time for those who want to solve the problem of the status of Puerto Rico once and for all to unite in favor of change. It is time for the status to change to something other than its current colonial form; it is time for Puerto Ricans to choose between statehood or independence and end the status that has led us to this moment. This bill preserves that ability, and federal funding has been allocated for that purpose. Now we have to move in that direction.” Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the longest serving Member of Congress of Puerto Rican heritage.
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The four Puerto Rican Democratic Members of Congress released a letter they wrote to President Obama asking for a meeting to discuss the “immediate release” of Oscar López Rivera, a federal prisoner for 35 years who is considered the last Puerto Rican political prisoner held by the United States. The letter, sent on February 24, 2016, makes the case for Mr. López Rivera’s release and appeals to the President’s sense of justice, saying: Mr. President, you have articulated a wise, healthy policy in support of giving people serving disproportionate sentences a second chance, recognizing that the constitutional power of pardon is the correct remedy. You have to date responsibly commuted many disproportionate sentences of drug offenders and others – and we have seen that public reaction has been favorable, and indeed critical only of the fact that you have not issued more such commutations. As we see it, there is no legitimate penological objective being served by the ongoing imprisonment of this 73 year old Puerto Rican, when his people and others who value human rights clamor for his release. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Rep. Jose Serrano (D-NY), Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi of Puerto Rico all signed the letter, but so far, have not been granted a meeting with the President to discuss the matter. The letter is part of a broad, diverse, and sustained call for Mr. López Rivera’s release coming from all sectors across Puerto Rico and the Puerto Rican diaspora and allies. All four Democratic Puerto Ricans in Congress have been engaged in an extensive, quiet campaign over the past several years to build support for Mr. López Rivera’s release. The full text of the letter is here: http://1.usa.gov/1UfDiPN # # #
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Serrano was appointed to be one of the 5 Democratic members that will be a part of the conference committee of the House and Senate versions of the FY 2017 Military Construction-VA Appropriations bill that includes funding to address the Zika virus. The Zika funding levels included in both the House and Senate versions of the bill are below the $1.9 billion requested by the President and recommended by top U.S. public health officials. “The Zika bills that Republicans have sent to conference are an insufficient and indefensible effort to address a serious problem that threatens to affect many Americans’ health in the future,” said Congressman Serrano. “Zika is already spreading in the United States, and in particular in Puerto Rico. We can’t postpone addressing this problem and allocating the right amount of funding. The President and public health experts have recommended $1.9 billion to address this crisis, but Republicans have gone with figures well below that number. As a member of the conference committee, I look forward to helping shine a light on Republicans’ irresponsibility and demanding the full amount necessary to properly address it.” The five House Democratic members appointed to the conference committee are: Congresswoman Nita Lowey of New York, Ranking Member, Committee on Appropriations Congressman José Serrano of New York Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut Congressman Sanford Bishop of Georgia Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
05.23.2016	The Bronx, NY – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano; Bronx Borough President Rubén Díaz, Jr.; Senator Rubén Díaz; Assemblyman José Rivera; Councilmember Rafael Salamanca; Lorraine Castellano, District Manager of the New York District, United States Postal Service; Bronx Postmaster Lilliam Rodriguez and other local elected officials held a ceremony today to officially rename and inaugurate the Herman Badillo Post Office located at 442 East 167th St. in Morrisania. The change of the name of the post office was made possible thanks to a bill introduced by Congressman Serrano and the New York Congressional delegation, H.R. 1350, that was approved in July of 2015 to celebrate the Honorable Herman Badillo’s achievements as Bronx Borough President, Congressman, and Deputy Mayor of New York City. Badillo was the first Puerto Rican to hold each of these offices.From left to right: Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz; Lorraine Castellano, District Manager of the New York District, USPS; Gail Badillo; Bronx Postmaster Lilliam Rodriguez. (5/23/2016) Congressman Serrano Unveils the Officially Renamed Herman Badillo Post Office. (5/23/2016) Sign with new name of Herman Badillo Post Office made possible by an Act of Congress. (5/23/2016) Congressman Serrano said, “I am thrilled to celebrate the renaming of the Herman Badillo Post Office and to be joined by so many familiar faces, including Gail Badillo. To many of us, Badillo was a friend, to others a mentor, but to all of us he was a legend and a hero we will remember for generations to come. He was not only the first Puerto Rican to hold many elected posts at the local, state, and federal levels, but his work was instrumental in Puerto Ricans’ civic participation in local politics and in bringing attention to issues of concern to the community. Renaming this Post Office, a historic building in the heart of the Bronx, used by thousands every week, is a fitting tribute that will help ensure his legacy and memory live on.Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. said, “I was proud to join so many friends and colleagues here today to pay tribute to the federal service of a trailblazer, a mentor and a friend, my predecessor in the borough president’s office and our former congressman, Herman Badillo. Today's rededication ceremony is a fitting tribute to his trailblazing service to The Bronx, the City and our nation in the House of Representatives,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr.Councilmember Rafael Salamanca, Jr. said: “As the first Puerto Rican to serve as the Bronx Borough President and as a member of Congress, it is safe to say that the Hon. Herman Badillo was a trailblazer. Truly, many of us who have followed him would not have been able to do so without his tenacity and courage, and it is only fitting that we honor him today and for many years to come.” Lorraine Castellano, District Manager of the New York District, United States Postal Service said: “Today’s rededication is one of the most prestigious honors the United States Postal Service bestows on an individual who has reached the pinnacle of respect from this nation. The Postal Service is thankful to be able to be part of this special event in the name of Congressman Herman Badillo. “ Senator Schumer said: "Herman Badillo -- the first Puerto Rican elected to the United Stated Congress -- was a true Bronx Boy and a New York original. I can think of no one more deserving of the honor of having this building named after him than Herman Badillo. Herman Badillo exemplified the American ethos that you can achieve greatness and enact positive change regardless of humble beginnings and economic disadvantage and discrimination. The Herman Badillo Post Office in Morrisania is a fitting tribute to his legacy of work for civil rights, equal opportunity, education reform and more.”Senator Gillibrand said: “Congressman Herman Badillo will be remembered for his tenacity, dedication to service, and passion for the issues facing his fellow New Yorkers. His advocacy on behalf of the families he fought for left an indelible mark on the community. With this post office renaming, we honor Herman Badillo’s pivotal leadership and celebrate his contributions to the community he fought for and proudly represented throughout his life.” Rep. Charles Rangel said, "Our friend Herman Badillo was a fixture in New York City politics for nearly four decades, championing civil rights, jobs, housing and educational reform. Even after his passing, he continues to be a true testament to the American Dream. This post office in his honor is a fitting way to preserve and honor the legacy of a champion in the Bronx. I thank Congressman Serrano for leading the New York Congressional Delegation to push the bill through and make this day come true. It is a joyous occasion for all of us." Rep. Joe Crowley said: “Herman Badillo was not only a trailblazer for the Latino community, but a champion for vulnerable communities everywhere,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “By naming this post office after Badillo, we can honor his legacy and ensure that future generations will recognize a man who did so much for our community. This truly is a wonderful day to celebrate the life of Herman Badillo and I thank Congressman Serrano for leading this effort.” Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
05.19.2016	Washington, DC - Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY-15) and Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-7) commented on legislation related to Puerto Rico that was introduced tonight. The following may be attributed to Serrano: “Once again I thank the Natural Resources committee for taking into consideration our feedback and incorporating numerous suggestions from our side. I also want to thank leadership from both sides of the aisle for their hard work to bring the bill to this point. “The bill agreed to and released by the committee represents real progress, including in the restructuring language and in preserving local input in the process. It is not perfect, and further changes may be needed in addressing issues affecting working families and retirees as this legislation moves through the House, but I believe that we have taken several steps in the right direction. I look forward to working on these issues as the bill moves forward, and providing the island with the tools needed to comprehensively address this crisis.”The following may be attributed to Velázquez: “The debt crisis facing Puerto Rico and its people is growing worse by the day, but I am encouraged by the recent introduction of legislation to assist the island. “Real progress has been made to make a comprehensive restructuring process truly accessible for Puerto Rico, which is the most critical component of the bill for Puerto Ricans. Debt restructuring represents the only path to reducing the island’s suffocating debt load and, without it, Puerto Ricans will face harsher cuts in education, safety and health. “In other areas, significant improvements have also been made from previous versions to make the Oversight Board more respectful of the island. While the bill continues to contain wage provisions and a lack of pension protections, both of these matters have benefitted from changes in the bill. Wage provisions were made less harmful and bondholder prioritization language was dropped. Would I like to see further changes? Yes, but the bill in its current form represents real compromise. “To push this across the finish line, there are several improvements that I would like to see made – and this is what the legislative process is for. In this regard, I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues as the bill moves through Congress. “I want to especially thank Leader Pelosi, Speaker Ryan, Ranking Member Grijalva and Chairman Bishop for their leadership. I also have to recognize Antonio Weiss of the Department of Treasury for his perseverance in working to get this deal done.” # # #
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) released the following statements denouncing Rep. Paul Gosar’s (R-AZ) amendment to the 2016 defense funding bill, which would prevent undocumented young people brought to the United States as children – known as DREAMers – from serving in the military. Currently, select individuals can serve under special circumstances. Rep. Gosar is leading a group of far-right Republicans, including Reps. Steve King (R-IA) and Mo Brooks (R-AL) in an effort to remove bipartisan compromise language from the NDAA that confirms that the Secretary of Defense has the ability to use his broad discretionary power to enlist immigrants – including beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program – if he determines it is in the national interest. Rep. Gosar’s amendment would change current DOD policy by preventing DACA recipients with in-demand skills, including special language skills, from enlisting through the Department’s Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MAVNI) program. It would also prevent the Secretary from enlisting DREAMers with other critical skills in the future, even if he determines that doing so would be in the interest of national security. By contrast, CHC Member Congressman Tony Cárdenas has introduced an amendment that would guarantee that the compromised language will not be changed in the future. This means that DREAMers with in-demand skills – including special language skills needed in the fight against ISIS – would continue to be eligible to enlist through the MAVNI program. CHC Chairwoman Linda T. Sánchez: “Republicans continue to reach new lows with their endless attacks on the Latino community. These young men and women want to serve the only country many of them have ever called home. They should be honored and celebrated, not discriminated against. This latest attack on DREAMers puts our national security at risk. We need a diverse military workforce made up of dedicated men and women in uniform who hold different language and technical skills. Rep. Gosar’s amendment strips away what is already very limited in scope. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus denounces this Republican effort and urges support of Rep. Tony Cárdenas’ amendment, which would ensure that all DREAMers are able to serve our country.” CHC Second Vice Chair Joaquin Castro: “DREAMers willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for this nation, the home they love, should be celebrated not rebuked. The United States and our military are stronger thanks to the contributions of immigrants. If the Secretary of Defense determines DACA recipients can help keep our nation safe, he should have the authority to permit their service.” CHC Whip Ruben Gallego: “This shouldn’t be a controversial issue. This is about defense and what is in the best interest of our nation and our military. I fought in Iraq, and I know that on the battlefield what matters is the character, commitment, and skills of the people you serve with, not their immigration status. I look forward to a vigorous and open debate on this important issue on the House floor this week.” Congressman José Serrano: “America’s strength and capacity should not suffer because of anti-immigrant, partisan interests. The United States has a rich history of immigrants serving in our military. Dreamers that qualify to serve in the U.S. military under existing law possess unique skills and experiences that only strengthen our nation’s capacity abroad. Preventing DREAMers from serving is a disservice to our military and to our national security.” Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez: “For people that have gone through the process of applying for and being granted DACA, we should welcome their service and dedication. Republicans should not recoil in fear every time immigrants want to contribute to the strength, vitality and defense of the United States.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard: “Congressman Gosar’s amendment is completely unacceptable. Its attempt to stop DREAMers from serving in the military is an insult to the patriotism, courage, and talent of these young men and women. It robs our nation of many fine soldiers who could serve America with pride and distinction. And in depriving our military of these talented individuals, the amendment makes it more difficult for our military to preserve its status as the finest fighting force in the world, defending the finest democracy in the world. I strongly oppose Congressman Gosar’s damaging amendment.” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez: “We’ve repeatedly seen that DREAMers are American in every way other than in their legal status. These immigrants have valuable skills our military could benefit from and this discriminatory amendment, which would preclude them from serving our nation, should be defeated.” Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez: "As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I strongly believe we should allow our hardworking and patriotic DREAMers to honorably serve their adopted nation through the military. I’m incredibly disappointed that Rep. Gosar has introduced an unfair and close-minded amendment to the NDAA that would undo this important achievement and shut the door on a talent pool that’s already in our country. Denying motivated and talented DREAMers the opportunity to serve will be a disservice to our military and our country.” Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva: “Rep. Gosar’s mean spirited amendment to strip from DREAMers the right to serve in uniform is clearly not about the integrity or quality of our military, but instead an attack on young people who call this country home. Rep. Gosar continues to carry Arizona’s flag for intolerance, and he’s marking a new low by undermining young people willing to sacrifice for our nation. America became great by welcoming people from around the world, and our military is no exception. This amendment doesn’t just betray that important history – it goes against the grain of who we are as a people.” Congressman Ben Ray Luján: "This spiteful amendment weakens our national security in an attempt to demonize Dreamers and deny them an opportunity to serve the country they call home. With this amendment, Republicans are clearly putting their political interests ahead of the national interest with harsh anti-immigrant policies that take away the Defense Secretary’s authority to enlist Dreamers when it is in the national interest." Congressman Tony Cárdenas: "My amendment would ensure that DACA recipients would be able to serve in the military as part of the MAVNI program without the threat of it being taken away based off of one person's opinion in the moment. By taking out a few words that make the provision discretionary, we are ensuring that men and women who love this country and are willing to protect our constitution will be able to do so for as long as MAVNI exists. Making this slight change in language prioritizes the safety of Americans and those looking to prove their allegiance. It's a win-win for all." Congressman Pete Aguilar: “To deny brave men and women the opportunity to defend the only nation they call home is fundamentally un-American. This amendment is rooted in bigotry and opposes our country’s core values. If someone is willing to give their life to keep our country safe and free, then at the very least we owe that brave service member the dignity and respect to call him or her a United States citizen.” Congresswoman Norma Torres: “This amendment is petty, divisive, and damaging to our national security interests. Many of these young men and women know no other country and are willing to give their lives in defense of the United States. We should be commending this commitment and welcoming their skills, not demonizing them because of circumstances beyond their control.”
05.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that Bronx Community College (BCC) has been awarded $899,744 in funding to develop an Associated of Applied Science degree in Chemical and BioEnergy Technology for Sustainability in collaboration with industrial, governmental, and academic partners. The new program’s curriculum combine the disciplines of biology, chemistry and engineering with the objective of preparing community college students for careers in the growing bio-economy and the areas of green chemistry and fermentation science. The initiative builds upon ongoing projects at BCC, including the Center for Sustainable Energy, which Congressman Serrano helped inaugurate by securing $5 million in federal funding, and the College Now program. Through College Now, high school students will be able to earn college credits to eventually pursue careers in these fields. “Many of the future jobs in the Bronx will be in the green energy economy, and this grant will prepare more of our students for jobs in this growing field,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “With this grant and the creation of an Associate of Applied Science degree in Chemical and BioEnergy Technology for Sustainability, we are preparing Bronx youth for good jobs and ensuring that these fields fully reflect the diversity of our nation. This is an important federal investment in the future of Bronx students, and will help improve our local economy.” The program’s ultimate goal is to prepare students and provide them with employable skills in emerging STEM fields related to clean, renewable energy and chemicals using biomass feedstock platforms. It will also serve as a model in preparing students for STEM careers and developing middle employment skills (i.e. skills in computer technology, nursing, high-skill manufacturing, and other fields). ###
05.05.2016	The Bronx, NY – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement celebrating of Cinco de Mayo, widely commemorated in the Mexican community and by all Americans. Cinco de Mayo marks the Mexican army’s victory in the Battle of Puebla in 1862, which stopped the French invasion of the country, and is a source of great pride for individuals of Mexican descent. “Happy Cinco de Mayo to all my Mexican friends and everyone who celebrates this important day! Today we celebrate Mexican culture and history by remembering the men and women who stopped the French invasion of Mexico in 1862 in the Battle of Puebla. Mexicans were outnumbered and underequipped but on May 5, 1862 they defeated one of the strongest armies in the world at the time. This was a feat of courage, and to this day is a source of great pride. “Cinco de Mayo also serves as an opportunity to celebrate the countless contributions Mexican-Americans have made to our nation and our borough. We also celebrate the rich cultural traditions and strong community values that characterize the Mexican and Hispanic community. In the Bronx, Mexican-Americans have brought new life to many neighborhoods in the South Bronx. Their contributions cannot be underestimated, and their needs can’t be ignored. We must continue working on a comprehensive immigration reform that provides families with the relief they need and that contributes to our economic prosperity.” The latest Census estimates indicate that there are now approximately 65,000 people of Mexican descent living in the 15th Congressional District. ###
05.05.2016	The Bronx, NY – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today announced the winner from the 15th District of the 2016 Congressional Art competition (The Artistic Discovery Contest) at an award ceremony held at Hostos Community College. Jonathan Surujlall from the Parkchester community, was selected as this year’s winner for his black and white charcoal drawing of "Bob Marley.” Jonathan’s work was selected from art pieces submitted from high schools throughout the 15th District and will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol along with the artworks of other winners from across the nation. “Every year, I am amazed by all of the talent there is in our district during the Congressional Art Competition. This year was no exception. Congratulations to our first place winner, Jonathan, and to all the students from my district who participated by submitting their artwork. Jonathan’s artwork will be exhibited in the Capitol for one year, so make sure to stop by and see it the next time you visit Congress!” said Congressman Serrano. A nation-wide high school arts competition sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, the Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. The first place winner of the competition in several districts throughout the nation will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The Artistic Discovery Contest is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as within our congressional district. If you would like more information on the annual Congressional District Art Competition - including deadlines - please visit: https://serrano.house.gov/services/art-competition . Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Senators John Hoeven (R-N.D.) and Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) and Representatives José Serrano (D-N.Y.), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-Mo.), Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), and Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today announced that both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives have now approved legislation to name the bison as the National Mammal of the United States. The Senate passed the National Bison Legacy Act in December and the U.S. House of Representatives passed its version Tuesday night. The bill was introduced by Senators Hoeven and Heinrich in the Senate and in the U.S. House of Representatives by Reps. Clay, Fortenberry, Noem and Serrano. The Senate sponsors expect the Senate to concur with the House bill later this week and send the legislation to the president to be signed into law. In addition to naming the bison as the U.S. national mammal, the National Bison Legacy Act recognizes the historical, cultural and economic significance of the bison, which is the largest land mammal in America and revered by many Native American tribes as a sacred and spiritual symbol of their heritage. “The bison has a special place not only in U.S. history, but also in the Bronx community. It is the largest land mammal native to the United States and thanks to the Wildlife Conservation Society and the Bronx Zoo, which took the lead in saving the bison from extinction more than a century ago, we can still enjoy its majesty today. The National Bison Legacy Act will help recognize the importance of Bison in American history, and will help bring attention to the unique role that the Bronx played in preserving that legacy,” said Congressman Serrano, a supporter of natural preservation and long-time supporter of this bill. “The bison, like the bald eagle, has for many years been a symbol of America for its strength, endurance and dignity, reflecting the pioneer spirit of America,” Senator Hoeven said. “Both the Senate and the House have now passed the National Bison Legacy Act, which names this noble animal as our national mammal. This is a fitting designation that recognizes the important cultural and economic role the bison has played in our nation’s history.” “Bison are a uniquely American animal and are the embodiment of American strength and resilience,” said Senator Heinrich. “The bison has been an important part of our culture for many generations, especially in New Mexico, across the West, and in Indian Country. Recognition of our new national mammal will bring a new source of pride for Americans—just like the bald eagle—and also bring greater attention to ongoing conservation and species recovery efforts. I hope that in my lifetime, thanks to a broad coalition of conservation ranchers, wildlife advocates, and tribal nations, we will see bison return to the prominent place they once occupied in our nation’s shortgrass prairies.” “No other indigenous species tells America’s story better than this noble creature. The American bison is an enduring symbol of strength, native American culture and the boundless western wildness. It is an integral part of the still largely untold story of Native Americans and their historic contributions to our national identity. I was proud to sponsor and help pass this legislation in the House and I truly appreciate this show of bipartisan support from my Senate colleagues as well,” said Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. “The Tatanka is important both physically and spiritually in Native American culture. This bill recognizes that,” said Congresswoman Noem. “Bison are a cultural example of how to live in a healthy and productive manner. There are also lessons to be learned about resilience from these animals, which were nearly being wiped from existence at one point. Through the efforts of tribes, ranchers, conservationists and others, the species has survived and can once again be lifted as a literal and cultural example of productivity from which each of us can learn.” “The adoption of bison as our National Mammal represents a validation of the many meaningful ways this animal represents America. As an ecological keystone, cultural bedrock and economic driver, the bison conveys values such as unity, resilience and commitment to healthy landscapes and communities. Bison takes a place alongside the bald eagle as a national symbol to be revered,” said John Calvelli, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) Executive Vice President of Public Affairs. More than 40 million bison once roamed across most of North America, but by the late 1800s, fewer than one thousand bison remained. The species is acknowledged as the first American conservation success story, having been brought back from the brink of extinction by a concerted effort of ranchers, conservationists and politicians to save the species in the early 20th century. In 1905, President Theodore Roosevelt and the American Bison Society led an effort to save bison from extinction by establishing a captive breeding program at the Bronx Zoo. Within a few years, the program and others like it were successfully establishing bison back into its native habitat. Bison now live in all 50 states in public and private herds, providing recreation opportunities for wildlife viewers in zoos, refuges and parks, and sustaining the multimillion dollar bison ranching and production business. The bill sponsors thanked the Vote Bison Coalition, which is led by steering committee members the Inter-Tribal Buffalo Council, National Bison Association and Wildlife Conservation Society, for their advocacy and support to make the bison the National Mammal. The coalition counts more than 50 businesses, tribal groups and organizations who have banded together to support efforts to celebrate bison. -###-
04.20.2016	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) joined a group of veteran members of Congress to introduce legislation that would help deported veterans to reunite with their families in the United States. The bill would also prevent the removal of service members and veterans in the future. Led by Congressman Representative Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Reps. Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Charles Rangel (D-NY) are also original co-sponsors of the legislation. The Restoring Respect for Immigrant Service in Uniform Act urges the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to use his powers under current law to readmit veterans into the United States who have been deported and who have not committed a serious crime. The bill also limits the current grounds of deportability to prevent the removal of a service member or veteran who has served at least 6 months in the military and who has not committed a serious crime. The full text of the bill can be found here. Rep. José E. Serrano said, “Immigrants, regardless of status, come to our nation because they believe in the ideals, values, and opportunities that exist here. Some feel so strongly about their adopted nation that they choose to serve in our armed forces, and we should honor and respect that service. This bill addresses the inconceivable situation that some veterans find themselves in after their service – deported and forced to separate from their families. That our country deports those who have defended our flag and lived up to our nation’s most important ideals tells you all you need to know about how broken our immigration system currently is. Our nation needs comprehensive immigration reform, but this is a common sense first step that no one should object to.” Rep. Ruben Gallego said, ““I fought in Iraq, and I know that on the battlefield what matters isn’t whether you have the right papers, it’s whether you have the right skills and the right character. Deportation is no way to thank the men and women who sacrificed so much to serve our country. Instead of separating these veterans from their families and the country they love and served, we should recognize the contributions they have made and can continue to make to the United States.” Rep. Ted Lieu said, “As an immigrant and a veteran who previously served on active duty, I believe there is perhaps no greater injustice in our immigration system than the deportation of veterans. Any immigrant, documented or otherwise, who puts their life on the line to serve the United States in uniform should be entitled to their VA benefits and a peaceful life in our great nation. It is incomprehensible that we treat some veterans more like criminals than heroes. The Restoring Respect for Immigrant Service in Uniform Act would help us correct the system to treat all veterans with the respect they have earned.” Rep. Charles Rangel said, “As a veteran, I know that one’s skin color or immigration status is the last thing that matters on the battlefield. We cannot turn our backs against our immigrant service members who fought to defend our freedoms. Yet despite their contributions, we have stripped them of the honor of serving in our nation’s armed services and taken them away from their families. I am proud to join my colleagues to help unite loved ones and pay respect to those who sacrificed on our behalf.” ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is one of only two Hispanic veterans in the House of Representatives, having served in the Army Medical Corps from 1964 until 1966.
04.19.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that a provision he inserted into the report accompanying the fiscal year 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations bill directs the Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy to offer technical and programmatic assistance to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Long an advocate for equal treatment under federal law for Puerto Rico, Congressman Serrano felt that more needed to be done to support investment to reduce power system emissions, efficiently treat wastewater, and generate power from solid waste. "While I am glad this report language will help Puerto Rico obtain both technical and programmatic assistance to support investment in innovative technologies for the energy and water sectors, I am disheartened that it continues to take Congressional action to ensure that Puerto Rico receives the attention it deserves from the federal government," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "The current fiscal crisis in Puerto Rico has prevented the island’s government from investing in innovative technologies that make its energy and water utility companies more efficient and cost-effective. I hope that through this language we are able to help the people of Puerto Rico access better services from their utility companies. The report language contained in the report accompanying the FY 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill is as follows: The Committee directs EERE to offer technical and other programmatic assistance to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to support investment in innovative technologies to effectively reduce power system emissions, efficiently treat wastewater, and generate power from solid waste. ###
04.12.2016	Washington, DC - Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY-15) and Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-7) commented on draft legislation released by the House Natural Resources Committee related to Puerto Rico. The following may be attributed to Serrano: “I want to thank the committee for incorporating many of the suggestions from our side of the aisle. I believe the revised draft of the bill is improved as a result. “However, I am still very troubled by some issues. Section 204 ultimately allows the board to exercise veto authority over legislation duly enacted by the Puerto Rican legislature and Governor. I believe this section undermines local democracy in Puerto Rico, and increases the colonial aspects of the current relationship. “Also, the bar to enter the restructuring process is too high and threatens to make it almost impossible for Puerto Rico to restructure any of its debt. Lastly, a couple of riders undermine some labor protections in the island. I will continue to work to improve these sections, and the bill as a whole.” The following may be attributed to Velázquez: “With regard to Titles I and II, which lay out the structure and powers of the Oversight Board, I am pleased that several of the most objectionable provisions have been taken out or softened. This is unambiguous progress. However, section 204 remains a concern in that it permits the Board to block laws, regulations, and contracts approved by Puerto Rico’s democratically-elected government. This is concerning and I hope that we can continue making progress in improving the bill. “In addition, I have serious concerns about the minimum wage provisions in Title IV (sections 403 and 404) in the bill and the message they send to Puerto Rico’s younger workers. Exempting the labor force from federal protections could spur further migration off of the island. “Further, Title IV also contains a provision (section 405) permitting the transfer of 3,100 acres of federal land to Puerto Rico. I believe that we need to incorporate protections to ensure that this land is not sold and used to make a ‘quick buck’ by private developers. “Finally, I am disappointed by the inclusion of several roadblocks to restructuring. Section 206(b) requires that five Board members vote for restructuring. Given that four Board members will be appointed by Republicans, there is significant reason to believe that restructuring authority will never be granted. This concern is compounded by section 601, a new provision, which adds a collective action clause to the bill. This clause requires two-thirds of creditors to voluntarily agree to restructure their debt, a hurdle that is not realistically achievable. “For this bill to be effective and garner my support, the restructuring tools must be accessible to the island. In the bill’s current form, restructuring remains outside of Puerto Rico’s reach. I will continue working with my colleagues to improve the bill with the hope of reaching an agreement that benefits Puerto Rico.” # # #
04.08.2016	Lawmakers Have Been Fighting to Address Puerto Rico’s Health Care Crisis, Including the Unfair Medicare Advantage Rates That Include Inadequate Payments to Individuals With Dual Eligibility After Lawmakers’ Push, CMS is Implementing New Formula That Will Increase Medicare Advantage Payment Rates for Low-Income Beneficiaries & Lead to An Expected Revenue Change of 1.25 Percent Schumer, Gillibrand, Serrano, Velazquez: These Are Significant Steps to Address the Unequal Healthcare Reimbursement for Puerto Rico, But More Must Be Done U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Representatives José E. Serrano and Nydia M. Velázquez today announced that, after their concerted and sustained push, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have made significant, positive changes in the 2017 Medicare Advantage and Part D program in Puerto Rico. Prior to this change, the Medicare Advantage payment rates and policies unfairly compensated Puerto Rico when compared to the states. The new rates and policies will benefit thousands of Puerto Rican residents and increase annual Medicare payments by more than $40 million. As a result, the expected revenue change for Medicare Advantage plans in Puerto Rico is 1.25 percent. The lawmakers said that if this change had not been made, the expected revenue change for Medicare Advantage plans in Puerto Rico could have decreased by 8.5 percent. “Residents of Puerto Rico are American citizens and deserve access to the same quality affordable health-care as in the states, but unfortunately they are burdened with unequal treatment and unfair rates,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. “I am pleased that CMS is moving in the right direction on this issue by making major changes to Puerto Rico’s Medicare Advantage program. These changes will increase payment rates for thousands of Medicare beneficiaries in Puerto Rico.” Schumer continued, “While these are good and significant first steps, there is still more to be done to end the unequal treatment and the healthcare crisis that plagues Puerto Rico. I will continue to fight hard in Congress with my colleagues like Representatives Nydia Velázquez and José Serrano to achieve fairness and equal treatment for Puerto Rico.” “Our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico are facing a health care crisis,” said U.S. Senator Gillibrand. “The changes announced by CMS to Puerto Rico’s Medicare Advantage program are a good first step to stabilizing Puerto Rico’s health care system and ensuring access to high-quality, affordable health care. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to address the remaining federal policies that continue to disadvantage Puerto Rico’s health care system and advocate for legislation to help put Puerto Rico on the path to recovery.” Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) said, “I was pleasantly surprised to see CMS take a step in the right direction. By setting rates and other policies strengthening the Medicare Advantage program in Puerto Rico, CMS has helped stabilize the island’s future. Still, much more must be done to address the crisis in Puerto Rico and I remain committed to that goal. I will continue working to bring fairness and equity to the 3.5 American citizens living in Puerto Rico.” “Puerto Rico’s economic crisis is having a dire impact on the health care system. These changes will provide much needed relief to thousands of Medicare participants, help expand access to health care, and provide a measure of stability to Puerto Rico’s health care system. Much more needs to be done, but this is an important step in the right direction,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “I and other Members of Congress have been fighting hard to stabilize and strengthen the Medicare Advantage program in Puerto Rico, which provides health insurance to nearly 570,000 seniors and disabled individuals on the island, including nearly 300,000 low-income seniors. The final payment rates for 2017 represent a hard-fought victory for MA beneficiaries in Puerto Rico. I want to thank my congressional colleagues for their tremendous teamwork on this issue over the years, and to express my gratitude to Secretary Burwell and her team at HHS and CMS for their personal attention to this important matter. Much work remains to be done to ensure that Puerto Rico is treated fairly under federal health programs, whether it be Medicaid, traditional Medicare or Medicare Advantage, but the rule is a real accomplishment that we should pause to reflect upon and appreciate,” said Pedro R. Pierluisi, Puerto Rico’s representative in Congress. Governor Alejandro J. García Padilla said, "I want to thank HHS Secretary Burwell for her engagement and willingness to help Puerto Rico, as well as the tireless advocacy of Senators Schumer, Gillibrand and Representatives Velazquez, Serrano, Gutierrez and Pierluisi. While this is a win for the almost 600,000 Medicare Advantage beneficiaries in the Commonwealth, we still have a long way to go to achieve parity in federal funding for Medicare and Medicaid, which we so desperately need to continue to provide care for the 3.5 million American citizens in Puerto Rico." "We appreciate the leadership of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell in obtaining important adjustments to the 2017 Medicare Advantage rates that provide Puerto Rico with much needed additional resources." said Dennis Rivera, President of the Puerto Rico Healthcare Crisis Coalition. "Senator Schumer, Congresswoman Pelosi and Resident Commissioner Pierluisi's advocacy were also key in our efforts to bring parity to Puerto Rico's federal healthcare programs." According to CMS, the Medicare Advantage program covers 567,000 beneficiaries in Puerto Rico. Approximately 277,000 beneficiaries – approximately 49 percent of all Medicare Advantage enrollees in Puerto Rico – are enrolled in Medicare Advantage Dual-Eligible Special Needs Plans. Approximately sixty percent of Puerto Rico’s population relies on either Medicare or Medicaid. For too long, some of the Medicare policies have proven either unfair or unworkable for Puerto Rico, such as money to help low income citizens afford medicines and Medicare Advantage rates. Moreover, Puerto Rico receives less federal funds for health care than any state. Schumer personally spoke with Secretary Burwell regarding this issue and pushed for changes to Puerto Rico’s Medicare Advantage plan. As a result, CMS will implement a number of changes in the 2017 Rate Announcement that will significantly benefit Medicare Advantage enrollees in Puerto Rico. Under the change, the expected revenue change for Medicare Advantage Plans in Puerto Rico is 1.25 percent, not accounting for the expected growth in coding acuity that has typically added another 5.1 percent. Overall, these changes mean that CMS will pay more for individuals with dual eligibility (those who are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid). The lawmakers explained that these individuals are often low-income. According to CMS, the changes include: First, CMS will implement a revised risk adjustment model that will increase the payments made to plans that enroll a large proportion of full benefit dually eligible enrollees. CMS uses the risk adjustment model to adjust payments to plans to reflect the relative health of their enrollees based on diagnostic, demographic, and other factors. Schumer had noted that the prior risk adjustment model failed to provide adequate compensate to dually eligible beneficiaries. The new model changes this by separating the benefits into three categories: full benefit dually eligible beneficiaries; partial benefit dually eligible beneficiaries; and non-dually eligible beneficiaries. Secondly, Congress passed a law last year that would increase the payments made to Puerto Rico hospitals for inpatient services under Medicare fee-for-service (FFS). According to CMS, this change would not be reflected until 2018 because of timing of the enactment. However, CMS will adjust the fee-for-service basis for 2017 Medicare Advantage payments to reflect the higher payments that will be made to Puerto Rico hospitals in 2016. Third, CMS will make changes to Medicare Advantage plans that achieve high Star Ratings, and are therefore eligible for Quality Bonus Payments. The current Part C and D Star Rating system is sensitive to the low income subsidy/dually eligible and disability status of a contract’s enrollees. CMS will implement an interim analytical adjustment to account for low income subsidy/dual eligible and/or disability status. The adjustment factor will vary by a contract’s proportion of low income subsidy/dually eligible and disability status beneficiaries. This interim adjustment should have an overall positive effect on Puerto Rico plans with high numbers of vulnerable enrollees. Fourth, Puerto Rican residents are ineligible for the low income subsidy, which provides cost-sharing and premium assistance to low income Part D enrollees. CMS is finalizing its proposal to estimate a low income subsidy indicator for Puerto Rico to be used in conjunction with the interim analytical adjustment. The low income subsidy indicator will identify beneficiaries in contracts operating solely in Puerto Rico whose incomes would result in a low income subsidy designation in the 50 states and DC. Stakeholders have suggested that the lack of the low income subsidy makes compliance with some measures – like medication adherence – more difficult. To address this difference in benefits, CMS will implement a differentiated weighting for the three medication adherence measures in the calculation of the overall and summary Star Ratings for contracts operating solely in Puerto Rico. Lastly, CMS will adjust the fee-for-service experience for beneficiaries enrolled in Puerto Rico to reflect the propensity of zero dollar claimants nationwide, rather than based off the propensity of zero dollar claimants solely in Puerto Rico. CMS sought public comment on this issue in the Advance Notice due to the larger proportion of FFS Medicare beneficiaries in Puerto Rico with no Medicare claim reimbursements and concerns that this was leading to lower Medicare Advantage Rates in Puerto Rico. This change resulted in an average increase in the standardized FFS costs in Puerto Rico of 4.4 percent for 2011 through 2013. Accordingly, a 4.4 percent adjustment was applied to the pre-standardized Puerto Rico FFS rates supporting the CY 2017 ratebook development. ###
04.07.2016	Washington, DC - Representatives Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-7) and José E. Serrano (D-NY-15) issued the following statement regarding news that the House Natural Resources Committee will convene a hearing next week on a discussion draft for Puerto Rico: “We appreciate that this process has been collaborative as changes are being made to the discussion draft. We hope progress continues as we work together toward a legislative package that truly addresses Puerto Rico’s problems. “Our goal remains a final bill giving the island the ability to chart a new course forward and providing oversight that respects Puerto Rico’s autonomy. “As this crisis continues unfolding with very real humanitarian effects on the people of Puerto Rico, we will continue pushing our colleagues to move quickly in developing effective legislation we can support.” # # #
03.29.2016	Washington, DC - Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY-15) and Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY-7) issued the following statement regarding the public release of legislation affecting Puerto Rico: “We thank Chairman Bishop for his efforts to draft legislation to address the financial crisis in Puerto Rico. We recognize this is a challenging process and that there are many stakeholders with different priorities. Our hope is that we can see our way through this and come together to give Puerto Rico a path forward. “While recognizing that the bill is a draft and will evolve over coming weeks, we have several immediate concerns. First and foremost is that the oversight board, as currently structured, undermines Puerto Rico’s rule of law. It would allow the board to declare Puerto Rico’s own laws ‘null and void,’ while also permitting the board to enact its own laws over the objections of the island’s government. Such powers do not provide oversight, but rather usurp the role of Puerto Rico’s own democratically-elected government. Vesting such power in the Board is, at best, troubling and, at worst, dangerous. Because of these concerns, we cannot support the legislation in its current form. “With regard to the design of the restructuring portion of the legislation, we believe it is promising, but are hopeful further refinements can be made. To this point, we have asked that future drafts be revised to prioritize retirees and ensure their benefits are paid. This change would provide assurance to the many working class Puerto Ricans who rely heavily on their government-provided pensions. “We look forward to working with Chairman Bishop as the process moves forward.” ###
02.29.2016	The Bronx –Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in commemoration of Black History Month, which honors the achievements and legacy of African-Americans in the United States. The statement follows Congressman and Senator Serrano’s annual Black History Month Celebration, held last week at Hostos Community College. CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano with Hostos Community College President Dr. David Gomez (02/22/2016). CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano with honoree Congressman Charles B. Rangel (NY-13). (02/22/2016) CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano with honoree and Civil Rights Pioneer Ms. Claudette Colvin. (02/22/2016) CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano with honoree Ms. Etta F. Ritter, Administrative Manager –Community Planning Board #3. (02/22/2016) CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano with honoree Rev. Frederick Crawford, Senior Pastor – Union Grove Missionary Baptist Church. CAPTION: (top, left to right) Rev. Michael Thomas, Deputy Bronx Borough President Aurelia Greene, City Councilmember Vanessa Gibson, NYS Senator José M. Serrano, Congressman José E. Serrano, Rev. Frederick Crawford, District Leader Cynthia Cox , NYS Assembly member Michael Blake, Gloria Davis, (bottom row, left to right) Ms. Claudette Colvin, Ms. Helen Foreman-Hines, Ms. Etta Ritter. (02/22/2016) “Black History Month serves as an opportunity to reflect on and honor the contributions that African-Americans have made to our country. It is during this month we celebrate the important contributions African-Americans have made in the arts, education, literature, music science, technology and civil rights. I am honored to represent a district in a state that has been the birthplace of many of our nation’s greatest Black leaders and the location of numerous key historical events. “This is why every year, I hold an event to recognize the achievements of several African-American leaders who are from the Bronx and New York City. This year, I had the great honor of recognizing Reverend Frederick Crawford, Claudette Clovin, Etta Ritter, and my dear friend and colleague, the Honorable Congressman Charles B. Rangel. Each of these individuals has tirelessly fought to ensure that justice and civil rights are upheld for everyone within our community and the rest of the nation. I honored their leadership, commitment to social justice, and dedication to public service. Our country is a better place because of their contributions to government, civil rights, and community service. Their accomplishments are an inspiration to us all, and we thank them for their service. “As we commemorate the richness of our nation’s history through Black History Month, let us also remember the sacrifices that were made during the Civil Rights movement. Our nation has made great strides to become a more just and equal society since then, and African-Americans’ achievements are a testament to how our country has evolved for the better, but there is still more work to be done. Let us follow our greatest Black leaders’ examples of courage, persistence, and humility to end ongoing oppression, racism, and injustice in our communities. May we also follow their example by practicing the tenets of tolerance, peace, equality and brotherhood each and every day of the year.” “During this month's black history celebration, it was my privilege to honor some truly extraordinary individuals for their contributions to society. These remarkable citizens are the bedrock of our community and true trailblazers. Their contributions are felt on a daily basis and should not be limited to being celebrated and acknowledged just once a year. Many thanks to all of our amazing honorees for their dedication to service and unwavering commitment to bettering the world around them." ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
02.22.2016	New York City, NY – Today, Congressman Serrano was the keynote speaker at a conference entitled “Leveraging Tax Time to Build Financial Capability: Research Evidence and Policy Directions,” convened by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund, Inc., New America, Center for Social Development, JP Morgan Chase & Co. and Intuit Tax & Financial Center. Congressman Serrano spoke about legislation he has introduced, the Financial Security Credit Act, to encourage savings at tax time through the federal tax code. “Far too many families live paycheck to paycheck and lack the necessary savings to meet short term and long-term financial needs," said Congressman Serrano. “At any given moment they could face financial disaster and unfortunately this reality has only gotten worse with the financial crisis. Tax season serves as a good opportunity for working families to build savings by setting aside a portion of their tax refund. That is precisely what my bill seeks to disincentivize working families to save a portion of their tax refund, and to hopefully maintain and invest those savings. If they do so, then they will also be able to multiply the amount of their saving immediately by receiving a tax credit of up to $500 that would be directly deposited in their account – allowing them to save even more. This program has already been a success in a number of cities, including New York City. As tax season approaches, we should work to make it a reality nationwide.” CAPTION: Congressman Serrano gives the keynote speech at a conference entitled “Leveraging Tax Time to Build Financial Capability: Research Evidence and Policy Directions,” convened by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund, Inc., New America, Center for Social Development, JP Morgan Chase & Co. and Intuit Tax & Financial Center. (2/22/2015) About the Financial Security Credit Act Recent studies have shown that two thirds of Americans do not have savings to cover a $500 emergency, and one third have no savings at all. Under the legislation, if an individual is unbanked or does not have an eligible savings option, then they are provided with the opportunity to establish an account on their tax form. Individuals can contribute to any of a number of savings options, including: basic savings accounts, 529 College Savings Accounts, Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, qualified retirement plans like 401(k) and IRAs, certificates of deposit, and savings bonds. If the individual maintains that savings for 8 months, then they receive a tax credit of up to $500 also deposited into the account. This legislation builds on the successful SaveUSA program model, which was initiated in New York City, and has expanded to San Antonio, Tulsa, and Newark, NJ through the Social Innovation Fund. These programs show that tax-filers, despite low incomes, can and will save if they have the right incentive at the right moment. Despite having average incomes of less than $18,000, program participants in New York City were able to save an average of about $550. In New York City, about 76 percent of savers held their balance for the full year, and nearly 47 percent returned to save the following year. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York, in Congress since 1990.
02.09.2016	Rep Serrano: “President’s bold and forward-looking balanced proposal is focused on growing economy and expanding opportunity for everyone.” Washington, DC - Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget proposal: “President Obama has presented Congress once again with a bold, forward-looking balanced proposal focused on growing our economy and expanding opportunity for everyone – not just a few big-money special interests. As we continue moving forward in the path of economic recovery, the President wants to make sure we invest in three key areas to our shared prosperity: innovation, world-class education, and respect for the needs of working families. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, I am glad to see that his plan includes increased funding for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which provides important economic development assistance in underserved areas like the Bronx, the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is our cop on the beat for Wall Street, and for the Internal Revenue Service, which has been hamstrung by a limited budget. I also applaud the President’s efforts within the Treasury Department to create a Financial Innovation for Working Families Fund within the Department of the Treasury, which will help working families to build savings for the future. As the author of H.R. 4236, the Financial Security Credit Act, I believe that building savings and wealth for individuals and families is crucial to economic mobility and financial stability, and I am glad to see it getting attention from the Treasury Department. “As the most senior Puerto Rican member of Congress, I am very pleased that the President included language calling for the island to be able to ‘restructure its financial liabilities in a fair and orderly manner under the supervision of a Federal court’ and have access to a more fair treatment under federal health care and tax credit programs to help it face the ongoing economic crisis. “As a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, I am pleased that within the Department of Justice, there are significant new resources devoted to criminal justice reform and reducing recidivism, as well as to improving trust between local law enforcement and the communities they serve. I also am gratified to see a significant increase proposed for the Legal Services Corporation, which provides equal access to justice for all Americans, regardless of income. I strongly support the President’s proposal to provide NASA with robust funding to support space exploration, develop new space technologies, and assist NASA’s research efforts to dramatically reduce fuel consumption, emissions, and noise in aircraft. Finally, I am pleased by the President’s continued investments in understanding the complexity of the human brain, STEM research, clean energy, and cutting-edge manufacturing under the capable leadership of the National Science Foundation. “As a member of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I am particularly pleased that the President included robust funding to help address the spread of the Zika virus in the Americas, as well as robust funding for our global health and humanitarian aid programs. By providing adequate funding for initiatives such as Power Africa and Feed the Future, the United States will be able to continue improving the lives of millions of people around the world. By reiterating its commitment to provide financial aid to Central American countries, the United States can help them address economic, governance, and security challenges. “Republicans in contrast continue to insist on a narrow, special-interests-first agenda that undermine working families and abandons seniors. It is particularly troubling that the Republican Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees have refused to allow the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to present the President’s budget request before Congress. “Through this budget, we not only energize our economy, we also protect our national security and support America’s continued leadership. I look forward to discussing the President’s proposal in detail with my colleagues during this year’s Appropriations process and I will stand with my House Democratic colleagues in support of a budget that guarantees America’s future economic prosperity and expands economic opportunity for all
02.04.2016	Funding in omnibus will create help desks at nation’s most backlogged immigration courts WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives José Serrano (NY-15) and Mike Quigley (IL-05), members of the House Appropriations Committee, announced the inclusion of $1 million in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act signed by President Obama for the creation of information help desks at the nation’s most backlogged immigration courts. They also sent a letter yesterday to the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) emphasizing specific characteristics that are essential to effective help desks – protecting due process and improving efficiency of immigration proceedings. “Many immigration courts around the nation are overwhelmed by a high volume of immigration cases and lack the resources to help immigrant families and process cases in a timely manner. Far too often, immigrants are left to face an unfamiliar immigration court system without legal counsel to guide them and advise them,” said Rep. Serrano. “ Allocating funding for the creation of immigration help desks will help America’s busiest immigrant courts to become fairer and more efficient by providing immigrants with confidential screenings and refer them to legal resources if need be. As one of cities with the highest backlog of immigration cases, the New York City immigration court will benefit greatly from this initiative. This is the first time that funding has been allocated for this initiative in an Appropriations bill; I am incredibly proud of having worked with Representative Quigley to guarantee its successful inclusion in the final bill as members of the Appropriations Committee.” “Having worked as a defense attorney for over a decade, I am well aware of the complexities and inefficiencies of America’s legal system, especially throughout our immigration courts. The immigration help desk in Chicago has proven very effective and helpful at increasing efficiency and ensuring due process,” said Rep. Quigley. “I’m hopeful that this first ever, dedicated federal funding for immigration help desks across the country will greatly and positively impact the lives of many immigrants and their families – making the system easier to navigate and ensuring respondents are informed on possible remedies and legal resources.” This is the first time that dedicated funding has been appropriated for immigration help desks. The EOIR faces many obstacles to providing timely immigration hearings while affording due process in an overwhelmed court system. Reps. Quigley and Serrano are hopeful that the creation of information help desks, which have already proven beneficial outside of the immigration court system, will assist in these efforts by providing time-sensitive information and legal screenings to pro se respondents on the day of their immigration court hearing. The purpose of the desks are two-fold: first, to improve efficiency for the court by reducing the time immigration judges spend orienting a respondent on the court hearing process, and second, to ensure respondents are informed on possible remedies and legal resources. To read the full letter from Reps. Quigley and Serrano, click here. “We have seen firsthand the value of providing information and screenings to individuals appearing in immigration court without an attorney. Help desks promote efficiency in our backlogged immigration courts and help ensure due process for immigrants facing removal proceedings – they benefit us all,” said Mary Meg McCarthy, Executive Director of the National Immigrant Justice Center (NIJC). Throughout his career, Rep. Serrano has prioritized helping immigrant families and fixing our nation’s broken immigration system. One issue Rep. Serrano has focused on is preventing U.S. citizen children from losing their parents to deportation. To further this goal, Rep. Serrano is the author of the Child Citizen Protection Act, which would help to keep the families of US citizen children together. In 2009, he also commissioned and released a study showing that the Department of Homeland Security had deported more than 100,000 parents of U.S. citizen children. Last year, he was recognized by a coalition of ten national Latino and Asian American/Pacific Islander (AAPI) advocacy groups for his 2014 voting record in the House of Representatives, which gave him a perfect score in the new “National Immigration Scorecard”. Rep. Serrano also received a perfect score for his unwavering support of passing comprehensive immigration reform and his vote in favor of key legislative measures related to immigration during the 113th Congress. In 2012, he joined 16 members of Congress in calling for justice in the tragic case of Anastasio Hernandez-Rojas and reiterated the need for tougher oversight of Border Patrol personnel to end the abuse of people in the agency’s custody. Rep. Quigley has been a staunch advocate of comprehensive immigration reform throughout his time in Congress and has pushed Congress to pass a pathway to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants. Most recently, Rep. Quigley offered an amendment to the fiscal year 2016 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would prohibit the detention of immigrant children and families in our nation’s immigration detention centers, saving over $345 million in taxpayer dollars from family detention and reinvesting that money into more humane and cost-effective Alternatives to Detention. He joined a Congressional Equality Caucus roundtable discussion with undocumented LGBT advocates to emphasize the importance of including the LGBT immigrant community in the president’s executive actions on immigration. He used his position on the House Appropriations Committee to highlight the need for Congress to protect undocumented immigrants from abuse in detention centers, reject unconstitutional Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers and end a mandated detention bed quota that wastes millions of dollars annually. Quigley also led a letter last summer urging the president to take executive action to enact more human immigration deportation and detention policies. ###
01.21.2016	Conference on Civil and Human Rights Gives Serrano Perfect Score for Voting Record in the 1st Session of the 114th Congress Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he had earned a perfect score (100%) on the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights congressional scores for the first session of the 114th Congress. Overall, only 32 percent of Congress supported the Leadership Conference’s priorities more than 90 percent of the time. The Leadership Conference graded and scored members of Congress’ voting record taken from January through December 2015 on key legislation related to, among other issues, the protection of civil rights, equal pay, sexual assault in the military, education, voting rights, immigration, health care, and minimum wage. “Throughout my career, I have always made it a priority fighting for justice and equality under the law, and to improve opportunities for all Americans. The Leadership Conference’s scorecard is a reflection of my commitment to be a voice for and defend the rights of those who oftentimes are simply ignored. In recent decades we have made significant progress in the area of civil and human rights, but more needs to be done. It is an honor to be recognized by The Leadership Conference with a perfect score and I look forward to working with them in the future on these important issues,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
01.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “Last night, President Obama laid out his vision for an America that builds on the progress we have made in the last seven years by relying on the ingenuity and sense of possibility inherent in the American spirit. At a time of extraordinary change that is reshaping every aspect of our life, the President emphasized the importance of leaving behind the stale dogmas of the past that won’t provide us with the innovative solutions we need to create the future we want for our children. I was particularly glad to hear him address how we can continue growing our economy in this time of change to raise the standard of living and give everyone a fair shot at opportunity and security in a new economy. I was also pleased to see his focus on fixing our electoral and campaign finance systems- which will improve our democracy and make it more responsive to all Americans. “Although not specifically mentioned in the speech, I believe that an important element of the Administration’s last year in office is finding solutions to help Puerto Rico address its economic crisis. I will continue to work with the President, Congress, and stakeholders to do just that. “The President’s discussion of America's role in the world was also an important one. As the strongest nation in the world, America must continue leading in the 21st Century by remaining engaged, generating support to address the most pressing issues that affect the global community, and encouraging others to move towards greater human progress. At a time when we face increasingly complex and challenging issues, America must not isolate itself or resort to using military force to address every crisis. I look forward to continuing to help the Administration update our nation’s policy towards Cuba and fix our broken immigration system. We will only be successful in this endeavor if we rise above fear and cynicism to work together and are willing to have rational, constructive conversations with each other.” ###
01.08.2016	Washington, DC – January 8, 2016 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano spoke out against the ongoing raids by the Department of Homeland Security to detain and deport families who fled violence in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador. Serrano took part in a press conference hosted by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) earlier today calling for an immediate end to the raids. “Today, I stood with my CHC colleagues in calling on the President to end the harmful and hurtful raids by the Department of Homeland Security,” said Congressman Serrano. “I am deeply disturbed that ICE is choosing to once again tear families apart, something that happens far too often in our broken immigration system. Many of the families affected by these new efforts actually came to our country seeking refuge from danger and violence in their home countries. Our nation should not undermine its own values by attempting to send them back to these dangerous situations. We in Congress must work to find solutions to address these issues- the most important of which is comprehensive immigration reform. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.22.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano wrote to Julián Castro, the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, in support of testing changes to the calculation of Area Median Income (AMI) in the New York region. The current calculation for New York City includes the New York metro region, and artificially raises the median income used to calculate 'affordable ' housing in the Bronx. As a result, many Bronxites and New Yorkers are unable to afford housing that is categorized as affordable. The text of the letter is below: *** December 18, 2015 The Honorable Julián Castro Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Castro, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for all of your work as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), to urge you to take action to address a pressing housing issue in New York City, and to meet with me on the same. Current calculations of Area Median Income (AMI) for New York City, and my home borough of the Bronx, do not accurately reflect local conditions on the ground, where median incomes are significantly lower than the regional average. I believe it is time to start testing an alternative methodology, and that New York is the perfect place to start these efforts. New York City is in the midst of an affordable housing crisis, and the City has made several proposals to increase housing throughout the five boroughs. With plans to create about 200,000 affordable units over a period of ten years, this has put a heavy strain on many communities throughout New York City. However, as we discuss ways to ensure that housing remains affordable for current residents of the Bronx and elsewhere, we have repeatedly encountered a problem with the way that Area Median Income is calculated, allowing new developments and renovated developments to charge significantly more that the median income of the local community. This prevents newly ‘affordable’ housing from actually being affordable for those who live in the community. For instance, an overwhelming majority of my constituents do not make the calculated 2015 AMI for the New York City region of $86,300 for a family of four. And it is not even close. There is a median income of $34,388 for a family in the Bronx, according the U.S. Census bureau. With a poverty level of almost 30%, many of my constituents are struggling to pay rent, amongst other things. Under the new housing plans for New York City, which are based on the current regional AMI, many of the people who are living here will be displaced. I understand that HUD is currently working on pilot programs to explore different ways to more accurately measure the metrics involved in calculating other regional measurements, like Fair Market Rent (FMR). I believe it is time to expand these tests to AMI. As I understand it, the Long Island and Westchester areas are included in the regional New York formula to calculate the area median income that is currently used by HUD. Whether it is a measure of sub-metropolitan or by county in different cities, it is time to assess the impact of more accurate AMI measurements in New York City. I believe this is of crucial importance to the future of our city and our nation. The Bronx is considered to be the most diverse county in the U.S. according to the U.S. Census. HUD’s help is necessary to help preserve this diversity. During your tenure as Mayor of San Antonio, you were known as a national leader of urban investment, and I am heartened by your efforts as Secretary to date. I believe your goal “of giving every person, regardless of their station in life, new opportunities to thrive,” is an important one, and I believe that testing changes to AMI is an important step in that direction. The Bronx has been a champion for finding new opportunities, and I hope that we can work together we to ensure that this issue is addressed in a way that benefits the Bronx and our nation as a whole. Thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.16.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the provisions related to Puerto Rico included in the Omnibus bill released last night: “I am extremely disappointed that Republicans have rejected our efforts to comprehensively address Puerto Rico's fiscal crisis. While the provisions included in the Financial Services section of the bill will help address some of the many problems and disparities affecting Puerto Rico’s economy, they are not nearly enough to help the island face its economic crisis in the short and long term. "Unfortunately, this is business as usual when it comes to Puerto Rico. The island is too often ignored by Republicans in Congress- even in times of crisis. "Millions of American citizens in Puerto Rico are suffering the effects of an economic situation that will only get worse if Congress doesn’t take action now. The government of Puerto Rico will likely default on its debt in the coming months and will not able to provide its residents with essential services. Congress has a duty to take more forceful action, including at the very least, allowing Puerto Rico to restructure its debt and providing more equitable treatment under federal programs and the tax code. My colleagues and I are not asking Congress to do anything they would not do for other parts of the U.S. We are only asking them to do what is only fair for millions of U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico. "I am thankful that Democrats fought hard to provide comprehensive assistance and fairness for Puerto Rico in the Omnibus, and I would especially single out the efforts of Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez, Congressman Pedro Pierluisi, and Congressman Luis Gutiérrez. I also want to thank all the elected officials and advocates who worked tirelessly to help Puerto Rico in the Omnibus. To them I say that the fight is not over, and we will continue to work to ensure fairness for Puerto Rico. "Lastly, I believe that this is not just an issue of political will or economic crisis. This situation, both on the island and in Congress, highlight the need to change Puerto Rico's political status. The current colonial arrangement is, I believe, at the heart of the fiscal crisis on the island. Colonialism is what leads Puerto Rico to be treated inequitably under many federal programs. Colonialism is what leads its plight to be ignored in Congress. And colonialism will ensure that this situation will continue to repeat itself over and over again. While we will continue to debate and discuss the challenges facing Puerto Rico in Congress, the result of the current discussions are clear- the status must change. "This fight has united the Puerto Rican Diaspora like never before. These efforts will be long remembered by millions of Puerto Ricans in Florida, New York, and elsewhere." ###
12.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today introduced the “Financial Security Credit Act of 2015,” legislation to encourage a higher household savings rate nationwide by incentivizing savings by low- and moderate-income earners at tax time. “We must address what is a daily crisis for too many families- the lack of savings to meet short term and long-term financial needs," said Congressman Serrano. "Far too many Americans are living on the edge of financial disaster, and just the slightest emergency can tip them over the edge. This bill will help address these problems by incentivizing working families to save a portion of their tax refund, and to hopefully maintain that savings. If they are able to do so, then that the taxpayer will become eligible for a refundable tax credit of up to $500 directly deposited into their account. It has been proven to work in New York City, San Antonio, and elsewhere, and I believe it is time to expand upon this idea.” “Living paycheck to paycheck, without meaningful savings, is essentially the 'new normal' for most Americans,” said Reid Cramer, director of the Asset Building Program at New America. “Our current approach of heavily subsidizing retirement savings for upper income Americans and ignoring other Americans and other needs is obviously not working. The Financial Security Credit would give striving families the option to build a personal savings firewall, invest in educational opportunity for their children, or save for retirement. We should trust ordinary, hard-working families to make the best choice for themselves. Representative Serrano deserves credit for promoting legislation that supports savings, responsible financial behavior, and greater economic opportunity.” “Nearly half of all Americans have too little accessible savings to subsist even at the poverty level for three months in the event of an emergency,” said Andrea Levere, President of the Corporation for Enterprise Development. “With millions of families so near the brink of serious financial hardship, Representative Serrano’s effort to boost emergency savings for low- and moderate-income Americans is of national importance.” More than 43% of American households lack the savings to cover basic living expenses for three months if a layoff or other emergency causes a loss of their income. Without such a safety net, during financial emergencies many families are forced to rely on bad options such as expensive credit cards and exploitative payday loans. Under the legislation, if an individual is unbanked or does not have an eligible savings option, then they are provided with the opportunity to establish an account on their tax form. Individuals can contribute to any of a number of savings options, including: basic savings accounts, 529 College Savings Accounts, Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, qualified retirement plans like 401(k) and IRAs, certificates of deposit, and savings bonds. This legislation builds on the successful SaveUSA program model, which was initiated in New York City, and has expanded to San Antonio, Tulsa, and Newark, NJ through the Social Innovation Fund. These programs show that tax-filers, despite low incomes, can and will save if they have the right incentive at the right moment. Despite having average incomes of less than $18,000, program participants in New York City were able to save an average of about $550. In New York City, about 76 percent of savers held their balance for the full year, and nearly 47 percent returned to save the following year. “Building savings is crucial to developing financial stability and economic mobility,” concluded Congressman Serrano. “This legislation builds upon the important work of the New America Foundation, the Corporation for Enterprise Development and others, who have shown that we must do more for working families to help them protect against emergency, and to build for the future. The Financial Security Credit Act will help families do just that. ” ###
12.04.2015	Please note: Spanish release below English release/Comunicado de Prensa en Español debajo de la version en Inglés Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano—along with 53 members of the House of Representatives—today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry urging him to support the creation of a UN-sponsored commission to reduce impunity and corruption in Honduras. The proposed International Commission against Impunity in Honduras, modeled on the successful International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala, would bring an international, independent team of prosecutors and investigators to help root out corruption and reduce impunity. The initiative is supported by an overwhelming number of Hondurans and a broad range of civil society organizations. For years, Honduras has been plagued by extreme levels of violence that have driven thousands to flee to the U.S. and by rampant corruption by political parties, business people, and government officials. An independent, internationally-backed commission will help restore justice and Honduran’s faith in their government. “This is a key issue to the future of Honduras,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “We cannot expect to fully address issues of violence and instability in Honduras when people do not feel as though they can trust their government or judicial system. It is time to establish an independent commission to root out corruption and restore trust.” “The scale of the problem cannot be understated. There have been serious allegations of corruption involving political parties, business people, and government officials. However, the Honduran government has failed to investigate adequately and lacks the independence necessary to address the severity of the issues. For that reason, hundreds of thousands of Hondurans from every walk of life have protested to demand justice. A central demand of this movement—backed by a broad range of civil society organizations—is for Honduras to establish an independent, UN-sponsored International Commission against Impunity in Honduras (CICIH), modeled on the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG, in Spanish). The goal of the commission is to bring an international, independent team of prosecutors and investigators to help root out corruption and reduce impunity. We believe this is the only way to ensure justice and the rule of law in Honduras,” the letter says. The letter was signed by Representatives Kaptur, Ruppersberger, Hank Johnson, Speier, Schakowsky, Rangel, DeFazio, Slaughter, Lofgren, Conyers, DeLauro, McDermott, Capuano, Gutiérrez, Lowenthal, Honda, Grijalva, Ellison, Nolan, Pocan, Loretta Sanchez, Huffman, David Price, Rush, Moore, Waters, McCollum, Hastings, Tonko, Cárdenas, Edwards, Schrader, Lynch, Danny Davis, Norton, Quigley, Keating, Matsui, Bonamici, Garamendi, DeSaulnier, Chu, Bass, Pingree, Becerra, Yarmuth, Susan Davis, Kind, Cleaver, Clay, Cartwright, Lieu, BordalloFULL TEXT OF THE LETTER: Dear Secretary Kerry: We write to express our concern regarding the deteriorating situation of human rights and the rule of law in Honduras, and to urge you to support the establishment of an International Commission against Impunity in Honduras, modeled on the existing International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala. As you know, for a number of years now Honduras has been plagued by extreme levels of violence—which has driven thousands of Hondurans to flee to the United States—and by rampant corruption. As the Inter-American Human Rights Commission and human rights monitoring groups have noted, most of these crimes go unprosecuted and unpunished. Importantly, the Honduran judiciary lacks much needed independence from other branches of government. The scale of the problem cannot be understated. There have been serious allegations of corruption involving political parties, business people, and government officials. However, the Honduran government has failed to investigate adequately and lacks the independence necessary to address the severity of the issues. For that reason, hundreds of thousands of Hondurans from every walk of life have protested to demand justice. A central demand of this movement—backed by a broad range of civil society organizations—is for Honduras to establish an independent, UN-sponsored International Commission against Impunity in Honduras (CICIH), modeled on the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG, in Spanish). The goal of the commission is to bring an international, independent team of prosecutors and investigators to help root out corruption and reduce impunity. We believe this is the only way to ensure justice and the rule of law in Honduras. This model has been very successful in Guatemala. The International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala has brought to justice corrupt senior government officials and organized crime figures, while at the same time helping Guatemala develop more independent and professional judicial institutions. The CICIG, working in close coordination with the Public Prosecutor’s Office, has established a strong track record of investigating and prosecuting corrupt officials in a timely manner. Early accomplishments included forcing the removal of a corrupt Attorney General only days after his appointment in 2010. In April of this year, the CICIG uncovered a corruption network called “La Linea” that stretched to the highest levels of the Guatemalan government. Following these revelations, massive protests took place, leading to the eventual resignation and arrest of then-president Otto Pérez Molina. An overwhelming number of Hondurans are supportive of an International Commission against Impunity in Honduras (or CICIH), functioning independently under U.N. auspices. For a relatively modest sum—in comparison to the enormous economic and social cost of ongoing impunity—a CICIH can help strengthen the rule of law in Honduras, and give the Honduran people a measure of hope that the situation will not continue to deteriorate. We encourage you to support the establishment of a CICIH and invest in its future success, just as the U.S. has done elsewhere. We strongly believe that an independent, internationally-backed commission will help ensure justice and restore Hondurans’ faith in their government. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990, and is a Member of the State & Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee. The Bronx is also home to one of the largest populations of Honduran-Americans in the United States. CONGRESISTA SERRANO Y 53 REPRESENTANTES EXIGEN LA CREACIÓN DE COMISIÓN AUSPICIADA POR LA ONU PARA COMBATIR LA IMPUNIDAD Y CORRUPCIÓN EN HONDURAS Washington, DC – El Congresista José E. Serrano—junto a 53 miembros de la Cámara de Representantes—enviaron hoy una carta al Secretario de Estado John Kerry exigiéndole que apoye la creación de una comisión auspiciada por la ONU para reducir la impunidad y corrupción en Honduras. La propuesta Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Honduras (CICIH), basada en el modelo de la Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG), traería un equipo internacional e independiente de fiscales e investigadores para ayudar a erradicar la corrupción y a reducir la impunidad. Un número abrumador de hondureños y una amplia gama de organizaciones de la sociedad civil apoya esta iniciativa. Desde hace varios años, Honduras ha estado plagada por niveles extremos de violencia—lo que ha provocado la fuga de miles de hondureños a los Estados Unidos—y por una situación de corrupción rampante involucrando a partidos políticos, empresarios y funcionarios gubernamentales. Una comisión independiente y respaldada internacionalmente ayudará a consolidar la justicia y a restablecer la confianza de los hondureños en su gobierno. “Este es un asunto clave para el futuro de Honduras”, dijo el Congresista José E. Serrano. “No podemos esperar resolver los problemas de violencia e inestabilidad en Honduras cuando el pueblo no siente que puede confiar en su gobierno o en el sistema judicial. Es hora de crear una comisión independiente para acabar con la corrupción y restablecer la confianza”. “La dimensión del problema no puede ser subestimada. Ha habido acusaciones graves de corrupción, involucrando a partidos políticos, empresarios y funcionarios gubernamentales. Sin embargo, el gobierno de Honduras no investiga de manera adecuada y carece de suficiente independencia para abordar la gravedad de estas cuestiones. Por esta razón, cientos de miles de hondureños de todos los sectores han protestado para exigir justicia. Una demanda principal de este movimiento—apoyada por una amplia gama de organizaciones de la sociedad civil—es que Honduras establezca una Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Honduras (CICIH), auspiciada por la ONU y basada en el modelo de la Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG). El objetivo de la comisión es llevar un equipo internacional e independiente de fiscales e investigadores para ayudar a erradicar la corrupción y a reducir la impunidad. Creemos que eso es la única manera de asegurar que haya justicia y estado de derecho en Honduras”, dice la carta. La carta fue firmada por los Representantes Kaptur, Ruppersberger, Hank Johnson, Speier, Schakowsky, Rangel, DeFazio, Slaughter, Lofgren, Conyers, DeLauro, McDermott, Capuano, Gutiérrez, Lowenthal, Honda, Grijalva, Ellison, Nolan, Pocan, Loretta Sanchez, Huffman, David Price, Rush, Moore, Waters, McCollum, Hastings, Tonko, Cárdenas, Edwards, Schrader, Lynch, Danny Davis, Norton, Quigley, Keating, Matsui, Bonamici, Garamendi, DeSaulnier, Chu, Bass, Pingree, Becerra, Yarmuth, Susan Davis, Kind, Cleaver, Clay, Cartwright, Lieu, Bordallo TEXTO COMPLETO DE LA CARTA: 3 de diciembre de 2015 Estimado Secretario Kerry: Le escribimos para expresar nuestra preocupación acerca de la situación cada vez más deteriorada de los derechos humanos y del estado de derecho en Honduras, y le pedimos apoyar el establecimiento de una Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Honduras, siguiendo el modelo de la ya existente Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala. Como usted ya sabe, desde hace varios años Honduras ha estado plagada por niveles extremos de violencia—lo que ha provocado la fuga de miles de hondureños a los Estados Unidos—y por una situación de corrupción rampante. Como la Comisión Interamericana de Derechos Humanos y grupos de monitoreo de los derechos humanos han notado, la mayoría de los crímenes se quedan sin juicios e impunes. Cabe destacar que el sistema judicial hondureño carece de la independencia necesaria ante los otros poderes del gobierno. La dimensión del problema no puede ser subestimada. Ha habido acusaciones graves de corrupción involucrando a partidos políticos, empresarios y funcionarios gubernamentales. Sin embargo, el gobierno de Honduras no investiga de manera adecuada y carece de suficiente independencia para abordar la gravedad de estas cuestiones. Por esta razón, cientos de miles de hondureños de todos los sectores han protestado para exigir justicia. Una demanda principal de este movimiento—apoyada por una amplia gama de organizaciones de la sociedad civil—es que Honduras establezca una Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Honduras (CICIH), auspiciada por la ONU y basada en el modelo de la Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG). El objetivo de la comisión es llevar un equipo internacional e independiente de fiscales e investigadores para ayudar a erradicar la corrupción y a reducir la impunidad. Creemos que es la única manera de asegurar que haya justicia y estado de derecho en Honduras. Este modelo ha tenido mucho éxito en Guatemala. La Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala ha llevado ante la justicia a altos funcionarios gubernamentales y miembros del crimen organizado, mientras también ayuda a Guatemala a desarrollar instituciones judiciales más independientes y profesionales. La CICIG, trabajando en estrecha coordinación con el Ministerio Público, tiene un historial sólido de investigaciones y enjuiciamientos de funcionarios corruptos en un periodo de tiempo razonable. Los primeros logros incluyeron impulsar la remoción del Fiscal del Ministerio Público días después de su nombramiento en 2010 por actos de corrupción. En abril de este año, la CICIG descubrió una red de corrupción llamada “La Línea” que se extendió hasta los niveles más altos del gobierno de Guatemala. Después de esas revelaciones, hubo protestas masivas que llevaron a la eventual renuncia y el arresto del entonces presidente Otto Pérez Molina. Un número abrumador de hondureños apoyan la creación de una Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Honduras (o CICIH), que funcione independientemente bajo los auspicios de la ONU. Por una cantidad de dinero modesta—en comparación al enorme costo económico y social de la impunidad persistente—una CICIH podría fortalecer el estado de derecho en Honduras y ofrecer al pueblo hondureño una dosis de esperanza de que la situación no seguirá deteriorándose. Le alentamos a apoyar el establecimiento de una CICIH e invertir en su éxito futuro, como los Estados Unidos han hecho en otras partes. Creemos firmemente que una comisión independiente y respaldada internacionalmente ayudará a consolidar la justicia y restablecer la confianza de los hondureños en su gobierno. Agradecemos su atención a este asunto importante. Sinceramente, ### El Congresista José E. Serrano ha representado a El Bronx en el Congreso de los Estados Unidos de América desde el 1990 y es un miembro del Subcomité de Estado y Operaciones Extranjeras del Comité de Asignaciones. El Bronx es el lugar de residencia para una de las poblaciones más grandes de Hondureños-Americanos en EE.UU.
12.02.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – On December 1, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Intelligence Authorization agreement, legislation that funds the nation’s intelligence programs. The agreement includes a bipartisan provision authored by Reps. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, José E. Serrano (D-the Bronx), and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) to provide national security training grants to Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) of higher education to prepare students for careers in national security. The bill will now head to the President’s desk for his signature. The Crowley-Serrano-Curbelo provision allows the Director of National Intelligence to provide grants to HSIs to offer advanced foreign language education and study abroad and cultural immersion programs to increase diversity in the national security and intelligence community. The goal is to prepare America’s fastest-growing minority for careers in national security. “National security and intelligence are fast-growing fields that will require a steady stream of talented professionals in the coming years. These training grants will help ensure Hispanic students have the opportunities to explore careers in these critical fields, better prepare them for jobs of tomorrow, and ensure that our intelligence community accurately reflects the diversity of the American people. I’m proud to work with Congressmen Serrano and Curbelo in leading this provision that will go a long way in opening doors of opportunity for Hispanic students,” said Crowley. “As the number of job opportunities and importance of the national security and intelligence fields increases, Hispanics and other minorities must be prepared to compete for these opportunities. Too often, Hispanics don’t pursue these types of opportunities, not for lack of interest, but rather because they don’t have the preparation and support to do so. This amendment, which is now part of the final bill, will help close this gap by facilitating Hispanics’ access to a strong education in national security matters. Ensuring increased diversity in these fields will help make America stronger and more secure,” said Serrano. “This amendment will allow Hispanic-serving institutions of higher education to receive grants for foreign language programs that are vital to our intelligence community. Students will have the opportunity to serve their country while gaining first-hand insight into the cultures they are studying. I am proud to join my colleagues from New York in supporting this amendment which will directly benefit several institutions in Florida’s 26th district, including Miami-Dade College and FIU,” said Curbelo. “The Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU) offers its sincerest appreciation to Congressman Joseph Crowley for introducing the original amendment to the FY2016 Intelligence Authorization Act and to Congressmen José Serrano and Carlos Curbelo for helping to shepherd this important authorization for the development of new training grants for Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs). The grants will help HSIs to offer advanced foreign language education and study abroad, as well as cultural immersion programs for the over three million students they serve,” said Dr. Antonio Flores, President and CEO of HACU. “The 409 HSIs are highly diverse colleges and universities educating more minority and first-generation students than any other cohort of similar institutions in the United States. Access to these new resources, will allow HSIs to significantly contribute to the growth and development of the country’s national security workforce.” The members have long supported grant opportunities for HSIs. In May, Crowley, Serrano, and Curbelo, along with Reps. Ben Ray Luján (D-NM) and Will Hurd (R-TX), successfully led an amendment to the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act to require the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a grant program to support undergraduate STEM education at HSIs. The amendment was the latest move in the longstanding effort to establish this program, including recent legislation introduced by Serrano, Crowley, and Luján in April. . ###
12.01.2015	The Bronx, NY– Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on World AIDS Day: “We have made significant advances since the early years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, but let us not forget the millions of individuals we have lost and those that still struggle with this terrible illness every year. New York City is a perfect example of the progress we have made and the challenges we still face in eradicating HIV/AIDS. Despite the fact that the number of new cases has significantly decreased during the last decade, we still have one of the highest rates of infection in the country, particularly in low-income communities of color. “On World AIDS Day, let us recommit ourselves to combating the spread of HIV/AIDS, as well as the stigma that is still associated with being HIV-positive. One of the most simple, basic steps we can take is expanding regular testing access. We also must allocate more funding to expand HIV/AIDS preventive and support services, and to finding a cure both at home and abroad. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee I will continue working to expand access to effective programs, including syringe exchange programs, which I have always made a priority, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program, and programs to help HIV-positive homeless people. “We all have a role to play in these efforts, whether that be through testing and sexual health awareness, the sharing of useful knowledge and information with others, fighting the fear and stigma that too often accompanies this illness, advocacy, and supporting legislation and policy changes.” For more information on HIV/AIDS, or to find your nearest testing center, please call the New York City Department of Health at 311 or visit www.nyc.gov/health.
11.19.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the reintroduction of the Anti-Hunger Empowerment Act of 2015. The bill was originally introduced by Congressman Serrano during the 109th Congress as a way to replace administrative cost provisions within in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to expand its ability to provide nutrition assistance to communities facing hunger insecurity. “The holiday season is quickly approaching us, and for many of us the holidays are a time filled with togetherness, festivities, and food," said Congressman Serrano. "Sadly, millions of individuals and families will spend this season worrying about when their next meal is coming from or go without food altogether. “No child or individual should have to go hungry in this country. The Anti-Hunger Empowerment Act of 2015 would allow the US Department of Agriculture to ensure a greater utilization of SNAP funding by food pantries, soup kitchens, and other charitable feeding programs to provide more meals to communities facing food hardship. Every household should have access to quality and nutritious food, and this legislation will help achieve that goal.” This legislation would: Establish the Beyond the Soup Kitchen Grant Program to provide funds to community-based and faith-based charitable feeding organizations to expand their grassroots anti-hunger activities. These activities include providing nutrition education and helping individuals enroll in federal food assistance programs. Expand the number of hours supplemental nutrition assistance office are open and reduce wait times at SNAP offices. Remove burdensome and duplicative requirements that deter eligible Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients from applying. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
11.17.2015	Connector Will Provide Critical Transportation Link for Pedestrians and Bicyclists Between the South Bronx and Randall’s Island, Providing Access to 330 Acres of Open SpaceNEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio, New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC), Congress Member José E. Serrano, Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito, Council Member Maria del Carmen Arroyo and Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. today announced the opening of the Randall’s Island Connector, a pathway that connects the South Bronx and Randall’s Island, providing a critical transportation link for pedestrians and bicyclists, and increased accessibility and opportunities for the people of the Bronx. The quarter-mile pathway, which begins at 132nd Street and runs southward under the existing Amtrak trestle, over the Bronx Kill to Randall’s Island, will allow South Bronx residents and visitors to easily access 330 acres of recreational resources at Randall’s Island Park, including sports fields and facilities, restored wetlands, gardens, picnic areas and waterfront bicycle and pedestrian pathways (www.randallsisland.org). The Randall’s Island Connector was developed in partnership with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, who will operate and maintain the Connector with the Randall’s Island Park Alliance, and New York City Department of Transportation (NYC DOT)."The South Bronx and Randall's Island are just hundreds of feet apart. With this new path, we finally bring them together with a safe, convenient connect," said Mayor de Blasio. "This new path will link children and families in the Bronx to ball fields and open spaces where they can run, bike and play. Just like the revitalized High Bridge, this connector to Randall's Island is going to open up new opportunities these communities need and deserve."“The Randall’s Island Connector has been many years in the making, and thanks to the partnership and support of our elected, City, State and community partners, I am thrilled that we are opening this critical link between the South Bronx and Randall’s Island,” said NYCEDC President Maria Torres-Springer. “By providing direct pedestrian and bicycle access to Randall’s Island, we are making it easier for Bronx residents to enjoy the recreational opportunities it offers, improving quality of life in the neighborhood and exemplifying our commitment to building strong and equitable communities across all five boroughs.”“The opening of the Randall’s Island Connector supports our goals to increase New Yorkers equitable access to greenspaces across the boroughs,” said NYC Parks Commissioner Mitchell J. Silver, FAICP. “The connector opens up a whole new opportunity for Bronx residents who have never stepped foot on the Island. And now, by taking a stroll over this connector, they have access to an amazing greenspace that has seen tremendous transformation in recent years, and houses numerous resources for New Yorkers.”“For more than a decade, the Randall’s Island Park Alliance has been working to build bicycle and pedestrian pathways along nearly nine miles of the Island’s parkland and shoreline,” said Aimee Boden, President of the Randall’s Island Park Alliance. “The new Connector leads directly into this Island-wide pathway system, and we could not be more excited to help open such increased and improved access to the Park’s fields, facilities and natural areas for neighbors in the South Bronx.”The Connector provides the only at-grade, Americans with Disabilities Act compliant access between Randall’s Island and the South Bronx. Current access requires traversing ramps and stairwells along the Triborough Bridge. The Connector project included the construction of the quarter-mile pedestrian and bicycle pathway, lighting, fencing, landscaping, and sustainable stormwater basins. Additionally, the project included adding decking and railings for the existing utility bridge to be used safely as a pedestrian bridge. This dual-purpose bridge, constructed in 2009 as part of Con Edison’s electric expansion project from the Bronx to Randall’s Island, is the result of a partnership between Con Edison and the City.“This is great news for our community, which has been working together to improve access to quality green spaces for many years,” said Congress Member José E. Serrano. “The Randall’s Island Connector will open up a whole new world of opportunities and green space for Bronxites to enjoy by making more accessible an area that has been effectively shut to us for decades. As someone who grew up seeing Randall’s Island as a needlessly difficult destination for Bronxites, and someone who has worked for years to secure federal funding for this project as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, it is incredibly gratifying to see this project finally become a reality. Our healthier lifestyles begin with access to quality outdoor space, and the Randall’s Island Connector is an important step.”“The Randall's Island Connector will serve as a critical transportation link between South Bronx residents and the wide array of attractions Randall's Island has to offer - including 330 acres of open space, sports fields, picnic areas and more,” said New York City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito. “This project is an example of exactly the kind of smart, commonsense, and creative investment that we need in the South Bronx, generating much-needed access and opportunities for the local community. I staunchly advocated for the timely completion of the Randall’s Island Connector for the past decade, investing $110,000 into its development, and am proud to see this project some into fruition today. I thank NYCEDC, Council Member Maria del Carmen Arroyo, and all the community advocates and stakeholders who made this day possible.”"This long awaited project will open up a safe, direct way for Bronxites to access Randall's Island,” saidBronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. “I am proud to have supported its construction, and I encourage all Bronxites, and visitors from all over the city as well, to take a trip to explore this tremendous new amenity. It's never been easier to explore Randall's Island from the Bronx."“I am thrilled that the Randall’s Island Connector is finally opening to the public,” said Congress Member Carolyn B. Maloney. “By providing residents with an easy route for walking and biking, NYCEDC, the Parks and Recreation Department, NYC DOT, and the Randall’s Island Park Alliance have given thousands of individuals access to the beautiful sports facilities, restored wetlands, gardens, picnic areas, and waterfront pathways on Randall’s Island. I want to thank everyone who worked so hard to make this project a reality, and encourage all those in the area to make use of this wonderful resource.”“Our community has anxiously awaited the completion of the Randall's Island Connector project,” saidCouncil Member Maria del Carmen Arroyo. “It is a great transportation resource for our community and gives us cause for celebration. I want to congratulate all who dedicated themselves to seeing the project through. Well done!"“South Bronx residents have long needed access to parks and open space,” said New York Secretary of State Cesar A. Perales. “The Department of State is proud to fund part of the development of the Randall’s Island Connector project. The completion of this pathway provides a critical transportation link allowing pedestrians and bicyclists to easily access 330 acres of recreational resources at Randall’s Island Park, helping ensure a better quality of life for South Bronx residents.”“Governor Andrew Cuomo is using smart transportation investments to improve critical infrastructure, enhance community connections and support local economic growth,” said New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll. “The State Department of Transportation is pleased to have supported the Randall’s Island Connector while also providing construction, funding and land for nearby Starlight Park, both projects advancing the Bronx River Greenway and the recreation, accessibility and opportunities it provides.”“This opening of the Connector today demonstrates how cooperative efforts between the private sector and government can lead to good things,” said Harlem River Yard Ventures Senior Vice President Tony Riccio. “This is truly a celebration of good will and hard work. And in the end the benefit of this project will live on and mark its place in New York City's History."“Con Edison is proud to have been a partner in developing the Bronx Kill crossing to Randall’s Island,” said Con Edison Senior Vice President for Elective Operations Robert Schimmenti. “The crossing increases electric power to the Island, is a significant improvement to the waterfront, and is a new greenway from the South Bronx community to more than 330 acres of recreational amenities on the Island. This is an exciting achievement for us all.”“During the community planning process, Randall’s Island Connector emerged as one of the first priority projects specifically because it offers easy access to diverse recreational opportunities not available elsewhere in the neighborhoods of the South Bronx,” says Mathews Nielsen Landscape Architects Principal Signe Nielsen, RLA, FASLA.“We applaud NYCEDC, NYC Department of Parks & Recreation and NYC Department of Transportation for bringing the Connector to life, successfully linking neighborhoods starved for open space with the amenities on Randall’s Island,” said New York Restoration Project Executive Director Deborah Marton. “The opening of this pathway marks a new chapter for the borough, one that celebrates accessible open space and actively fosters healthier communities. NYRP looks forward to collaborating with the City to continue to enliven the landscape of the South Bronx.”The Connector project, designed by Mathews Nielsen Landscape Architects (MNLA) and HDR, Inc., utilizes green infrastructure and a sustainable stormwater management plan to avoid site impacts to the Bronx Kill and tidal ecosystem. It will provide environmental benefits including a reduced total volume of stormwater runoff, increased infiltration and groundwater recharge and improved water quality. "The Randall’s Island Connector is the last of five key projects that comprise the South Bronx Greenway master plan. Previous projects of the master plan include Hunts Point Landing, the Lafayette Avenue Streetscape, the Hunts Point Avenue Streetscape and Food Center Drive. When fully completed, the Greenway will encompass 1.5 miles of waterfront land, 8.5 miles of inland green streets and nearly 12 acres of new waterfront open space throughout Hunts Point and Port Morris. The five South Bronx Greenway projects, which represent a $48 million total investment, have been funded by City, State, and Federal sources including by City capital, Congress Member Serrano, who allocated approximately $1 million for the Connector project, Council Speaker Mark-Viverito, who allocated $110,000 for the Connector project, Council Member Arroyo, who allocated $140,000 for the Connector project, Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz, Jr., Assemblywoman Carmen Arroyo, State Senator and former Council Member Jose M. Serrano, the New York State Department of State with funds provided under Title 11 of the Environmental Protection Fund, NYSDOT Transportation Enhancement Program, the Wildlife Conservation Society- National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) South Bronx Waterfront Partnership, a Federal Department of Transportation Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) planning grant, the Iroquois Gas Transmission System, L.P., Con Edison, Sustainable South Bronx and THE POINT Community Development Corporation.About NYCEDCNew York City Economic Development Corporation is the City's primary vehicle for promoting economic growth in each of the five boroughs. NYCEDC's mission is to stimulate growth through expansion and redevelopment programs that encourage investment, generate prosperity and strengthen the City's competitive position. NYCEDC serves as an advocate to the business community by building relationships with companies that allow them to take advantage of New York City's many opportunities. Find us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter, or visit our blog to learn more about NYCEDC projects and initiatives.
10.29.2015	Washington, DC – Members of the congressional delegation representing the Bronx, Reps. Charles B. Rangel (NY-13), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Eliot Engel (NY-16), and Jose Serrano (NY-15) congratulated the Bronx for being one of the eight winners of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's 2015 RWJF Culture of Health Prize, which is awarded annually to honor outstanding community efforts and partnerships that are helping people live healthier lives. Winning communities will each receive a $25,000 cash prize and have their accomplishments celebrated and shared broadly with the goal of raising awareness and inspiring locally-driven change across the country. "As the primary sponsor of the Affordable Care Act, I believe that access to healthcare is a fundamental right. I thank the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for recognizing the Bronx community for its dedication to equal opportunity for health and ability to create a healthier, more positive environment to live. I will continue to support its efforts and work rigorously toward this aim," said Rep. Charles B. Rangel, who represents New York's 13th Congressional District that includes Upper Manhattan and parts of the Bronx. “For far too long, the health status of the Bronx had been in need of resuscitation and this award reflects years of hard work to make the Bronx a healthier place to live. I have seen firsthand the dedication of the community to develop new ways to improve the wellbeing of residents. A healthy community is a stronger community, and I thank the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for recognizing both the progress taking place in the Bronx, as well as the commitment to ensuring the health of all Bronxites,” said Rep. Joe Crowley, who represents New York’s 14th Congressional district that includes parts of Queens and the Bronx, including Einstein College of Medicine. “Being born and raised and continuing to live in the Bronx, I am intimately aware of what an incredibly vibrant borough we have. The Bronx is truly a community on the rise,” said Rep. Eliot Engel, who represents New York’s 16th Congressional District that includes parts of the Bronx and Westchester Counties. “As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, I know firsthand how valuable the health of the residents is to the health of our neighborhoods. People who come together to celebrate our diversity, to celebrate our community, to celebrate each other, build a foundation that inspires us all to take charge of our health needs. Our public health challenges are solvable if we continue to fight together for the resources necessary to keep important programs available. I thank the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for recognizing the hard work of all Bronxites, and let this honor be just the start of an even healthier Bronx.” “As the longtime champion of efforts to promote a cleaner and healthier environment and expanding access to healthcare in my district and the rest of the Bronx, I believe that there are few things as important to good quality of life than having good health. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s 2015 Culture of Health Prize Award is a recognition of everything we have done in the Bronx to promote healthier lives, and local community groups and individuals deserve a special acknowledgement for all their efforts. While we have much more to do to ensure the health and safety in the Bronx, this $25,000 prize will allow our community to build on everything we have already achieved,” said Congressman Jose Serrano, who represents New York’s 15th Congressional District that includes several Bronx neighborhoods. In the Bronx, signs of renewal are around every block. New apartment complexes, community centers, and urban gardens now permeate the neighborhoods once dominated by vacant buildings and abandoned cars. Policymakers, health care professionals, nonprofits, and individuals across this borough of 1.4 million people have united to revitalize every facet of community life, from jobs and schools to housing and the environment, resulting in significant progress. The once-neglected Bronx River is now being revitalized by community groups, creating a system of parks and trails known as the Bronx River Greenway which will provide recreation and education opportunities for residents. From 1985 to 2013, life expectancy at birth increased by 9.7 and 6.5 years for Bronx men and women, respectively. The awards were announced today at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s headquarters in Princeton, NJ. Representatives from the Bronx were on hand to accept the award from RWJF President and CEO Risa Lavizzo-Mourey. The RWJF Culture of Health Prize winners excelled in six criteria: Defining health in the broadest possible terms. Committing to sustainable systems changes and policy-oriented, long-term solutions. Cultivating a shared and deeply-held belief in the importance of equal opportunity for health. Harnessing the collective power of leaders, partners, and community members. Securing and making the most of available resources. Measuring and sharing progress and results. The RWJF Culture of Health Prize is awarded annually. Communities throughout New York may learn more and apply for the 2016 RWJF Culture of Health Prize at www.rwjf.org/cohprize. The deadline for phase 1 applications is November 12, 2015. ###
10.27.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the budget agreement reached by House and Senate leaders last night: “Throughout the entire appropriations process, Democrats have been calling for a sequester replacement that allows the Appropriations Committee to do its job and to invest in our economic future. After months of back and forth, I am glad Republicans were able come to the table and put aside their efforts at extreme austerity to agree on a two-year balanced, bipartisan package that equally funds defense and non-defense spending, avoids the damaging sequestration levels, and extends the debt ceiling. With this deal, the U.S. will be able to protect key social programs, including Social Security Disability Insurance and Medicare Part B. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am also glad to see that this agreement will hopefully allow the Committee to complete the appropriations process without the need for further continuing resolutions or a possible government shutdown. With less than a week before hitting our borrowing limit and a potential default, I hope the House will quickly enact this bipartisan agreement.” ###
10.26.2015	Thousands of South Bronx Residents Will Be Better Connected to Resources & Other Neighborhoods in the Bronx Via Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridges & Paths Congressman Serrano Helped Secure Funding; Sent Letter and Called Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx Washington, DC – Today, José E. Serrano announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded $10 million in TIGER Grants –one of the most competitive grant programs—to the City of New York to complete the construction of a final link in the Bronx River Greenway. The federal funding will go towards the construction of two bicycle/pedestrian bridges and nearly a mile of pathway in the South Bronx, between Concrete Plant and Starlight Parks. This TIGER funding will capitalize on previous investments in the Bronx River Greenway and will supplement $4.4 million in Sandy Recovery funding that has been allocated for the project. According to the City of New York, the final Bronx River Greenway link will include eight miles of bicycle and a pedestrian trail connecting major employment centers, educational, and tourist destinations. “As a longtime champion of efforts to green the South Bronx and restore the Bronx River, I am thrilled to see this project take another important step. These two pedestrian/bicycle bridges and a nearly a mile-long pedestrian trail will close an gap in the Bronx River Greenway and will help connect thousands of South Bronx residents to the Bronx River Greenway. With these new bridges and trails, local residents will have a more direct access to the beautiful green open spaces of the Bronx, as well as other recreational areas and facilities, educational resources, and employment centers –helping Bronxites enjoy a better quality of life. It will also help spur local economic development by helping attract visitors and tourists to the Bronx. I thank the U.S. Department of Transportation for heeding our call to fund this important project and for allocating such a generous amount of financial resources in TIGER grants. I also want to thank all the Bronx community groups that have been instrumental in making this project a reality,” said Congressman Serrano, who sent a letter and called Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to ask him to allocate funding for the project, and who has previously directed more than $37 million in federal funding to create and expand the Bronx River Greenway as a member of the House Appropriations Committee. The DOT Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program funds surface transportation projects and is one of the most competitive in the nation. It focuses on projects that will have a significant economic development and improve access to transportation for disconnected communities in rural and urban areas. For more information, please visit: http://www.transportation.gov/tiger
10.22.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the legislative proposal unveiled last night by the U.S. Treasury Department and the Department of Health and Human Services to help Puerto Rico pay its debt and get on the path of economic recovery: “This is encouraging news for all of us who have been calling on the Administration and Congress to take action to help Puerto Rico address its debt and fiscal crisis. The Administration’s comprehensive proposal will serve as a roadmap for Congress as it considers a legislative package to provide the island with the tools to deal with a dire debt and fiscal crisis, and to reignite its economy. The proposal focuses on key areas, including providing the island with mechanisms to restructure its financial liabilities, addressing the healthcare disparities that are hurting so many people and the economy, and extending the earned income tax credit (EITC) coverage to Puerto Rico. It also makes it clear that passing Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection, which I fully support, is the right first step for Puerto Rico to restructure its debt. Puerto Rico is running out of options. I applaud the Administration for fully engaging on this issue; now it is time for Congress to do its job and take action. This is a crisis that Congress can no longer ignore.” ###
10.16.2015	The Bronx, NY — On Wednesday, Congressman Serrano celebrated African Heritage with local community leaders and organizations. He presented congressional certificates of recognition to various individuals and organizations that work with the African Diaspora in the Bronx and throughout the rest of New York City. The awardees represented a wide range of sectors, from social services to civic leaders, business owners, community organizers and community groups. This year's honorees were: Afua Atta- Mensah, Director of Litigation at the Urban Justice Center; Mohammed Kaba, Neighborhood Organizer, NYC Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs; Mohammed Abdullah, Owner/ Operator of Accra Restaurant; Ngande Ambroise, Community Leader; Zainab Sesay-Harrell Dao, R.N., Founder of Sierra Leone Nurses Association - NY Tristate Chapter; and organizations Above and Beyond Initiative, Inc. and African Communities Together. “We have so many committed African leaders in the Bronx serving our community and making a difference in the borough. It is truly a pleasure to be able to recognize their hard work and service at the Second Annual Celebration of African Heritage. From advocates to entrepreneurs, these individuals and organizations play a crucial role in the African community and beyond. They represent a group that makes the Bronx richer and stronger. I was thrilled to be able to host this celebration for the second year in a row and I look forward to continuing it for years to come.” During the ceremony, Congressman Serrano was also presented with an Honorary Award and traditional African attire by Hon. Djounedou A. Titikpina, Founder and President of African People Alliance, Inc. and other community leaders for his work in the African Community. Honorary guests with Congressman José E. Serrano (center). Congressman Serrano addresses guests. Congressman Serrano was presented with with Honorary Award and traditional African attire by Hon. Djounedou A. Titikpina, Founder and President of African People Alliance, Inc. and other community leaders for his work in the African Community. (Left to Right) Portia Asare, Sandra Amoo, and Decota Letman, Co-Founders of ABI; Afua Atta- Mensah, Director of Litigation at the Urban Justice Center; Congressman José E. Serrano wearing the African attire presented to him as part of an Honorary Award by members of the African community; Ngande Ambroise, Community Leader; Amaha Kassa, Founder and Executive Director African Communities Together; Mohammed Kaba, Neighborhood Organizer at NYC Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs; and Zainab Sesay- Harrell Dao, R.N., Founder of the Sierra Leone Nurses Association -NY Tristate Chapter.
10.01.2015	Funding Awarded to Spring Bank. Will help expand lending and services for low-income individuals and businesses in the Bronx. WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, today announced that the Treasury Department Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund) has awarded Spring Bank, a Bronx community development institution, a total of $965, 496 in funds as part of its fiscal year (FY) 2015 round of grants. The CDFI Fund awarded $700,000 of the funds through the CDFI Program and $265,496 through the BEA Program. “I am proud to announce that Spring Bank in the Bronx has been awarded nearly $1 million in additional funding in FY 2015, part of which they are receiving once again in recognition of their fine work. These resources will allow them to expand their financing activities in the Bronx for individuals, small businesses, and other organizations," said Congressman Serrano. "They will allow them to continue growing and helping our community by spurring economic development. This is an important example of the impact that the CDFI Fund has in the Bronx.” The CDFI Program invests in credit unions, banks, loan funds, and other financial institutions operating in underserved communities that don’t have access to affordable financial products and services. It is a vital resource that draws in additional private money and investment to underserved communities. Statistics show that for every dollar of federal funding through the CDFI program, awardees can leverage $13 in private investment. The Bank Enterprise Award Program (BEA Program) provides monetary awards to FDIC-insured depository institutions for making investments in the nation’s most distressed communities. These communities have 1.5 times the national unemployment rate, and at least 30 percent of its residents live below the national poverty level. Recipients are required to invest an amount equal to the award received in eligible activities in distressed communities. Congressman Serrano currently serves as Ranking Member of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund). During his tenure as both Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, he has more than quadrupled funding for the CDFI Fund. In May 2015, the Opportunity Finance Network presented him with the CDFI Congressional Champion Award for his work in support of Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and the financial empowerment of low-income individuals and communities. CDFIs help bridge the financial services gap in underserved communities like the Bronx, helping ensure that local businesses and non-profits have the ability to expand and that individuals have access to mainstream financial services. In the South Bronx alone, CDFIs have used federal funding to provide more than 700 loans, worth more than $167 million dollars, to businesses, consumers, and non-profits over the years. This financial support has helped create and expand some of the community's most important priorities- including affordable housing, health care services, and small businesses. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.30.2015	The Bronx, NY — Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement in commemoration of African Heritage Month, celebrated every year during the month of September. “As African Heritage Month comes to an end, let us celebrate and honor the countless contributions of the African community in the Bronx and throughout the nation. Our communities are richer and stronger thanks to the African immigrant community’s ingenuity, hard work, and leadership. In the Bronx, many of the individuals making the most significant difference are African immigrants who, proud to call the Bronx home now, are changing our borough for the better. As neighbors and leaders throughout the Bronx, immigrants from places like Ghana, Nigeria, Guinea and elsewhere are a vital part of our community. I am incredibly proud to represent them in Congress, and I look forward to continue working with them to ensure they have access to the resources and support they need for more economic opportunities and a better quality of life. I also look forward to honoring them at my upcoming African Heritage Month Event,” said Congressman Serrano. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.30.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the passage of the Women’s Public Health and Safety Act (H.R. 3495). Republicans introduced H.R 3495 as a way to keep public health care providers, including Planned Parenthood, from receiving Medicaid funding for reproductive health services. Congressman Serrano voted against the bill, which would prevent millions of women who use Medicaid from accessing critical preventative and primary health care. “Time and time again Republicans have attempted to strip women of their right to access reproductive health services. The government has no place in dictating what a woman can and should do with her body. This bill would adversely compromise the health and well-being of millions of women who depend on public health providers. I cannot, and will not, stand by and watch women’s rights be violated. That is why I voted against this bill,” said Congressman Serrano. H.R. 3495 passed the House of Representatives yesterday by a vote of 236 to 193. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.25.2015	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, September 23, 2015 Congressman Serrano attended the White House Ceremony to welcome Pope Francis to Washington, DC on his first visit to the United States. Later that day, he attended a mass to canonize Junipero Serra. The event was historic for two reasons: it was the first canonization held in the United States and it was held in Spanish. On Thursday, September 24 Congressman Serrano attended the Pope’s address to Congress. Earlier this week, Congressman Serrano joined his Democratic colleagues to urge Pope Francis to address poverty, immigration reform, and climate change in a series of videos. “It was an honor and a privilege to listen to His Holiness Pope Francis. Pope Francis’ message was simple- that we have a duty and responsibility to care for people in this country and throughout the world. He invited Congress—and the American people—to respond to the problems we face as a nation with 'hope, healing, peace, and justice,' and by embracing and living up to the ideals and values that characterize us as a nation. His powerful message will remain with us for generations to come." ###
09.22.2015	Ahead of Pope Francis’ visit to Washington, D.C., House Democrats have unveiled three video messages -- all under 2 minutes -- asking the Pope to address immigration reform, climate change, and poverty from his speech to the U.S. Congress on Thursday, September 24th. Please find the links to the videos below, along with a list of participating Members by order of appearance: House Democrats Ask His Holiness, Pope Francis, To Address Comprehensive Immigration Reform Congresswoman Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33) Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) Congressman Jose Serrano (NY-15) House Democrats Ask His Holiness, Pope Francis, To Address Ways to Climate Change Congressman Mark Takai (HI-01) Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-46) Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) House Democrats Ask His Holiness, Pope Francis, To Address Ways to Combat Poverty Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Congressman Tony Cardenas (CA-29) Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41) Congresswoman Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Congressman Charles Rangel (NY-13) Congressman Paul Tonko (NY-20) Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus Xavier Becerra (CA-34) released the following statement: “We thank the Holy Father, Pope Francis, for being a resolute voice for human dignity and compassion. House Democrats agree with Pope Francis on the compelling need to fix our broken immigration system, to combat climate change that threatens our health and communities, and to raise the minimum wage so that no one working hard full-time lives in poverty. Ahead of the Pope’s speech to Congress on Thursday, we hope he urges Congress to take heed and take action.” # # #
09.16.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement in commemoration of Hispanic Heritage Month, celebrated every year from September 15 to October 15. “As Hispanic Heritage Month begins, we come together as a nation to honor the culture and countless contributions of Hispanics. “Since the founding of this great nation, Hispanics have played a crucial role in the formation of its social and cultural fabric. From their contributions on the battlefield, to the undeniably important role they have played in the arts and in sports, in the sciences and politics, this month serves as an opportunity to remember and thank them for their role in making America richer and stronger. “As a Puerto Rican and the representative of one of the most culturally diverse districts in the nation with residents from all over Latin America, I have always felt immensely proud of our values, traditions, contributions, and achievements. Today, let’s give a shout-out to the countless individuals that have helped us get where we are today. “Despite all the progress we have made as a community in recent decades, however, there is still much work to be done to continue moving forward. We have to keep fighting for greater economic opportunities, for comprehensive immigration reform, and for the strengthening of civil rights. Hispanics deserve a fair chance at the American Dream.” According to the Census Bureau, the 15th Congressional District in the Bronx is home to more than 483,000 individuals of Hispanic heritage. ### Congressman José E. Serrano, the most senior Latino Democrat in the House of Representatives, has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.15.2015	DFC Grants Will Be Used to Strengthen the Forward South Bronx Coalition (FSBC) Efforts to Combat the Use of Drugs in the Bronx Washington, DC —Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Forward South Bronx Coalition (FSBC) has been awarded a total of $125, 000 in grants by the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program, administered by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). The funds were awarded through ONDCP in collaboration with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). Serrano, as the Ranking Member of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the ONDCP, has helped ensure that the Drug Free Communities program has sufficient funding to support efforts like the FSBC and was instrumental in helping secure this funding. “For years, the Forward South Bronx Coalition has been providing residents of the Bronx with access to quality resources to help end substance abuse. This funding will expand the coalition’s ability to assist more people, and will help ensure that Bronxites have the help and support they need,” said Congressman Serrano. “This funding will allow FSBC to measure their reach and growth through the use of capacity surveys and other data collection methods, increase awareness of the dangers of alcohol and marijuana use, and reduce access to those drugs by young adults. There is no better use of funds than making sure our communities are healthy and drug free.” Forward South Bronx Coalition serves the residents of Longwood and Hunts Point in the Bronx. The coalition is convened by Sports Foundation, Inc. which has been providing residents of the Bronx with substance abuse prevention services for more than forty years. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.10.2015	Washington, DC –US Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement on the 14th Anniversary of September 11: “Nearly 15 years after the terrorist attacks of September 11, the memory and impression of this tragedy remains vivid. As we commemorate the 14th anniversary of 9/11, let us keep in our thoughts and prayers those who lost their lives and all the families who lost a loved one. Let us also remember and thank all the first responders and volunteers who put their lives on the line and worked tirelessly in its aftermath. “9/11 was a terrible day that touched all New Yorkers', and all Americans', lives. The attacks that occurred at the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and the attempted attack that ended in Pennsylvania, were shocking and horrifying. As someone who was in the city when this tragedy took place, I witnessed firsthand how shocking and heartbreaking this event was for everyone. But in the midst of this tragedy, our city banded together as never before. “People from every part of the country also came out to help in whatever way they could. We all came together as one, and we invoke that spirit of solidarity as we mark the 14th anniversary of 9/11 and work on other issues affecting our country and communities. “Today is a day to remember all those affected by the terrorist attack – victims, first responders, volunteers. Today, we honor and mourn those we lost, and we renew our commitments to those who put everything on the line to respond to this tragedy.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement urging the New York Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) to give the community greater input on the Harlem River Yards permit renewal process by holding a public hearing. The power plant emits high levels of air pollution in an area near a residential zone that is already home to many other sources of pollution. While DEC announced yesterday that it has extended the public comment period until September 18, it has still not made a decision on a public hearing. “Few communities in New York City are as burdened by air pollution as the South Bronx. As the state government considers the renewal of the Harlem River Yards Power Plant’s permit to operate, the very least residents deserve is an open, transparent, and inclusive process. I believe this requires a public hearing for neighbors and advocates to voice their concerns, and that more information requested by the community be provided. I commend DEC for extending the public comment period for two more weeks, but a public hearing is still necessary to fully engage and involve the community in the process as they should,” said Congressman Serrano. “The decision regarding this permit will have an impact on countless families that live nearby. These families deserve the opportunity to have their voices heard and to be closely involved in the process. As a longtime advocate of clean breathable air in the South Bronx, I encourage the DEC to fully include the community in the process as it reconsiders the Harlem River Yards (HRY) fossil fuel power plant’s permit to operate by holding a public hearing.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. Throughout his career, Serrano has always made it a priority working on environmental issues and supporting a new, healthy vision for his District.
09.02.2015	Washington, DC – New York Representatives of Puerto Rican descent José E. Serrano and Nydia Velázquez sent a letter this week to the House and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairmen and Ranking members urging them to mark up and pass H.R. 870/S.1774, the Puerto Rico Chapter 9 Uniformity Act. Last month, Puerto Rico’s government announced its inability to pay its debt, totaling around $73 billion. The bill, introduced by Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi in the House, along with Senators Schumer and Blumenthal in the Senate, would allow the government of Puerto Rico to restructure its debt under Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code like states are allowed to. “As you know, Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code allows states to enact state laws enabling insolvent municipalities- including public corporations- to file for bankruptcy, if necessary. For reasons that are not clear, Puerto Rico was not included in the original legislation authorizing Chapter 9. HR. 870/S. 1774 would simply remedy this oversight, and authorize Puerto Rico to have the same power as states. Absent that authority, Puerto Rico is faced with a difficult situation in which investors, insurers, the public entities, and other interested parties are forced to negotiate without an unbiased arbiter to oversee the proceedings and force the difficult decisions that may be necessary,” the members wrote. “To be clear, we are not asking that Puerto Rico receive anything different than what any other part of our nation receives. We simply ask that they be given the same tools that every state has to address these problems. Without these tools, Puerto Rico, and its public corporations, will continue to engage in a complicated, multi-sided negotiations process without a clear set of guidelines or the guarantee of an unbiased arbiter- both hallmarks of the federal bankruptcy process. It is likely that any private resolution to these issues will be challenged in court, but not in front of our nation's issue experts on these issues- federal bankruptcy judges.”FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER: Representative Robert Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Senator Chuck Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary 224 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Representative John Conyers Ranking Member House Committee on the Judiciary B-351 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Senator Patrick Leahy Ranking Member Senate Committee on the Judiciary 224 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Grassley, Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Leahy, and Ranking Member Conyers, We write to express our ongoing concern with the economic situation in Puerto Rico, and to urge you to take urgent action to mark up and pass H.R. 870/ S. 1774, the Puerto Rico Chapter 9 Uniformity Act. As Members of Congress of Puerto Rican descent, we strongly believe that this is an important and vital step in addressing the ongoing economic crisis in Puerto Rico. Last month, the Governor of Puerto Rico announced that it could not pay its debts, which total some $73 billion. A significant portion of this debt is held by three public corporations- the Puerto Rico Public Finance Authority, the Puerto Rico public electric utility (PREPA), and Puerto Rico's Water and Sewer Authority. In total, these public corporations hold approximately $20 billion of Puerto Rico's debt. And all three have significant upcoming payments that they may be unable to make absent serious concessions on the part of the bondholders. As you know, Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code allows states to enact state laws enabling insolvent municipalities- including public corporations- to file for bankruptcy, if necessary. For reasons that are not clear, Puerto Rico was not included in the original legislation authorizing Chapter 9. HR. 870/S. 1774 would simply remedy this oversight, and authorize Puerto Rico to have the same power as states. Absent that authority, Puerto Rico is faced with a difficult situation in which investors, insurers, the public entities, and other interested parties are forced to negotiate without an unbiased arbiter to oversee the proceedings and force the difficult decisions that may be necessary. To be clear, we are not asking that Puerto Rico receive anything different than what any other part of our nation receives. We simply ask that they be given the same tools that every state has to address these problems. Without these tools, Puerto Rico, and its public corporations, will continue to engage in a complicated, multi-sided negotiations process without a clear set of guidelines or the guarantee of an unbiased arbiter- both hallmarks of the federal bankruptcy process. It is likely that any private resolution to these issues will be challenged in court, but not in front of our nation's issue experts on these issues- federal bankruptcy judges. While this bill cannot solve all of Puerto Rico's financial problems, it is an important step in the right direction. Puerto Rico cannot wait any longer for this important flexibility- we urge you to mark up and pass this legislation immediately upon return from the August recess. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress Nydia Velázquez Member of Congress
08.28.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the nuclear agreement reached between the P5+ 1 nations and Iran: “Taking into consideration all the different components of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), I have come to the conclusion that it is the most sensible and viable way to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon now and in the future. “Nuclear confrontation remains one of the most challenging issues in the international arena, and we must continue working to contain nuclear proliferation. The question here is whether the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) is the most effective approach to constrain Iran’s nuclear ambitions. I think that it is. “In comparing this agreement to the alternatives, I think it is clear that continued collaboration with our allies is the best approach. Even though years of sanctions brought Iran to the negotiating table, during that time Iran continued and even expanded its nuclear enrichment program. This agreement will significantly reduce the number of centrifuges in operation and will impose strict restrictions on the level of enrichment that Iran is allowed to conduct. In addition, the agreement provides for a robust verification and inspection mechanism in which the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will have access to the Iranian nuclear facilities. Contrary to what the opposition claims, this agreement is much better than no deal. The agreement guarantees the removal of 98 percent of the enriched uranium stockpile in Iran, places strict restrictions on Iran’s research and development, severely delays any timeline for Iran to manufacture a nuclear weapon, and effectively halts Iran’s current efforts. “Furthermore, this agreement contains an important snapback mechanism that automatically re-imposes sanctions should Iran violate a provision of the agreement. "Americans can also rest assured that the United States is and will remain a staunch supporter and ally of the State of Israel. No agreement or approach will please everyone, but the Joint Comprehensive Plan represents an important step forward in our efforts to contain Iran’s nuclear capability, which in the end is our goal. “The alternate option–continuing to pursue sanctions on our own without the support of our allies—would be ineffective and ultimately weaken our efforts and our influence in preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The JCPOA is in the best interest of the United States, our allies, and the Middle East. “My support for this agreement does not mean that we are letting Iran off the hook. Iran remains a sponsor of terrorism and a danger to Israel and the United States, and our nation will continue to address these issues in a vigorous manner. But I firmly believe that the comprehensive oversight and restrictions put in place by this agreement will put the United States, and our allies, in the best position to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and to act in case they move towards that goal. "I applaud President Obama and Secretary Kerry for their leadership on this issue.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.27.2015	FTA Grants Will Establish Multi-Sector Partnership to Prepare Bronx Design and Construction Academy High School Students for Career in Transportation, Design, and Construction Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) has been awarded $739,605 in federal funding to establish a Workforce Investment Now – New York program in the Bronx. These funds were awarded by the Federal Transit Administration’s Innovative Public Transportation Workforce Development Program (Ladders of Opportunity Initiative) under the U.S. Department of Transportation. This funding will help launch an innovative multi-sector partnership that will focus on preparing high school students at the Bronx Design and Construction Academy for careers in transportation, design, and construction. “I am pleased to announce this workforce development grant to help high school students in the Bronx prepare for and obtain middle class jobs in the public transportation sector. By supporting a highly-skilled transit workforce, we are building ladders of opportunity for Bronx residents to move into the middle class and maintain the critical skills needed for an efficient public transportation system. This investment is critical both to the Bronx and to New York City’s workforce preparedness and competitiveness in the 21st Century,” said Congressman Serrano. The FTA’s Innovative Public Transportation Workforce Development Program provides grants to transit agencies to undertake workforce development activities such as creating employment training programs and conducting outreach programs to increase minority and female employment in the transit sector. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.14.2015	Washington, DC – US Congressman José E. Serrano, a longtime advocate of normalizing U.S.-Cuba relations and ending the Cuba embargo, released the following statement in celebration on the raising of the American flag at the U.S. Embassy in Havana today: “After more than five decades of broken diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba, today’s flag- raising ceremony at the U.S. Embassy in Havana is a historic moment and symbolically culminates the reopening of embassies in each other’s capital cities on July 20. There is still more work to be done for the full normalization of relations, but the reestablishment of diplomatic relations marks an important step, one that hopefully will help negotiations and bilateral relations to continue bearing fruit and moving forward. As a longtime advocate of this change, I am humbled and honored to be able to witness this moment. I once again applaud President Obama for his leadership on this issue.” During his 25 years in Congress, Congressman Serrano has consistently advocated for a change in U.S.-Cuba relations and an end to the Cuba embargo, including changing Cuba’s designation as a state sponsor of terror. During his time in office, Serrano has introduced various pieces of legislation with respect to Cuba, including the Cuba Reconciliation Act, which repeals the U.S. embargo, and the Baseball Diplomacy Act. In 2009, Congressman Serrano inserted language in the House Appropriations bill that rolled back restrictions on family travel that were implemented by the Bush administration. He also worked to roll back restrictions on agricultural trade between the two nations in the same bill. Thanks to his efforts, the groundwork was laid for President Obama to take further action to expand family travel later that year. More recently, Serrano has fought against efforts in the Appropriations Committee to roll back many of the Cuba policy changes implemented by the President in December. He attended the reopening of the Cuban embassy in Washington, DC on July 20, 2015. ###
08.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano sent a letter to Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez asking for the Department of Labor, specifically the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), to play a role in the federal investigation of the origins of the Legionnaires’ disease in the Bronx and to help determine whether the violation of federal workplace safety laws have been a factor in the outbreak. Most of the locations affected so far are workplaces required to meet federal safety regulations. “As you know, the current outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in the Bronx has killed 10 individuals and sickened more than 100. As of August 10th, ten locations have tested positive for Legionella, including a hospital, a hotel, a manufacturing facility, a mall, and two office buildings (as well as a public school, two government office buildings, and a privately owned building). What many of these locations have in common is that they are workplaces- and several are ones that involve significant interactions with members of the public. As local, state, and federal health authorities continue to investigate the origin of this crisis, I believe that we are now at a point where OSHA expertise and experience would be helpful in determining whether federal workplace safety laws were violated in the lead up to this event, and in promoting safe workplaces in the affected areas. Given that many of these indoor workplaces were also areas frequented by the public, such an investigation would yield great benefits to the entire community,” wrote Congressman Serrano in the letter. Congressman Serrano also encouraged the Department to revisit previously proposed indoor workplace air standards shelved by the Bush Administration in 2001, which “would have required employers to develop written plans to maintain indoor air quality, conduct regular inspections and maintenance to ensure indoor air quality, and to take preventive measures to control specific hazardous sources.” Full text of the letter: The Honorable Thomas Perez Secretary Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Perez, I write to you regarding the ongoing Legionella crisis that is affecting significant portions of my congressional district in the Bronx. I urge your department, specifically the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), to play an active role in addressing the ongoing crisis in my district. As you know, the current outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in the Bronx has killed 10 individuals and sickened more than 100. As of August 10th, ten locations have tested positive for Legionella, including a hospital, a hotel, a manufacturing facility, a mall, and two office buildings (as well as a public school, two government office buildings, and a privately owned building). What many of these locations have in common is that they are workplaces- and several are ones that involve significant interactions with members of the public. As local, state, and federal health authorities continue to investigate the origin of this crisis, I believe that we are now at a point where OSHA expertise and experience would be helpful in determining whether federal workplace safety laws were violated in the lead up to this event, and in promoting safe workplaces in the affected areas. Given that many of these indoor workplaces were also areas frequented by the public, such an investigation would yield great benefits to the entire community. I also believe that given this outbreak, it is also time to for OSHA to revisit its previously proposed indoor workplace air standards (Indoor Air Quality, 59 Federal Register 15968-16039 (April 5, 1994)). First proposed in 1994, these standards would require employers to implement controls to minimize the dangers from outdoor air contaminants, microbial contamination, hazardous chemicals, and other sources of health risks for employees. As a microbial contaminate, Legionella was specifically included in this proposed rule. The proposed rule would have required employers to develop written plans to maintain indoor air quality, conduct regular inspections and maintenance to ensure indoor air quality, and to take preventive measures to control specific hazardous sources. Unfortunately, this rule was never finalized, and was eventually withdrawn by the Bush Administration in 2001. The outbreak of this disease in New York has not occurred in isolation. Over the last decade, the number of cases of Legionnaires' disease has more than tripled. Clearly, we need to do more to address not just this illness, but a whole host of problems that can develop from unsafe air quality. The 1994 rule, modified to address more recent workplace advances, would do just that. It would help minimize exposure to diseases like Legionella, and would help ensure that when problems do occur, there is already a specific plan of action in place to address these issues. While OSHA regulations are applicable only to employers and employees in workplace environments, it is clear that strict standards implemented by OSHA can play an important role in protecting the public health. I urge the Department to act, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, José E. Serrano ###
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today celebrated the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, and called on Republicans in Congress to restore the Act. The original legislation was signed into law by Democratic President Johnson on this date in 1965. “In the year 2015, it pains me to know that the struggle for the right to vote is not over,” said Representative Serrano. “We must renew our commitment to protecting this fundamental right for all Americans. I call on House Republicans to allow an immediate vote on federal legislation to restore the Voting Rights Act, to update and modernize our voter registration systems, and to require all states to allow some form of early voting.” It has been more than two years since the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder, which gutted essential pieces of the VRA and has been called “a dagger in the heart of the Voting Rights Act.” In that decision, Chief Justice Roberts acknowledged the ongoing persistence of voter discrimination and invited Congress to come up with a new coverage formula based on current conditions. “The Voting Rights Act is the most successful piece of civil rights legislation in history, allowing many racial and ethnic minorities to fully participate in our democracy for the first time,” said Rep. Serrano. “It helped ensure African-American, Latino, and Asian-American voices were heard in our public debates, and that these voices were no longer silenced or ignored. Since the Supreme Court’s decision, a string of anti-voter laws were launched in various states which resulted in the suppression of these voices. Collectively, these laws are a direct threat to the strength of our democracy. It’s time for Congress to address this threat by passing legislation to restore the Voting Rights Act and expand access to the ballot box.” Serrano is a cosponsor of the H.R. 2867, the Voting Rights Advancement Act, which would restore the power of Section 5 of the VRA by updating the coverage formula, and by providing new tools to fight against discriminatory voting practices. ###
07.30.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Representatives José E. Serrano, Charles Rangel, Joseph Crowley, along with Bronx Borough President Rubin Diaz today issued the following statement after President Barack Obama signed legislation to rename the Morrisania Post Office, located in the Bronx, in honor of former Congressman and Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo. Badillo became the first Puerto-Rican city commissioner and borough president, and was the first Congressman to be born in Puerto Rico: "We thank President Barack Obama for signing our bill that will honor the legacy of former Congressman and Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo, who made history as the first Puerto Rican serving in Congress. Despite his humble beginnings, Congressman Badillo was able to overcome adversity with great fortitude and rose to become a legend in New York politics. In Congress, he was fearless and tireless in fighting for equality and justice for the people of New York. By renaming the Bronx post office in his honor, Congressman Badillo's legacy and contributions can continue to inspire generations of young people to follow in his footsteps. The Post Office will embody his spirit of perseverance and grit which adds symbolic meaning to a historical building built in the late 30s." Badillo was born in Puerto Rico in 1929. Badillo’s father, an English teacher, and mother passed away of tuberculosis at an early age. At 11 years old, Badillo moved to the United States, and later settled down in New York. In 1951, Badillo graduated with honors from City College and in 1954, was the valedictorian of his class at Brooklyn Law School. In 1965, Badillo was elected Bronx Borough President and in 1970, Badillo was elected to Congress as a United States representative. Badillo spent seven years as a Congressman representing South Bronx. There, he fought for voting rights, programs to help inner cities, and bilingual education. In 1971, Badillo brought attention to an issue affecting Puerto Ricans; at the time, Puerto Ricans were not eligible for federal benefits under Social Security such as food stamps. As chairman of the CUNY board from 1999 to 2001, Badillo oversaw the end of open enrollment in senior colleges and higher admissions and graduation requirements. ###
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today celebrated the 50th Anniversary of Medicare & Medicaid, signed into law by Democratic President Johnson on this date in 1965 as part of the Social Security Act. “Fifty years ago our government passed landmark legislation to protect our most vulnerable through the unprecedented step of providing health care to seniors, people with disabilities and low-income families. Medicare and Medicaid were founded on a simple idea- that no one should have to go broke or lack access to adequate health care due to their health care history or income. Since then, millions of individuals and families have benefitted from the preventive care and treatment these two programs provide. More than 100 million individuals, including countless people and families in the Bronx, are enrolled in Medicaid and Medicare today. They have peace of mind in knowing that they don’t have to worry about being able to access affordable health care they or their families may need. Thanks to this achievement, hundreds of thousands of lives have been saved and Americans’ quality of life has improved,” said Congressman Serrano. “Despite this record of proven success, Republicans insist in getting rid of Obamacare, which extended the life of the Medicare Trust Fund for 13 more years and further expanded access to quality affordable health care. We can’t allow Republicans to get away with their plans, and leave low-income seniors and families without health care. Congress should be working towards strengthening and expanding Medicare and Medicaid. The proof is in the pudding; these programs work.” ###
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Reps. José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Tom Emmer (R-MN) sent a letter last week to World Bank President, Dr. Jim Yong Kim, with 39 of their colleagues urging him to improve road safety in developing countries. Worldwide more than 1.3 million die in road crashes annually, with nearly 90 percent occurring in developing countries. While the World Bank has already taken strides towards improving road safety, the rate of global deaths due to crashes continues to rise with the World Health Organization anticipating deaths due to traffic injury to surpass HIV/AIDS soon. “As we’ve seen in the United States, there is nothing more important to raising living standards, increasing safety and promoting economic development than improvements to transportation,” said Emmer. “As developing nations continue to grow, transportation is key to allowing industry and trade to expand and there is no organization more important to this than the World Bank. I am proud to work with a bipartisan coalition of Members in advocating for American citizens and interests abroad by advancing the goal of upgrading transportation safety in developing nations.” “Road safety, both at home and abroad, is vital to citizens’ security, helps decrease healthcare costs, and boosts economic competitiveness. We have to make developing countries’ roads meet minimum safety standards to protect the lives of millions of people while promoting economic growth. Through its financing of road construction projects around the globe, the World Bank is uniquely positioned to help improve road safety for all users—pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists—by requiring a minimum set of cost-effective and attainable standards. I am honored to work with colleagues from both sides of aisle to bring attention to this important issue,” said Congressman Serrano. The text of the letter is below and attached: Jim Yong Kim President The World Bank 1818 H Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20433 Dear Dr. Kim: As you may know, road crashes have become a significant and troubling problem worldwide. More than 1.3 million people are killed in road crashes each year, 90 percent of them in developing countries. A large percentage of the victims are children. The rate of road crashes has been rising quickly, and the World Health Organization expects road traffic injuries to overtake HIV/AIDS as a leading cause of death. We believe that the World Bank is uniquely positioned to improve road safety around the world. We are concerned about road safety abroad not only because of its global impact, but also because it helps protect our constituents when they travel. Researchers at Johns Hopkins University found that road crashes are the most prevalent cause of non-natural death of American travelers abroad, surpassing terrorism and other forms of crime. In addition to preventing road-related fatalities, building safe roads makes economic sense. As you pointed out in your foreword to the World Bank’s report “Transport for Health,” road crashes cost approximately one to five percent of Gross Domestic Product in developing countries. In light of this, the Bank’s website rightly notes that expenditure on road safety should be seen as an investment and not as a cost. Because the World Bank plays a preeminent role in financing road construction in developing countries, you are in a position to have tremendous influence in the efforts to improve road safety. We know that the World Bank has taken some important steps to address these issues, including the establishment of the Global Road Safety Facility. However, the World Bank’s funding for the Facility has amounted to only a very small percentage (less than one one-thousandth) of what the Bank spends on roads. We believe that more needs to be done to address the safety of all roads built under World Bank projects. Too often, roads in developing countries are built without the proper safeguards to prevent crashes, and with little regard for the safety of all road users, including vulnerable pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorcyclists. The design requirements for safe roads are well understood, and development agencies’ construction projects should more closely follow these guidelines. One way that the World Bank has tried to improve safety is to work with the International Road Assessment Program (iRAP), which rates roads from one to five stars in terms of road safety for each category of road users (vehicle occupants, pedestrians, etc.). iRAP has found that an increase of one star cuts crash deaths by roughly half, and that road safety investments yield impressive economic returns. While the World Bank has financed some road construction where it requires a three-star minimum rating, it has not made this a requirement for all the construction it funds. In order to reduce accidents and deaths, we urge you to require a three-star minimum rating for each category of road users on all World Bank-funded roads. By requiring a three-star minimum rating, you have the opportunity to make a major and lasting contribution that will save people’s lives, significantly reduce traffic-related injuries, and enhance economic growth. Thank you for your consideration of this issue, and we look forward to working with you to improve road safety. Sincerely, ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
07.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement after H.R. 3099, or “The Donald Trump Act”, which targets so called immigrant “sanctuary cities,” was approved in the House of Representatives by a Republican majority. The bill was approved by a 241-179 vote. “This bill is not only one more blatant attack on our nation’s immigrant community, but also an assault on local governments and law enforcement agencies’ right to implement policing measures that comply with the constitution as they see fit. By making federal criminal justice grants contingent on helping with all federal immigration enforcement, including collecting information on a person’s immigrant status anytime and for any reason, the Trump Act puts communities’ security at risk by creating a situation where undocumented immigrants won’t feel comfortable talking to law enforcement officials. In places like New York City, where nearly 40% of residents are foreign born, it is imperative for local law enforcement entities and officials to be able to work with all residents, documented or undocumented. This bill would put New York City’s government in a position where they would have to choose between federal funds or doing its job in the most effective manner. With the Trump Act, the Republican party has once again showed its true colors – it would rather go after innocent immigrant families than allowing local law enforcement agencies to do their job as effectively as possible while complying with the United States’ Constitution. Instead of working on this misguided bill and taking cues from a presidential candidate who has clearly shown how out of touch with reality he is, Republicans should be working with Democrats to address immigration in a sensible manner by finally supporting and passing comprehensive immigration reform.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
07.17.2015	The Bronx, NY —Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in celebration of Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month. “Today and tomorrow, Muslims in the Bronx and around the nation will celebrate the conclusion of Ramadan. I would like to extend my warm wishes to all who are observing this joyous occasion. Eid is a time of unity for the Muslim community to reflect on the principles of their faith. “Over the past month, our Muslim family and friends have also given back to our community through charitable deeds. Their contributions during this time, and throughout the year, are a reflection of a thriving and generous community that enriches and strengthens the Bronx and our nation. “During Ramadan, and always, let us support our friends and family of all backgrounds as they celebrate their faith and cultural heritage. I am proud to represent members of all different faith groups, including Muslims, in my district. “On behalf of the Bronx, Eid Mubarak to all who are celebrating.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
07.09.2015	URGE PRESIDENT TO SIGN LEGISLATION IMMEDIATELY History Maker Herman Badillo Served as Bronx Borough President & Was First Puerto Rican to Serve as Congressman; Badillo Also Served as NYC Deputy Mayor Under Ed Koch Schumer, Gillibrand, Serrano, Rangel, Crowley Put Forth Legislation to Rename Post Office in the Bronx After Herman Badillo, Which Has Now Passed Both Senate & House; Next Step Is For President Obama To Sign Bill Lawmakers: Dedication of Morrisania Post Office Is a Lasting Tribute to Herman Badillo’s Steadfast Commitment & Dedication to New York City U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Congressmembers José E. Serrano, Charles Rangel, and Joseph Crowley today announced that both the Senate and the House of Representatives have passed legislation to rename the Morrisania Post Office, located in the Bronx, in honor of former Congressman and Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo. Badillo became the first Puerto-Rican city commissioner and borough president, and was the first Congressman to be born in Puerto Rico. The bill will now be sent to President Obama and once it is approved, Badillo’s name will be proudly displayed at the Morrisania Post Office. “Herman Badillo’s legacy serves as a proud reminder of the American Dream. Badillo came from a Puerto Rican family and he showed us that despite the humble beginning, economic disadvantages and discrimination he faced, he was able to persevere. When we enter the Morrisania Post Office, we will not only remember this incredible man, but we will remember how lucky we are to have so many opportunities in this great city and all across the United States,” said Senator Schumer. “Herman Badillo was a strong advocate for civil rights, equal opportunity and education reform. Naming the Morrisania Post Office after him is a testament to our continued fight for these social issues and proof of the impact Herman Badillo had and will continue to have on society.” “Congressman Herman Badillo is remembered for his tenacity, dedication to service and passion about the issues facing his fellow New Yorkers,” said Senator Gillibrand. “This is a fitting tribute to his pivotal leadership and the legacy he leaves. With this renaming, we honor his memory and celebrate his contributions to the community for which he proudly fought.” “I am thrilled to see this legislation, so important for the Bronx and all of us who want to see Herman Badillo’s life and legacy honored, cleared in the Senate and moving on to the President’s desk for his signature. I thank all of my colleagues in Congress who supported our efforts to ensure Herman Badillo’s legacy lives on, especially Senator Schumer for his leadership and support of this important legislation in the Senate,” said Congressman Serrano, who was the original sponsor of the bill in the House of Representatives. "My great friend Herman Badillo was a fixture in New York City politics for nearly four decades, championing civil rights, jobs, housing and educational reform. Even after his passing, he continues to be a true testament to the American Dream. I thank Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and the entire NY Congressional Delegation for their support to push this bill through Congress. Renaming this post office in honor of Herman is a fitting way to preserve and honor his legacy in the Bronx,” said Rep. Rangel. “Herman Badillo’s contributions to the Bronx, the City of New York and our country as a whole, cannot be overstated,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “Renaming the Morrisania branch of the U.S. Postal Service is a fitting tribute for someone who was not only a trailblazer for the Latino community, but a champion for vulnerable communities everywhere. I thank Senators Schumer and Gillibrand for ushering this effort in the Senate and to everyone involved in making sure Herman’s memory and legacy are honored.” “Herman Badillo was a trailblazer and a pioneer in Congress, as Bronx Borough President and as a fighter on the issues that mattered to him the most. Renaming the Morrisania Post Office in honor of Herman Badillo is a fitting tribute to his service in the federal government, and I was proud to have been able to propose this wonderful honor for a man who was both a mentor and a friend to me. I thank our Senators, Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, as well as our Congressional representatives, for supporting this wonderful recognition for Herman Badillo, and I look forward to president Obama signing this legislation and making the ‘Herman Badillo Post Office’ a reality,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. Badillo was born in Puerto Rico in 1929. Badillo’s father, an English teacher, and mother passed away of tuberculosis at an early age. At 11 years old, Badillo moved to the United States , and later settled down in New York. In 1951, Badillo graduated with honors from City College and in 1954, was the valedictorian of his class at Brooklyn Law School. In 1965, Badillo was elected Bronx Borough President and in 1970, Badillo was elected to Congress as a United States representative. Badillo spent seven years as a Congressman representing South Bronx. There, he fought for voting rights, programs to help inner cities, and bilingual education. In 1971, Badillo brought attention to an issue affecting Puerto Ricans; at the time, Puerto Ricans were not eligible for federal benefits under Social Security such as food stamps. As chairman of the CUNY board from 1999 to 2001, Badillo oversaw the end of open enrollment in senior colleges and higher admissions and graduation requirements. The lawmakers today said that the Morrisania Post Office is a historical federal building included on the National Register of Historic Places. The lawmakers said that President Obama should sign legislation immediately that will permanently honor Herman Badillo in the Bronx. ###
07.07.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano, the most senior member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent, today sent a letter to President Obama asking him for more action by the federal government to help Puerto Rico address their ongoing debt crisis: “This is a multi-faceted crisis that demands multi-faceted solutions. One piece of that puzzle is the need for congressional action to expand Chapter 9 bankruptcy availability to Puerto Rico. Just yesterday, the 1st Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that Puerto Rico cannot issue its own municipal bankruptcy law absent federal authorization. While we in Congress will continue our efforts to enact H.R. 870 into law, this will not solve all of the fiscal problems on the island. Puerto Rico needs to implement structural reforms that will enhance job creation, increase economic growth, and attract investment to the island. The federal government can provide sound advice and expertise into how to carry out these reforms without increasing the financial burden on the residents of Puerto Rico, particularly poor and middle class residents. Further federal action is necessary to help address all of these issues,” wrote Congressman Serrano in the letter. FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER: July 7, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write to express the urgent need for federal action to help resolve the ongoing debt crisis in Puerto Rico. While I am thankful for the efforts of the Department of the Treasury so far, we have now reached a point where more action by the federal government is needed. As has been well-documented in the media, Puerto Rico has more than $73 billion in overall debt. With several large debt payments due soon, there are immediate liquidity challenges for the government. Absent further federal action or some resolution of Puerto Rico's debt issues, the island will be forced to make severe financial decisions that will hurt both the Puerto Rican people and the national economy. This is a multi-faceted crisis that demands multi-faceted solutions. One piece of that puzzle is the need for congressional action to expand Chapter 9 bankruptcy availability to Puerto Rico. Just yesterday, the 1st Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that Puerto Rico cannot issue its own municipal bankruptcy law absent federal authorization. While we in Congress will continue our efforts to enact H.R. 870 into law, this will not solve all of the fiscal problems on the island. Puerto Rico needs to implement structural reforms that will enhance job creation, increase economic growth, and attract investment to the island. The federal government can provide sound advice and expertise into how to carry out these reforms without increasing the financial burden on the residents of Puerto Rico, particularly poor and middle class residents. Further federal action is necessary to help address all of these issues. For the past 117 years, Puerto Rico has been treated as something less than the rest of our nation. It has been ignored, underfunded, and marginalized. The economic problems that Puerto Rico faces are directly correlated to its current territorial status. We are not going to solve the island's economic problems until and unless we solve the political status question. Currently, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico does not have equal access to federal programs, and its 3.6 million residents do not have the same rights and responsibilities as their fellow American citizens residing in the 50 states. Your leadership on this issue is crucial. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, José E. Serrano
07.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano announced that Union Community Health Center, Inc. (UCHC) has been awarded $704,167 in federal grants to expand its primary care programs and open a new center at 2016 Bronxdale Avenue. The funds were awarded through the Heath Resources and Services and Administration under the U.S Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Congressman Serrano supported the organization’s application for funding in a letter sent to HHS in September 2014. “For more than a century, Union Community Health Center has proved its dedication to providing quality health care to Bronx residents regardless of their ability to pay. Taking in consideration the community’s unique needs, UCHC has enacted effective health strategies and delivery models that have brought down existing barriers and expanded access to quality health care. This funding will help them reach more underserved Bronxites, improving their quality of life,” said Congressman Serrano. “With this additional funding UCHC will be able to substantially expand its work and deliver comprehensive primary and preventative care to thousands more low-income individuals in the Bronx.” wrote Congressman Serrano in his letter to HHS. “UCHC is grateful to Congressman Serrano for his continued support, which now includes helping to secure this generous grant and expand our capacity to provide high-quality health care to underserved residents of the Bronx,” said Dr. Douglas L. York, CEO of Union Community Health Center. “As one of the largest safety-net providers in New York City and one of the leaders in targeted health initiatives in the Bronx, UCHC’s mission continues to be to improve the health status of the medically underserved populations in our borough. UCHC will continue to work hard to break down barriers that are the root cause of health disparities, while advocating for the urgency we must place on improving health equity.” With more Bronx residents able to access health care insurance through the Affordable Care Act, the demand for health care has increased. In addition, there is still a population of Medicaid users and uninsured individuals who also need special attention. UCHC will use the $704,167 grant to create an additional site that will increase patient user capacity by 8%, which is about 2,500 new users, focused on primarily serving Medicaid users and uninsured individuals. The new center will provide comprehensive care to adults and children as well as offer specialty services. It is projected that the new site will have over 8,200 visits in its first year. Union Community Health Center currently provides care to 37,000 local residents at five sites in the Bronx. The new site will allow UCHC to serve more community residents with a full range of services including pediatrics, adult primary care, and integrative behavioral health services. Among other services that are critical toward building healthier communities, Union offers Rapid Care, an afterhours – walk-in- care- center available to patients evenings and weekends to address needs not considered an emergency; but still cannot wait until regular business hours. ###
07.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, a longtime advocate of normalizing U.S.-Cuba relations and ending the Cuba embargo, today released the following statement applauding President Obama’s announcement of a U.S.-Cuba agreement to reestablish diplomatic relations and reopen embassies in their counterparts’ capital: “I once again want to commend President Obama for his leadership on this issue. After more than five decades of broken diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba, today is certainly a historic day. As a long time advocate of changing our foreign policy towards Cuba, I am glad both nations were able to find enough common ground to move forward with this important step. I hope the negotiations continue bearing fruit as we move forward with restored diplomatic relations. Our previous Cuba policy has failed – for too long, it resulted in the isolation of the United States and damaged our standing in the region. Today’s announcement changes all that.” During his 25 years in Congress, Congressman Serrano has consistently advocated for a change in U.S.-Cuba relations and an end to the Cuba embargo, including changing Cuba’s designation as a state sponsor of terror. During his time in office, Serrano has introduced various pieces of legislation with respect to Cuba, including the Cuba Reconciliation Act, which repeals the U.S. embargo, and the Baseball Diplomacy Act. In 2009, Congressman Serrano inserted language in the House Appropriations bill that rolled back restrictions on family travel that were implemented by the Bush administration. He also worked to roll back restrictions on agricultural trade between the two nations in the same bill. Thanks to his efforts, the groundwork was laid for President Obama to take further action to expand family travel later that year. More recently, Serrano has fought against efforts in the Appropriations Committee to roll back many of the Cuba policy changes implemented by the President in December. ###
06.29.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano, the most senior Member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent, released the following statement in response to Puerto Rico’s economic crisis and inability to pay its debt: With yesterday’s announcement, we now know that Puerto Rico’s economic crisis has reached its limit. “I encourage all interested parties inside and outside the island to come together and jointly find solutions to get Puerto Rico on the path of long-term sustainable economic recovery. The federal government has an important role to play and I encourage the Obama Administration and Congress to give the island the attention it deserves. To start with, Congress should pass the Puerto Rico Chapter 9 Uniformity Act (H.R. 870) to provide the island’s government with the tools it needs to restructure parts of its debt under federal bankruptcy law. There also needs to be some fairness in how Puerto Rico’s health care system is treated by HHS. “As someone who has worked to ensure that the Treasury Department is taking an active role on Puerto Rico’s economic and fiscal problems, I also encourage the agency to continue its involvement by working with the island’s government. For the past two years, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill has carried report language that I authored, urging the Treasury Department to more fully engage with Puerto Rico on these issues. “Although we may differ on Puerto Rico’s political future, elected officials from New York have been united in our efforts to ensure that we find solutions to this crisis. I urge President Obama and members of Congress to come together to help a part of the United States whose economy is intimately linked to ours. There are also nearly 4 million U.S. citizens currently living in Puerto Rico, plus 4 million more living in the 50 states, who are affected directly and indirectly by this crisis. I encourage the government to give Puerto Rico’s economic crisis the attention it deserves.”
06.26.2015	Rep. Serrano, Sen. Schumer Advocated for this Extension in a Letter sent to the Secretary of Homeland Jeh Johnson WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded today the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s decision to extend the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) registration deadline for eligible individuals from Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone – the three ebola-affected nations. In a letter sent in May this year, Congressman Serrano and Senator Schumer, along with 9 other Members of the New York delegation, urged Secretary Jeh Johnson to extend the May 20, 2015 deadline to ensure everyone eligible was able to apply and take advantage of the policy. Members of the community had expressed concerns over the DHS’s lack of outreach to let people know about their eligibility and the still fragile situation in the region. With this announcement, the deadline has been extended from May 20, 2015, to Aug. 18, 2015. “This is great news for the people from Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone currently living in New York City and the rest of the United States who were not able to learn about and submit their applications for Temporary Protected Status previously. TPS is an important humanitarian tool, and this announcement will help provide relief for many individuals from ebola-affected nations who won’t be forced to return to a still fragile region. I am glad Secretary Johnson has heeded our call and extended the deadline, so that more people can take advantage of it. For those who qualify, make sure to submit your application by August 18,” said Congressman Serrano. “It’s good news that the TPS registration period was extended for ebola-wracked countries like Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. This critical extension will ensure that no one falls through the cracks while these countries are getting back on their feet following the ebola outbreak,” said Senator Schumer. More information on eligibility, how to register and costs of applying for the program from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services announcement: Eligibility To be eligible for TPS, you must demonstrate that you meet all eligibility criteria, including that you have been “continuously residing” in the United States since Nov. 20, 2014, and “continuously physically present” in the United States since Nov. 21, 2014. You must also undergo thorough security checks. Individuals with certain criminal records or who pose a threat to national security are not eligible for TPS. Additionally, you may apply for TPS even if you are a Liberian national currently covered under the two-year extension of Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) based on President Obama’s Sept. 26, 2014 memorandum. If you are a DED-covered Liberian national and you have an EAD or have applied for an EAD, you do not need to apply for another EAD related to this TPS designation. However, if you are granted TPS, you may request a TPS-related EAD at a later date as long as the TPS designation for Liberia remains in effect. Registering To register, you must submit: Form I-821, Application for Temporary Protected Status. The Form I-821 application fee (or a fee-waiver request). The biometrics services fee (or a fee-waiver request) if you are 14 years old or older. Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, regardless of whether you want an EAD. The Form I-765 application fee (or a fee-waiver request), but only if you want an EAD. If you do not want an EAD, no application fee is required. There is no Form I-765 fee for initial applicants under the age of 14, or 66 and over; these applicants may receive their initial EAD cards for free. Fees and Fee Waivers If you cannot pay the fee, you may request that we waive the Form I-821 application fee, Form I-765 application fee and biometrics services fee. However, you must file Form I-912, Request for Fee Waiver, or submit a written request. You must also send in supporting documentation with your fee-waiver request. We will reject your TPS application if you do not submit the required filing fees or a properly documented fee-waiver request. Additional information about TPS for Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone – including guidance on eligibility, the application process and where to file – is available at uscis.gov/tps. ###
06.26.2015	Washington, DC– Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), a longtime supporter of LGBT equal rights and member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, which advocates for LGBT equal rights, today released the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, which held that under the 14th amendment of the U.S. Constitution, states can’t prohibit same-sex marriage. The verdict follows another recent Supreme Court decision in favor of gay marriage where the Court let stand circuit court rulings in favor of marriage equality. “This is a major victory for the LGBT community, and the positive effect on the lives of millions of LGBT individuals and families cannot be overstated. Here in New York and 36 other states, LGBT couples already enjoy the right to marry, but unfortunately, millions nationwide are still prevented from marrying someone from their same sex simply due to uneven local laws and a lack of federal intervention on this matter. They end up suffering unfair emotional, legal, and financial consequences. Today’s Supreme Court decision finally prevents states across-the-board from banning gay marriage, thus ensuring marriage equality in all 50 states. There is still more to be done in the fight for LGBT equal rights and against discrimination, but today’s ruling will allow thousands of individuals to marry and live a more full life with the person they love. This is an important victory for equality.” ###
06.17.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – On Tuesday, June 16th, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan amendment to the FY2016 Intelligence Authorization Act to provide national security training grants to Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) of higher education to prepare students for careers in national security. The amendment was offered by Reps. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, José E. Serrano (D-the Bronx), and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL). The Crowley-Serrano-Curbelo amendment allows the Director of National Intelligence to provide grants to HSIs to offer advanced foreign language education and study abroad and cultural immersion programs to increase diversity in the national security and intelligence community. The goal is to prepare America’s fastest-growing minority for careers in national security. “From cybersecurity to counter-terrorism, careers in national security and intelligence are in-demand and are more important than ever given the challenges we face. These training grants will help ensure Hispanic students have the opportunities to explore these growing and critical fields, better prepare them for the jobs of tomorrow, and ensure that our intelligence community accurately reflects the diversity of the American people,” said Crowley. “The number of Hispanics and other underrepresented minorities in the national security and intelligence fields is too small. As the job opportunities and the importance of this field increase, we have to make sure that future generations of Hispanics are well prepared to compete for these opportunities. This amendment will help facilitate Hispanics’ access to a well-rounded education in national security matters through foreign language education and study abroad programs. Oftentimes, Hispanics don’t pursue these types of opportunities not for lack of interest, but rather simply because they don’t have the resources and support to do so. With this amendment, we are helping ensure that one of our government’s less diverse career tracks accurately reflects the ‘face’ of America in the future,” said Serrano. “This amendment will provide grants to Hispanic-serving institutions of higher education to offer advanced foreign language programs that are important to our intelligence community, giving these students both a traditional classroom setting and a first-hand perspective of the culture they are studying. I am proud to advocate for Hispanic-serving institutions, and will strive to provide them the opportunity to train their students so they can serve our country. I thank my colleague from New York for allowing me to join in leading on this important issue,”said Curbelo. The members have long supported grant opportunities for HSIs. In May, Crowley, Serrano, and Curbelo, along with Reps. Ben Ray Luján (D-NM) and Will Hurd (R-TX), successfully led an amendment to the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to require the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a grant program to support undergraduate STEM education at HSIs. The amendment was the latest move in the longstanding effort to establish this program, including recent legislation introduced by Serrano, Crowley, and Luján in April. ###
06.15.2015	Badillo Was the First Puerto Rican Congressman in U.S. History Badillo Also Served as Bronx Borough President & NYC Deputy Mayor under Ed Koch Legislation Was Introduced by Rep. Serrano, along with Reps. Rangel & Crowley in the House. Legislation now needs to be approved in the Senate. Washington, D.C. – Legislation to rename the Morrisania Post Office in the Bronx in honor of Puerto Rican trailblazer Herman Badillo (H.R. 1350) was approved in the U.S. House of Representatives today by voice vote. Click here for a video of Congressman Serrano speaking on the House floor on H.R. 1350 and Herman Badillo. Herman Badillo was the first Puerto Rican city commissioner and borough president, and the first Congressman to have been born in Puerto Rico. The legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressmen Serrano, Rangel and Crowley, and was eventually cosponsored by the entire New York delegation. Senators Schumer and Gillibrand introduced identical legislation in the Senate. At the local level, Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. was instrumental in the process, especially in identifying an appropriate location for the recognition. “As the sponsor of this legislation in the House of Representatives, I am immensely proud and excited to see this bill one step closer to becoming law. Herman Badillo was a trailblazer in every sense of the word, and many of us in Bronx politics would not be where we are today if it weren’t for his leadership and support. His work was instrumental in Puerto Ricans’ civic participation both at the local and national level, and helped bring attention to issues of concern to the community. Renaming the Morrisana Post Office, a historic building in the Bronx, is a fitting tribute that will help ensure his legacy and memory live on,” said Congressman Serrano. "Our great friend Herman Badillo was a fixture in New York City politics for nearly four decades, championing civil rights, jobs, housing and educational reform. Even after his passing, he continues to be a role model for Puerto Ricans and a true testament to the American Dream. I am very proud to have worked with Reps. Serrano and Crowley in urging Congress to name a post office in honor of Herman to preserve and honor his legacy in the Bronx," said Rep. Rangel. “Herman Badillo’s contributions to the Bronx, the City of New York and our country as a whole, cannot be overstated,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “Renaming the Morrisania branch after Herman would be a fitting tribute to a man who was a true pioneer and an inspiration to so many, including myself. I’m proud to have joined Congressmen Serrano and Rangel in the effort to ensure Herman’s memory and legacy are honored.” Born in Puerto Rico in 1929, Badillo became an orphan at an early age after his father and mother passed away of tuberculosis. When he was 11 years old, Badillo moved to the United States , eventually settling down in New York. In 1951, Badillo graduated with honors from City College. He then went on to study law at Brooklyn Law School, where he was class valedictorian in 1954. Badillo was elected Bronx Borough President in 1965. Only 5 years later, in 1970, Badillo was elected to Congress, becoming the first Puerto Rico born United States representative. In addition, Badillo served as New York City Deputy Mayor under Mayor Koch and head of the CUNY Board of Trustees.
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano voted against the Trade Act of 2015 (H.R. 1314) in a series of votes on the House floor. The Trade Act of 2015 authorizes trade promotion authority (TPA), giving the President the power to negotiate a free trade agreement with little input from Congress. It also includes trade adjustment legislation (TAA), which Serrano opposed in a separate vote due to concerns with the low amount of funding allocated for the program and cuts to Medicare used to pay for it, as well as the exclusion of public sector workers from it. “As our government negotiates the largest trade agreement in history, we must take into consideration the needs of those who will be affected by a bad free trade agreement. Granting the President authority to negotiate a trade agreement of this magnitude, with equally enormous implications, will take away from Congress, and the people we represent, the ability to shape the final product. Past free trade agreements negotiated under fast track powers have not lived up to the promises made to protect workers, our economy, and the environment. We have witnessed the devastating effects that agreements like NAFTA have had on local communities– leaving many out of work and hurting consumers and the environment. We need to ensure any trade agreement that is negotiated helps level the playing field and don’t contribute to further income inequality and job displacement, and for that Congress’ input is vital. “We also must ensure the trade adjustment program has the funds needed to adequately help displaced workers suffering the effects of free trade and globalization. While I support the program, I couldn’t vote in favor of legislation that actually reduces overall funding for TAA and pays for it by taking funds from Medicare – a double whammy for hard working Americans. Trade is important for our economic growth and prosperity, but we need to have a full debate in Congress about the TPP to ensure it is a fair trade agreement that represents economic opportunity for everyone, not just a few large corporations and special interests,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. ###
06.04.2015	*For spanish version scroll down. Versión en español abajo.* Washington, DC—Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi and Congressman José E. Serrano of New York announced today that the House Appropriations Committee has approved language that the two representatives proposed to accelerate the pace of the federal government’s cleanup of the island municipalities of Culebra and Vieques. The language is included in the Committee report accompanying the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations Act. The approved language notes that the Appropriations Committee recently received a report from the Department of Defense that details the Department’s plans for completing the cleanup of contaminated areas on both Culebra and Vieques, and that includes a description of the types of weapons and the estimated amount of military ordnance that were used on both islands. Submission of this report by the Department was required by language inserted in the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations Act by Pierluisi and Serrano, as part of their broader efforts to ensure that there is a full and transparent historic record on this subject. In the report language approved this week, the Committee states that it “remains skeptical about the pace of environmental remediation on the islands.” As a result, the Committee directs the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and Environment, the top federal official charged with oversight of the Department’s environmental restoration program, to brief the Committee within 90 days of the enactment of this bill. In that briefing, the Deputy Under Secretary will be required to advise the Committee on “the timeline associated with the completion of surface clearance removal actions, site investigations, and subsequent remedial actions to address hazards not previously addressed by the initial removal actions.” “The swift and comprehensive completion of the cleanup of the Navy’s former training sites on Culebra and Vieques has been, and will remain, one of my top priorities in Congress. It is important for the safety of the public and the well-being of our environment, as well as for the tourism industry that is so critical to the local economy of each island. The report language that Congressman Serrano and I included in this year’s Defense Appropriations Act serves to keep the pressure on the Department of Defense to fulfill its responsibility to clean up Culebra and Vieques,” said Pierluisi. “Despite significant progress in recent years, the extent and pace of cleanup on the islands of Vieques and Culebra is concerning. This language will help speed up the cleanup by requiring the Department of Defense to establish and report back to the Appropriations Committee with a clear timeline to fully decontaminate the islands. Its successful inclusion in the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill report is an important victory in our efforts to help restore Vieques and Culebra to all their natural beauty and splendor,” said Congressman Serrano, a senior Member of the Appropriations Committee. In December 2014, as a result of the multiple-year efforts of the Resident Commissioner and Congressman Serrano, Congress approved legislation that requires the Department of Defense to fund the removal of dangerous military munitions from the publicly-accessible areas on the Northwest Peninsula of Culebra. This was an historic achievement that, like most accomplishments of great magnitude, was only possible because of teamwork, with Pierluisi and Serrano working closely with Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York to enact the bill into law. The relevant report language approved by the House Appropriations Committee this week is as follows: VIEQUES AND CULEBRA ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION The Committee recently received a report from the Secretary of the Navy that detailed a plan for completing clean-up of contaminated areas of Vieques and Culebra. The report included the types of weapons that were deployed on these islands and the estimated amount of ordnance used at both sites. After reviewing the report, the Committee remains skeptical about the pace of environmental remediation on the islands. The Committee directs the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment) to brief the Committee not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act on the timeline associated with the completion of surface clearance removal actions, site investigations, and subsequent remedial actions to address hazards not previously addressed by the initial removal actions. ### Pierluisi y Serrano Logran Avance en lo Relacionado a Limpieza Federal de Vieques y Culebra Washington, DC - El Comisionado Residente en Washington, Pedro Pierluisi, y el Congresista José E. Serrano de Nueva York anunciaron hoy que la Comisión de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes ha aprobado un lenguaje que propusieron para acelerar el ritmo de la limpieza del gobierno federal de las islas municipios de Vieques y Culebra. El lenguaje se incluye en el informe de la Comisión que acompaña a la Ley de Asignaciones de Defensa del año fiscal 2016. El lenguaje aprobado señala que la Comisión de Asignaciones recientemente recibió un informe del Departamento de Defensa que detalla los planes del Departamento para completar la limpieza de las zonas contaminadas, tanto en Culebra como en Vieques, y que incluye una descripción de los tipos de armas y la cantidad estimada de municiones militares que fueron utilizadas en ambas islas. La presentación de este informe por el Departamento fue requerido por el lenguaje presentado en la Ley de Asignaciones de Defensa del año fiscal 2015 liderado por Pierluisi y Serrano como parte de sus esfuerzos más amplios para garantizar que exista un registro histórico completo y transparente sobre este tema. En el lenguaje del informe aprobado esta semana, la Comisión afirma que "sigue siendo escéptico sobre el ritmo de recuperación ambiental en las islas." Como resultado, la Comisión ordena al Subsecretario Adjunto de Defensa para Instalaciones y Medio Ambiente, el funcionario federal más alto encargado de la supervisión del programa de restauración ambiental del Departamento, a reunirse con la Comisión dentro de los 90 días de la promulgación de esta ley. En esa reunión, el Subsecretario Adjunto tendrá que asesorar a la Comisión sobre “el tiempo que tomará realizar acciones de remoción de superficie, las investigaciones del sitio, y acciones correctivas posteriores para hacer frente a los riesgos no contemplados anteriormente por las acciones iniciales de la remoción”. “La finalización rápida y completa de la limpieza de los antiguos sitios de entrenamiento de la Marina en Vieques y Culebra ha sido, y seguirá siendo, una de mis principales prioridades en el Congreso. Es importante para la seguridad del público y el bienestar de nuestro medio ambiente, así como para la industria del turismo que es tan importante para la economía local de cada isla. El lenguaje del informe que el Congresista Serrano y yo incluimos en la Ley de Asignaciones de Defensa de este año sirve para mantener la presión sobre el Departamento de Defensa para que cumpla con su responsabilidad de limpiar las islas de Vieques y Culebra", dijo Pierluisi. “A pesar del progreso que se ha tenido en años recientes, el ritmo al que se están limpiando las islas de Vieques y Culebra son preocupantes. Este lenguaje ayudará a agilizar los esfuerzos de limpieza al requerirle al Departamento de Defensa establecer y reportar a la Comisión de Asignaciones un plazo de tiempo para descontaminar completamente las islas. El que se haya logrado incluir en la Ley de Asignaciones de Defensa del año fiscal 2016 es otra victoria importante en nuestros esfuerzos para devolverle a Vieques y Culebra toda su belleza y esplendor,” dijo el Congresista Serrano, miembro de alto rango de la Comisión de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos. En diciembre de 2014, como resultado de los esfuerzos del Comisionado Residente y el Congresista Serrano a través de los años, el Congreso aprobó una ley que requiere que el Departamento de Defensa financie la remoción de municiones militares peligrosas de las zonas accesibles al público en la península del noroeste de Culebra. Este fue un logro histórico que, como la mayoría de los logros de gran magnitud, sólo fue posible gracias al trabajo en equipo, con Pierluisi y Serrano trabajando en estrecha colaboración con el senador Richard Blumenthal de Connecticut y la senadora Kirsten Gillibrand de Nueva York para promulgar el proyecto de ley. El lenguaje relevante del informe aprobado por la Comisión de Asignaciones de la Cámara esta semana es el siguiente: VIEQUES AND CULEBRA ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION The Committee recently received a report from the Secretary of the Navy that detailed a plan for completing clean-up of contaminated areas of Vieques and Culebra. The report included the types of weapons that were deployed on these islands and the estimated amount of ordnance used at both sites. After reviewing the report, the Committee remains skeptical about the pace of environmental remediation on the islands. The Committee directs the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment) to brief the Committee not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act on the timeline associated with the completion of surface clearance removal actions, site investigations, and subsequent remedial actions to address hazards not previously addressed by the initial removal actions. El congresista José E. Serrano, el Latino Demócrata de más años de servicio en el Congreso actualmente, representa el Bronx desde el 1990. ###
05.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in strong support of Secretary of State John Kerry’s announcement removing Cuba from the list of State Sponsors of Terrorism effective today: “Today’s removal of Cuba from the State’s Department list of state sponsors of terrorism removes one more obstacle in the normalization of relations with our neighbors in the Caribbean. Countless State Department reports have established that Cuba does not belong on a list of terrorist states and its designation as such has only hindered our ability to engage fruitfully with the Cuban government and the Cuban people, while hurting our relations with our neighbors in the Western Hemisphere and with the rest of the world. “This change removes one of greatest barriers to the establishment of diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Cuba. It will also help Cuban families on the island and in the United States and allow American companies and individuals to do business with the island more easily, promoting greater economic opportunity for both Americans and Cubans. “As one of the few voices in Congress that has publicly advocated for this change for decades, I commend President Obama and Secretary Kerry for taking this bold step and continuing to show true leadership on this issue. With the road almost cleared for the establishment of diplomatic relations with the island, now it’s our turn in Congress to fully lift the travel ban and trade embargo against Cuba. It is time for Republicans to recognize that we are more influential and effective by engaging rather than isolating other countries. For the past 55 years instead of isolating Cuba, we have only isolated ourselves.” During his 25 years in Congress, Congressman Serrano has consistently advocated for a change in U.S.-Cuba relations and an end to the Cuba embargo, including changing Cuba’s designation as a state sponsor of terror. Throughout the years he has introduced various pieces of legislation with respect to Cuba, including the Cuba Reconciliation Act, which repeals the U.S. embargo, and the Baseball Diplomacy Act. In 2009, Congressman Serrano inserted language in the House Appropriations bill that rolled back the restrictions on family travel that were implemented by the Bush administration. He also worked to roll back restrictions on agricultural trade between the two nations in the same bill. Thanks to his efforts, the groundwork was laid for President Obama to take further action to expand family travel later that year. More recently, he has successfully fought against attempts to reinstate more restrictive travel policies in the Appropriations process. ###
05.22.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano was presented this week with the CDFI Congressional Champion Award by the Opportunity Finance Network for his work in support of Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and the financial empowerment of low-income individuals and communities. Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-Fla.), Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), and Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) were also presented with the award this year. "As both Chairman and Ranking Member of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, I have consistently made it a priority to increase funding for the CDFI Fund for one simple reason - CDFIs fill a void in financial services and deliver tangible results to underserved communities all across the nation,” said Congressman Serrano. “CDFIs are crucial in places like the Bronx and their investments have spurred economic development, made it possible for many to buy their first home or start their business, and helped finance the creation of important community housing and health care facilities. It's an honor to receive the CDFI Congressional Champion Award, and I will continue supporting these important institutions in Congress.” CAPTION: Congressman Serrano (center) stands with Lori Chatman, President of the Enterprise Community Loan Fund (left) and Mark Pinsky, President and CEO of the Opportunity Finance Network (right) after receiving the 2015 CDFI Congressional Champion Award. (5/19/2015) Congressman Serrano currently serves as Ranking Member of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund). During his tenure as both Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, he has more than quadrupled funding for the CDFI Fund. In 2007, when he was elected chairman of the Chairman of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund) was funded at $54.5 million, and the Bush Administration was attempting to reduce funding even further. Over the next four years, Congressman Serrano, along with Senator Durbin in the Senate side, increased funding for the program to $246.75 million. That funding level that has largely been maintained in recent years, and supplemented with the creation and authorization of the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program. CDFIs help bridge the financial services gap in underserved communities like the Bronx, helping ensure that local businesses and non-profits have the ability to expand and grow, and that individuals have access to mainstream financial services. In the Bronx alone, CDFIs have used federal funding to provide more than 700 loans, worth more than $167 million dollars, to businesses, consumers, and non-profits over the years. This financial support has helped create and expand some of the community's most important priorities- including affordable housing, health care services, and small businesses. In addition, the CDFI program is a great resource for drawing in additional private money and investment to underserved communities. Statistics show that for every dollar of federal funding through the CDFI program, awardees are able to leverage $13 dollars in private investment. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – La Cámara de Representantes aprobó el miércoles 20 de mayo una enmienda bipartidista a la reautorización del Proyecto de Ley América COMPETES para expandir el acceso a la educación en las áreas STEM (ciencias, tecnología, ingeniería, y matemáticas por sus siglas en inglés) en las instituciones de educación superior HSI (hispanic serving institutions por sus siglas en inglés). La enmienda fue presentada por los Congresistas Joe Crowley (D-el Bronx), vicepresidente del Caucus Demócrata y José E. Serrano (D- el Bronx), junto a los Congresistas Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Will Hurd (R-TX), y Carlos Curbelo (R-FL). Específicamente, la enmienda requiere a la Fundación Nacional de la Ciencias (NSF por sus siglas en inglés) establecer un programa de subvenciones para apoyar y promover la educación en las áreas STEM de estudiantes universitarios de bachillerato en instituciones HSI. De esta forma, las misma busca promover el que más estudiantes de grupos minoritarios, como estudiantes universitarios Hispanos, puedan prepararse y obtener profesiones en los campos STEM, cruciales para la competitividad del país en una economía global. La enmienda representa el esfuerzo más reciente de establecer este programa. Serrano, Crowley y Luján recientemente también presentaron un proyecto de ley con el mismo propósito. “Un programa enfocado en las instituciones HSI en la Fundación Nacional de las Ciencias es el primer paso necesario para promover el que los estudiantes Hispanos puedan alcanzar el lugar que merecen en los campos STEM,” dijo Crowley. “Construyendo sobre los esfuerzos de los últimos 8 años para exhortar a la Fundación a que establezca este programa, nuestra enmienda deja claro el apoyo bipartidista que existe a favor de expandir el acceso a la educación STEM. “Como la minoría más grande en la nación, tenemos que asegurar que los Hispanos tengan la oportunidad y estén preparados para tomar los trabajos STEM del futuro. Actualmente, muy pocos hispanos entran en estos campos durante su preparación universitaria. Al crear una fuente de fondos para las instituciones universitarias que sirven a hispanos, esta enmienda ayudara a expandir las oportunidades para los estudiantes hispanos en las áreas STEM. Las ciencias, tecnología, ingeniería, y matemáticas son vitales para la competitividad global de los Estados Unidos y la única forma de garantizar que sigamos siendo líderes en estos campos en un futuro es invirtiendo en la educación de nuestras futuras generaciones,”dijo Serrano. ###
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, May 20, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan amendment to the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act calling for expanding access to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education at Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) of higher education. The amendment was offered by Reps. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, and José E. Serrano (D-the Bronx), as well as Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Will Hurd (R-TX), and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL). The amendment requires the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a grant program to support undergraduate STEM education at HSIs. Encouraging underrepresented minorities, such as Hispanic students, to enter STEM fields is crucial for our country to remain competitive in today’s global economy. The amendment is the latest move in the longstanding effort to establish this program, including recent legislation introduced by Serrano, Crowley, and Luján in April. “A dedicated grant program for HSIs at the National Science Foundation is a critical first step in helping Hispanic students reach their rightful place in the STEM fields,” said Crowley. “Building upon efforts I have made over the past 8 years to urge the NSF to establish this program, our amendment makes clear the strong, bipartisan support for expanding access to STEM education.” “As the largest minority in our nation, we need to ensure that Hispanics have the opportunity and are prepared to take the STEM jobs of tomorrow. Right now, far too few Hispanics enter these important fields of study in college. By creating a specific stream of funding for Hispanic Serving Institutions, this amendment will help expand opportunities for Hispanic students in the STEM fields. STEM is vital for the United States’ global competitiveness, and the only way we can guarantee that our country will continue leading the way is by investing in the education of our future generations,” said Serrano. ###
05.18.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement in celebration of Head Start’s 50th Anniversary: “Nothing is more important to a child’s healthy development than quality early education. And no other government initiative is as vital as Head Start in making sure that every American family, regardless of its economic or social background, can raise healthy kids. Today we celebrate an important milestone in Head Start’s history: 50 years of providing families in underserved communities with high-quality early childhood education, health, and nutrition services. “Over 30 million working families have been able to send their children to preschool and take better care of them thanks to Head Start’s work during the past five decades. All throughout the nation, Head Start programs provide children with the foundation they need to succeed in school and later on in life. Their work is crucial in the Bronx, where countless families and children have benefited over the years from the dedicated staff and teachers who work with them on a daily basis. Last year alone, more than 5,600 people in the Bronx were served by a Head Start program. “Unfortunately, the Republican budget plans to cut more funds from Head Start, threatening its ability to continue providing services to our neediest families. Congress needs to protect funding for Head Start and guarantee that all of our children have access to a well-rounded education from an early age. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to ensure this important program is properly funded.” ### ###
05.15.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Serrano and Senator Schumer led several of their colleagues in sending a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) asking for an extension of the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) deadline for eligible individuals from Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. DHS announced the availability of Temporary Protected Status for individuals from these three nations as part of the response to the ebola outbreak last year. The protection application deadline is next week, May 20, 2015. Members of the community, however, have expressed concern over the fact that DHS has not done enough to reach out to people to let them know about this protection and their eligibility as the situation in the region remains fragile. “With the registration deadline approaching next week, the Department of Homeland Security has not done enough to let individuals from ebola-stricken nations know about their eligibility for Temporary Protected Status or how to apply. That is why we are asking the Department to increase its outreach efforts and extend the deadline. The situation in the region remains fragile and they are not prepared to welcome a surge of residents back to their shores. We must ensure that everyone who is eligible for TPS knows about it and is able to apply,” said Congressman Serrano. “This is a compassionate and commonsense action that will help individuals residing here in the states whose visas may expire and may otherwise be required to return home to ebola-wracked Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. The U.S. should extend the TPS registration period to ensure that no one falls through the cracks while these countries are getting back on their feet following the ebola outbreak,” said Senator Schumer. The letter was signed by both New York Senators, and by eight New York Members of the House of Representatives. FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER: May 15, 2015 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Nebraska Avenue Complex 3801 Nebraska Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson, We write to request that you extend the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) registration period for eligible nationals of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea residing in the United States and that you increase community outreach to eligible registrants. The 2014 ebola outbreak shocked and devastated communities throughout these West African nations. The entire world watched as thousands of victims tragically succumbed to this deadly disease. The death toll in the region has now surpassed 11,000. Thanks to the forceful leadership of President Obama, and the actions of many non-governmental organizations, the international community and the impacted nations, progress has been made. We were relieved by the World Health Organization’s recent declaration that the outbreak has ended in Liberia, but regional governments must remain vigilant, even with scarce resources, to contain and eventually eradicate this scourge. As always, our country answered the call for help with compassion and generosity. We could not be prouder of the health care workers that risked their lives to help others during this crisis, and all who coordinated the international response. Under your leadership, the Department of Homeland Security responded nimbly during this crisis: by protecting the American people from the spread of ebola at our ports and contributing to relief efforts through your November 2014 TPS designation for Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. As you know, TPS is a temporary immigration benefit granted when ongoing civil conflict or an environmental disaster prevents individuals from returning safely to their home countries. We support your decision to grant this designation as a humane response to the ebola outbreak. Many of these people reside in our home state of New York, and their chance to register for this important protection ends on May 20. Unfortunately, our constituents have reason to believe that a large number of eligible community members have not been made aware of the protection they might receive. Furthermore, it is our understanding that more could be done to reach those who speak only French or another non-English language. We should not run the risk that otherwise eligible people might fall through the cracks. The situation in the region remains fragile, as evidenced by numerous past TPS designations granted to Liberia and Sierra Leone. These countries are not prepared to welcome a surge of residents back to their shores, so we must ensure that everyone who is eligible for TPS knows it. For these reasons, we respectfully request that you extend the TPS registration period for eligible nationals from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea and increase culturally competent outreach to eligible members of these communities. Sincerely, Charles E. Schumer José E. Serrano United States Senator Member of Congress ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
05.15.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano was presented this week with the Association of Zoos and Aquariums ‘Standing Tall for Zoos and Aquariums’ Award for his work in support of these institutions and nature conservancy all across the United States, in particular the Wildlife Conservation Society’s Bronx Zoo. “I am truly honored to receive the ‘Standing Tall for Zoos and Aquariums’ Award. Zoos and Aquariums not only serve as important recreational and educational sites, they play a key role in research and conservation efforts. We can’t underestimate their value and need to continue investing in and supporting their work. In the Bronx, the Wildlife Conservation Society’s Bronx Zoo has played an instrumental role in the cleaning and restoration of the Bronx River. Thanks to their work, Bronx residents enjoy today beautiful open green spaces and a cleaner environment right in the middle of an urban setting,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. CAPTION: Congressman Serrano is presented with the 2015 ‘Standing Tall for Zoos and Aquariums Award’ by Jennifer Keaton, Vice President for Congressional Affairs of the Association of Zoos & Aquariums. (5/13/2015) CAPTION: The 2015 ‘Standing Tall for Zoos and Aquariums’ Award presented to Congressman José E. Serrano for his work in support of zoos and aquariums. (3/14/2015) Past recipients of the ‘Standing Tall for Zoos and Aquariums Award’ include Representatives Lipinski, Capps, and Bachus, as well as Senators Mikulski, Moran, and Wicker.
05.06.2015	The Bronx, NY – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today announced $130,000 in federal funding from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) for six arts and cultural organizations in the Bronx that will be doing work in the 15th Congressional district. The six organizations are: the Bronx Council on the Arts, the Bronx Documentary Center, Dancing in the Street, Eugenio Maria de Hostos Community College Foundation, the Pregones Touring Puerto Rican Theatre Collection, and the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation. “Arts and culture projects enrich our community and allow our artists and performers to develop their talents and showcase their creative work. They also serve as an important tourism magnet and job creator. This federal funding will help make possible the successful completion of six unique projects in a wide range of areas. Many of these programs will be free to the public, giving local residents the opportunity to enjoy engaging performances at no cost,” said Congressman Serrano. “Our community artists and cultural organizations have so much to offer, and play a critical role in preserving and developing our community's cultural identity. The National Endowment for the Arts’ investment in the Bronx announced today will allow them to continue flourishing and developing quality programming for residents and visitors. I congratulate all of the recipients of this award.” The funding will be distributed as follows: Bronx Council on the Arts, Inc. - $25,000 To support a professional development series of workshops. The project will elevate the quality of submissions by Bronx artists for fellowships and grants and contribute to the health of arts and culture in the Bronx in general. Additionally, the series will connect artists with professionals in their fields who will provide specific advice and technical assistance about how to succeed in their disciplines. The eight-part series comprising free presentations will be geared to reaching the filmmaking, literary, theater, visual arts, and performance communities, as well as small businesses. Bronx Documentary Center Inc - $15,000 To support a documentary photography exhibition series and related public programming. The series will present works by photographers, filmmakers, and photojournalists who deal with the themes of justice, education, and social change. Selected photographers may include Hiram Maristany, Kadir Van Louhizen, and Eugene Richards. Film screenings, artist presentations, and panel talks will be offered to stimulate debate and discussion. A specific curriculum will be developed to address critical thinking skills related to documentary photography. Exhibition tours will be offered to local middle schools, high schools, and community groups. Dancing in the Street, Inc. - $20,000 To support Dancing through the Bronx, a festival of free performances that will engage diverse neighborhoods in the Bronx. The festival will take place at Wave Hill, Hayden Lord Park, Owen Dolen Park, and Roberto Clemente Plaza. The program will feature "Bolero Bronx," a site adaptive version of Larry Keigwin's Bolero project, featuring Keigwin + Company dancers and community members. Other project components will include Latin dance with live music, site-specific dances, and a culminating salsa dance party. Artists under consideration for the Latin dance component include Frank Muhel, Eddie Torres, Jr., and Danza Fiesta. Choreographers under consideration to create site-specific dances include Reggie Wilson, Wally Cardona, Nora Chipaumire, and Paloma McGregor. Emerging or mid-career choreographers will be commissioned for as many as five site-specific performances that will take place during continuous loops in the gardens of Wave Hill. Eugenio Maria de Hostos Community College Foundation - $30,000 To support BomPlenazo, Ninth Biennial of Afro-Puerto Rican Culture. The festival will include a series of concerts featuring dancers and musicians from New York City and Puerto Rico. The event also will feature workshops for percussion, singing, dance, and a special workshop for children. Also planned are a series of lectures, demonstrations, and films exploring the evolution of "bomba" and "plena," percussion-driven musical traditions from Puerto Rico, NEA Heritage Fellow Juan Gutierrez will participate as both a performer and lecturer. Pregones Touring Puerto Rican Theatre Collection, Inc. - $30,000 To support a production of "The Bolero Was My Downfall," an English-language translation of an original ensemble play with music. Originally produced in Spanish and adapted from a story by Puerto Rican author Manuel Ramos Otero, the work tells the story of an aging transvestite and convicted murderer serving out the last days of a prison sentence. Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation - $10,000 To support the Bronx Music Heritage Center's Living Legends Performance Series. Concerts at venues in the Bronx, such as The Hostos Center for the Arts & Culture, will honor and celebrate master Bronx musicians for outstanding contributions to their artistic field and community as artists, educators, activists and advocates. Each concert will include an onstage interview and a musical performance, which will either feature or be curated by the respective honoree. Previous honorees include DJ Kool Herc, jazz pianist Bertha Hope, and Latin jazz bassist Andy Gonzalez. ###
05.05.2015	Non-profit Unveiled at Lehman College in the Bronx The Bronx, NY – US Congressman Jose E. Serrano joined President Barack Obama, other elected officials, advocates and public figures in the Bronx, NY at the launch of the My Brother’s Keeper’s Alliance, a new non-profit that will build on the work of the White House’s My Brother’s Keepers initiative to expand opportunity for men of color. The organization will be led by Joe Echevarria, former CEO of Deloitte LLP, who was born and raised in the South Bronx. “In spite of all the progress we have made in expanding minorities’ access to equal opportunity in recent decades, our men and women of color continue facing persistent challenges that prevent them from reaching their full potential. One group is disproportionally impacted by this reality and consistently faces opportunity and achievement gaps in comparison to other ethnic groups – boys and men of color. From education to employment to addressing justice issues, there is an environment that young African-American and Latino men face that is starkly different than many of their peers. “As recent events in different parts of our nation and as data shows, we need to do more to level the playing field for African-American and Latino men in this country by supporting their development, supporting them through every important milestone of their life, and making sure they have access to the resources, support, and opportunities they need to thrive, succeed and give back to their communities. This is crucial to the success of our neighborhoods in the South Bronx, where far too many don’t have access to the opportunities that exist just a few miles away. The My Brother’s Keeper Alliance is a chance to invest and change the lives of millions of boys and young men of color. “The My Brother’s Keeper Alliance will help expand the work started by the original initiative to address these problems from the root and close these gaps once and for all by supporting young men from cradle through career. This effort is not only an investment in our youth, it is an investment in stronger communities and in a stronger America. First launched by President Obama in 2014, the My Brother’s Keeper initiative is a public-private partnership aimed at addressing the barriers that keep young men of color from accessing equality of opportunity and achieving their goals. When the initiative was first unveiled, grant makers pledged more $200 million in funding through special programs over the span of five years. For the non-profit facet launched yesterday, private donors have already committed to donating $80 million to support the effort. For more information about the White House’s My Brother’s Keeper Initiative visit:https://www.whitehouse.gov/my-brothers-keeper White House Fact Sheet on the My Brother’s Keeper Alliance: My Brother’s Keeper Alliance Fact Sheet Today, My Brother's Keeper Alliance, a new independent nonprofit, will launch at an event being held at Lehman College in the Bronx, NY. President Obama will give remarks during the event and participate in a roundtable discussion with young men from New York and across the country. In February 2014, the President launched the My Brother’s Keeper initiative to address persistent opportunity gaps faced by boys and young men of color and ensure all youth can reach their full potential. The initiative led to many conversations among leaders across sectors about the need to create a holistic, cross sector approach to address a range of challenges particularly affecting boys and young men of color. There has been a growing sentiment among business leaders to not only engage in productive conversations, but to also significantly increase action being taken to address inequities these young people face. Joe Echevarria heard the President's call to action and has been leading the effort to form MBK Alliance with a group of like-minded peers. This new, independent private sector effort is an opportunity to not only elevate the conversation, but utilize strategic, evidence-based interventions from community, private, and social enterprise partners that tackle the achievement gaps from cradle to career. The Challenge Throughout American history, there have been significant opportunity and achievement gaps between boys and young men of color and their peers. Among African American and Hispanic males between ages 16 and 24, as much as 25 percent are considered disconnected – meaning they are neither in school nor employed. With poor education outcomes, lesser career skills and lower rates of employment, these young men face tougher odds in trying to reach their full potential. Despite being one of the fastest-growing population segments, the American dream is largely out of reach for them. Closing these gaps will require a sustained long-term effort, requiring input from both the public and private sectors as we prepare for a new American century. Why the Private Sector is Taking on This Mission As the nation grows more diverse, businesses must evolve to address the needs of changing demographics. Labor projections suggest that by 2018, U.S. employers will need 22 million new workers with a post-secondary education – and will have only 19 million available. By 2020, the majority of Americans under the age of 18 will be persons of color. As it stands, the opportunity gap among boys and young men of color is a burden to the American economy: · A single disconnected young man costs society nearly $1 million over his lifetime. · High school graduates pay more taxes, draw less from social welfare programs and are less likely to commit crimes than drop-outs. · Research shows that closing the achievement gap between young men of color and their peers could increase the annual GDP by as much as $2.1 trillion. The opportunity and achievement gap is both a challenge and a chance for innovative solutions. As our national demographics continue to evolve, interventions to improve education, career skills and achievement for boys and young men of color will be critical to the development of a skilled, sustainable workforce for the 21st century. What Will My Brother’s Keeper Alliance Do? In catalyzing a national ecosystem of support to help boys and young men of color, MBK Alliance will support program interventions targeting six key life milestones: 1. Entering School Ready to Learn (Early Childhood) 2. Reading at Grade Level by Third Grade (Middle Childhood) 3. Graduating from High School Ready for College and Career (Adolescence) 4. Completing Post-Secondary Education or Training (Adulthood Transition) 5. Successfully Entering the Workforce (Adulthood) 6. Reducing Violence and Providing a Second Chance (Throughout Life) With commitments to date totaling over $80 million, MBK Alliance will start by: · Playbook for Corporations and Businesses – MBK Alliance developed a comprehensive guide to mobilize the private sector in addressing key obstacles facing young men of color; · Innovation Grants – MBK Alliance will disperse up to $7 million in grants to programs and organizations with proven, innovative intervention programs; and · Community Grants Competition – MBK Alliance will create a $15-25 million grants competition to reward up to nine communities with $3 million to build local infrastructure and capacity. My Brother’s Keeper Alliance Leadership MBK Alliance includes a diverse group of leaders that include CEOs from Fortune 50 companies, high-profile entertainers, leading nonprofits and current and former government officials. · Board and Leadership Team: o Joe Echevarria, Chairman and CEO, My Brother's Keeper Alliance o Alice Kwan, Principal, Deloitte Consulting LLP o Alonzo Mourning, Former NBA Player, Miami Heat o Darryl Brown, President Americas Global Corporate Payments, American Express o David Williams, Public Policy, Government Affairs and Corporate Citizenship Leader, Deloitte LLP o Debra Lee, CEO, BET o George Logothetis, Chairman and CEO, The Libra Group o The Honorable Jim Shelton, Former Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education o John Legend, Honorary Chairman, My Brother’s Keeper Alliance; Founder, The Show Me Campaign o John Rogers, Chairman and CEO, Ariel Investments o Juan Sabater, Managing Director of Idea Generation and Execution, Valor Equity Partners o Lori Dickerson Fouché, CEO, Prudential Group Insurance o Marcelo Claure, CEO, Sprint o Marisa Lee, Managing Director, My Brother's Keeper Alliance o Robert Raben, Founder/President, The Raben Group o Rosalind Brewer, CEO, Sam's Club o Thomas Tull, CEO, Legendary Entertainment o Toni Cook Bush, Executive Vice President and Global Head of Government Affairs, News Corporation o Tony West, EVP of Government Affairs, PepsiCo o Walter Isaacson, CEO, Aspen Institute · Advisory Council: o Allan Ludgate, Director, Deloitte Consulting o Angela Glover Blackwell, Founder and CEO, PolicyLink o Anne Williams-Isom, CEO, Harlem Children's Zone o Brandon Yellowbird-Stevens, Councilmen Oneida Tribe of Wisconsin o Bryan Stevenson, Founder and Executive Director, Equal Justice Initiative o Carol Lewis, Founder, Ground Control Parenting o General Colin Powell, Former U.S. Secretary of State o The Honorable Cory Booker, U.S. Senate o Dalila Wilson-Scott, Managing Director, Global Philanthropy, JPMorgan Chase o Danielle Gray, Partner, O'Melveny & Myers LLP o The Honorable Eric Holder, Former U.S. Attorney General o The Honorable Frederica Wilson, U.S. Congresswoman o Reverend Gabriel Salguero, President, National Latino Evangelical Coalition o Ignacio Salazar, National President and CEO, SER-Jobs for Progress National, Inc. o Javier Palomarez, President and CEO, United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce o Jerome Bettis, Former NFL Player, The Bus36 o John Rice, Founder and CEO, Management Leadership for Tomorrow o Judith Browne Dianis, Co-Director, Advancement Project o The Honorable Greg Ballard, Mayor, City of Indianapolis, Indiana o The Honorable Kevin Johnson, Mayor, City of Sacramento, California o The Honorable Michael Nutter, Mayor, City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania o Melody Barnes, Chair, Aspen Forum for Community Solutions o Michael Lombardo, CEO, Reading Partners o Michael Skolnik, President, GlobalGrind.com o Nick Turner, President and Director, Vera Institute of Justice o Peggy McLeod, Deputy Vice President, National Council of La Raza o Rashad Robinson, Executive Director, Color of Change o Dr. Robert Ross, President and CEO, The California Endowment o Scott Budnick, Founder/President, Anti-Recidivism Coalition o Shaquille O'Neal, Former NBA Player o Shaun Harper, Executive Director for the Center for the Study of Race and Equity in Education, University of Pennsylvania o Shawn Dove, CEO, Campaign for Black Male Achievement · Social Enterprise Partners: National League of Cities, Opportunity Youth Network, PolicyLink, StriveTogether, United Way and Urban Institute Corporate Commitments A combined total of more than $80 million in in-kind and financial donations have been committed to the MBK Alliance: · American Express · Ariel Investments · Aspen Institute · BET Networks · Deloitte Consulting, LLP · Discovery Networks · Legendary Entertainment · The Libra Group · News Corporation · Valor Equity · PepsiCo · Prudential Group Insurance · The Raben Group · Sam’s Club · Sprint ​The Mission My Brother’s Keeper Alliance (“MBK Alliance”), a new, independent nonprofit, aims to eliminate the gaps in opportunity and achievement for boys and young men of color – making the American dream available to all. This will require strategic evidence-based interventions from community, private, public and social enterprise partners that holistically tackle these gaps from cradle to career. ###
05.05.2015	The Bronx, NY – Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in celebration of Cinco de Mayo. Widely celebrated in the United States, Cinco de Mayo marks the Mexican army’s victory in the Battle of Puebla in 1862 and is a source of pride for people Mexican descent. “On Cinco de Mayo, we celebrate the rich culture and history of Mexico and the many contributions Mexican-Americans have made to our nation since before its inception. We also celebrate the rich cultural traditions and strong family values that characterize the Mexican and Hispanic community. “From the arts to politics, the United States is a richer and stronger country thanks to the role Mexican-Americans have played throughout its history. If it weren’t for the ever growing presence of Mexican-Americans in the United States, we simply wouldn’t be able to be where we are as a nation today. Mexican immigrants have brought new life to neighborhoods in the Bronx and across the nation. This Cinco de Mayo also serves as a reminder that we need to keep investing in this community and that we must work to pass comprehensive immigration reform to ensure that Mexican immigrant families don’t continue suffering the effects of a broken and unfair immigration system.” The Census Bureau estimates that there are more than 47,000 people of Mexican heritage living in the 15th Congressional District in the Bronx. ###
05.01.2015	GRAND Act Would Help Non-profits Expand Affordable Housing for Grandparent-Headed Families Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement on the reintroduction of the Generational Residences and Nurturing Dwellings Act (GRAND) Act (H.R. 2188). The bill seeks to expand affordable housing for low-income grandparent-headed families by creating a competitive grant program within the Department of Housing and Urban Development for eligible non-profit organizations that provide specialized housing and supportive services to seniors raising children under the age of 18. “Over the past decade, the amount of grandparents acting as primary caregivers for minor children has increased by 16 percent. Our federal policies and programs need to reflect the demographic and family composition changes taking place in our society. The GRAND Act attempts to address a growing need for affordable housing for grandparent-led families. “By authorizing and facilitating the creation of a new grant program, the GRAND Act would allow eligible non-profit organizations to serve more ‘grandfamilies’. The grants would specifically help non-profits that intend to open, or already operate, specialized housing units build such facilities, cover operational expenses, provide rental assistance to eligible tenants, and offer supportive services to grandparents raising children. “As the face of our nation’s families continues to change, we need to enact measures that strengthen and support the special needs of low-income families and children. The GRAND Act is an important step in ensuring low-income seniors that serve as primary caregivers are able to raise children in a safe and nurturing environment. Click HERE for more information on H.R. 2188. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
04.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today after passage in the House of Representatives of the Republican Budget Conference Report for fiscal year 2016. The bill passed along party lines by a vote of 226-197. “Like all recent Republican budget proposals, the Budget Conference Report approved today seeks to ‘balance’ our budget on the back of hard-working Americans, while extending tax breaks for the wealthiest and protecting special interests. Republicans’ “Work Harder For Less” budget invests in the wrong priorities and it’s a bad deal for Bronx families and for our country’s future. “The bill’s $5.5 trillion in spending cuts focus mostly on Republican’s favorite targets, programs crucial to low-income families and the middle class: health care programs, funding for higher education, assistance for the families that need it the most, and infrastructure investment. Almost half of this amount comes from entirely repealing the Affordable Care Act, which Republicans want to do without putting forth an alternate proposal to meet the needs of the 16 million people who have already benefited from this historic legislation. Meanwhile, it does not raise any new revenue from taxes. A truly balanced budget would raise new revenue by putting in place a tax system that requires everyone to pay their fair share. “As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I am particularly troubled by the effect this budget would have on the appropriations process. By locking in sequester level spending, Republicans are preventing our government from investing in the programs that many Americans depend upon, from Section 8 housing to SNAP benefits to legal services. It prevents our nation from properly investing in infrastructure, research, and education that help create jobs and drive our economy. It is short-sighted and deeply harmful to our nation. “The worst part is that the math doesn’t even add up. Republicans are relying on dubious tactics and gimmicks to account for a balanced budget. While Democrats propose a budget that provides our working and middle class with more economic opportunities and investing in the areas that will allow our nation to build on the progress we have made in recent years to continue growing economically, Republicans have shown once again whose side they are on – big money and special interests.” ###
04.23.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Loretta Lynch as the 63rd Attorney General of the United States of America. “Today is a proud moment in our nation’s history as we witness the confirmation of the first African American woman to serve as Attorney General. Loretta Lynch is highly qualified for this position. Her previous experience as a prosecutor, and in the private sector, will serve her well in ensuring that our nation’s laws are fairly enforced and that all groups are given equal protection under the law. “Ms. Lynch served our nation well as U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York. I have great respect for Ms. Lynch and all of the work she has done to safeguard civil rights and enforce our nation’s laws. As a Senior Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Science and Justice, which funds the U.S. Department of Justice, I am looking forward to working with her.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
04.23.2015	Washington, DC – April 23, 2015 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano reintroduced the Smartphone Theft Prevention Act in the House of Representatives while Senator Amy Klobuchar reintroduced identical legislation in the Senate. The bill will require smartphone manufacturers and cell phone service providers to allow consumers access to a “kill switch” on their smartphones. This technology successfully deters cell phone theft by empowering consumers with the ability to remotely wipe their phone data, render their device useless on any network, and make it unable to be reactivated or reprogrammed if stolen. By creating a universal standard of consumer protection, the legislation will help stem the rapid increase in crime surrounding smartphones and other mobile devices. The legislation is supported by a diverse array of stakeholders, including New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and San Francisco District Attorney George Gascón, co-leaders of the Secure Our Smartphones coalition, the Major Cities Chiefs Association, and the Consumers Union. “Kill-switch technology is the single most effective theft prevention measure that we have available,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “Yet despite this knowledge, too many consumers don’t have access to the tools that will deter thieves and help them protect their data. The Smartphone Theft Prevention Act will ensure that all smartphone users have access to technology that will help them protect themselves.” “After our Secure Our Smartphones initiative pressured some of the biggest cell phone manufacturers to adopt kill switches, we saw a 16% overall drop in cell phone robberies in New York City,” said New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman. “If passed, the legislation introduced today by Congressman Serrano and Senator Klobuchar will make that kill switch a regular feature on all smartphones. This bill will take us one step closer to ensuring that no more families are victimized by this crime wave. I applaud the congressman and senator for their efforts.” Smartphone theft has risen rapidly in recent years. Consumer Reports indicated that there were 3.1 million smartphone thefts in 2013, the latest year for which data is available. In New York City in 2013, more than one quarter of all thefts and 55 percent of all grand larcenies involved a smartphone. Cell phones are typically stolen for resale in both domestic and international black markets, but can also be stolen in order to try and access a consumer's personal information. Unfortunately, sometimes these crimes can turn violent, with tragic results. “While some manufacturers have successfully adopted this type of technology, far too many have not done enough to ensure the safety and security of their customers,” added Serrano.“It is time for them to act, and the Smartphone Theft Prevention Act will ensure that they do so in a way that protects consumers.” The legislation requires all smartphones to have ‘kill-switch’ technology automatically installed on the device, and will make it an opt-out feature. This will ensure that the technology is a standard part of all smartphones and that consumers have easy access to it. The bill also gives the FCC the authority to decide whether tablets should have the same requirements as smartphones. Recent reports indicate that the theft of Apple iPhones, which now have ‘kill-switch’ technology available, has significantly declined since the technology became available.
04.21.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressmen José E. Serrano, Joe Crowley, and Ben Ray Luján introduced the Hispanic Opportunity Program in Education and Science Act (HOPES Act), which would require the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a grant program to support undergraduate science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education at Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs). In 2007, Congressman Crowley inserted language in the America COMPETES Act to allow the NSF to establish a program focused on HSIs. Despite having this authority, the NSF has yet to establish such a program. The HOPES Act will require the agency to establish a dedicated stream of funding for students attending HSIs. “STEM education is crucial for the United States in order to maintain the lead in cutting-edge technology and competitiveness, to create well-paid jobs, and to provide opportunities for all. Unfortunately, we are not doing enough to attract Americans from all walks of life to these important and vital fields of study. The HOPES Act will increase the number of Hispanic students pursuing STEM degrees by creating dedicated funding to help students attending HSIs succeed in these fields of study. This bill will help expand opportunities for all students, and will help ensure that our workforce in the STEM fields is as diverse as our nation as a whole,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “There is no question, STEM skills are critical for our country to compete in a global economy. Unfortunately, Hispanic students are severely underrepresented in these fields of tomorrow,”said Congressman Joe Crowley. “Our HOPES Act builds upon efforts I have made over the past 8 years to urge the NSF to establish a separate STEM education grant for Hispanic Serving Institutions of higher education. By creating a dedicated grants program, we can help Hispanic students reach their rightful place in the STEM fields.” “The STEM fields offer a world of opportunities in growing sectors that create good jobs, and it is important that we engage students from every community. Young people need access to quality STEM education that will prepare them with the skills and knowledge they need to get ahead,” said Congressman Ben Ray Luján. “Attracting a diverse workforce will enhance our ability to out-innovate the rest of the world, and the HOPES Act will help encourage Hispanic students to engage in areas that are vital to maintaining our economic competitiveness and growing our economy.” Hispanic students are currently greatly underrepresented in the STEM fields. According to NSF data, Hispanic students comprise 10.3 percent of all students in STEM 4 year undergraduate degree programs and 14.6 percent of STEM 2 year degree programs. These numbers are well below Hispanics share of the nation's population as a whole- 17.3 percent. This legislation will increase the likelihood of Hispanic students seeking a STEM education and provide HSIs with the necessary resources in order to enhance the quality of STEM offerings at HSIs and increase retention and graduation rates of students pursuing STEM degrees. The bill is supported by the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU).
04.15.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Chairman Crenshaw. I join you in welcoming Chair White back before the subcommittee to testify on the fiscal year 2016 budget request for the Securities and Exchange Commission. Usually we have the IRS visit us on Tax Day, but we've changed it up a bit this year. The SEC plays a pivotal role in ensuring fairness, openness, and truth in our financial markets. As the markets have grown more complex, and as new technologies have taken root, the needs of the agency have grown as well. I am pleased that last year this committee was able to come together and provide a substantial increase in funding for the agency, with a total of $1.5 billion in fiscal year 2015, an increase of $150 million over FY 2014. Although the funding increases were helpful in enabling the SEC to vigorously enforce the law, last year's appropriations process was the sources of much concern as well. In fiscal year 2015, a series of controversial riders were added to this portion of the bill, which limited SEC activities in a whole host of areas. Additionally, one amendment made in committee, which I opposed, was simply the legislative text of authorizing legislation. Although most of the riders were removed, the authorizing language remained in the final text of the bill. That language opened up loopholes in Dodd-Frank and once again allowed certain types of risky financial transactions to be made by financial institutions without sufficient protections for the federal government. Many House Democrats opposed the Omnibus bill last year because of this provision, including myself. It was the single biggest impediment to bipartisan agreement in the House. I believe that further attempts to limit the SEC's ability to protect financial markets and the economy would greatly harm the prospects for a Financial Services Appropriations bill. This year's request asks for further targeted investments that will help the SEC protect consumers and investors. I always like to say that the SEC is the 'cop on the beat' for Wall Street. But if I may extend the analogy, the amount of territory the SEC is required to cover grows each year, and the agency needs more cops to enforce the law properly. Chair White, I fully support your request to significantly increase the number of personnel in enforcement and compliance, as well as in other key areas. Your proposed budget is key to ensuring the safety and security of America's financial markets and the economy as a whole, and I hope that this subcommittee takes your requests seriously. Lastly, before I finish, I think everyone here needs a reminder about the problems that sequestration caused the SEC. The agency was severely hampered by these mandatory budget cuts, and that put our economy needlessly at risk. We cannot allow another sequester to return- otherwise we simply increase the risks of another financial meltdown. The SEC is a vital piece in our efforts to ensure the safety, security, and fairness of our financial system. We have given the agency significant new responsibilities over the past few years, but without the proper resources, they cannot adequately enforce the law. Chair White, once again, welcome, and I look forward to your testimony. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
04.07.2015	NEW YORK—New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti announced today that 73 cities and counties had filed a new friend-of-the-court brief in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in the Texas vs. United States lawsuit, urging immediate implementation of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. “Continuing to delay implementation of the President’s executive action on immigration hurts our economy and puts families at risk,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “Cities are where immigrants live, and cities are where the President’s executive action will be successfully implemented. Our cities are united, and we will fight for the immigration reform this nation needs and deserves – whether in the courtroom, in Congress, or in our communities. Make no mistake about it: our voices will be heard.” “Our cities cannot afford delays to immigration reforms that will strengthen our economy and help families,” said Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. “This isn’t a blue or red issue, but a human and economic one.” The brief demonstrates robust support from the country’s largest cities – as well as suburbs and rural areas – for the President’s reforms, which will temporarily relieve from deportation thousands of immigrants who have longstanding ties to the U.S. The cities and counties – representing 43 million people across the country – argue that the district court judge who temporarily blocked implementation of the programs failed to consider the significant harm to America’s local governments caused by this delay. According to an analysis by the City, each month that the implementation of these programs is delayed, New York City and New York State will lose at least $1.5 million in additional state and local tax revenue that would be generated if 100,000 immigrants in New York City were able to access temporary work permits through executive action. “New York’s immigrants are vital to our economy and we must do all we can to help them grow and thrive. Mayor de Blasio is correct – instead of putting up barriers, we should be looking at ways to help immigrants climb the ladder of economic opportunity and welcome them into our communities. The New York State Assembly Majority strongly supports President Obama’s executive action on immigration, and further delay by those who would derail this important initiative is unacceptable,” said New York State Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie. “Each day we wait to implement President Obama’s bold immigration reforms, millions of hard-working families remain in legal limbo. Immigrant communities built New York City, and they are the heart and soul of urban centers across our country,” said Public Advocate Letitia James. “As Congress and federal courts stall meaningful progress on immigration, New York City will continue to lead the nation.” As part of Cities United for Immigration Action, Mayors de Blasio and Garcetti led the effort to organize more than 70 cities and counties, the National League of Cities, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors in arguing that the national public interest is served clearly and overwhelmingly by implementing immigration relief by executive action without delay. Today’s brief more than doubles the number of local governments that had previously voiced opposition to the lawsuit brought by states seeking to block President Obama’s immigration reform efforts. The brief also argues that the District Court judge’s decision to block executive action with a preliminary injunction is bad for the economy, hurts families, threatens law enforcement priorities, and will stall desperately needed changes to the federal government’s immigration policies. The de Blasio Administration has a proven track record of spearheading initiatives that integrate immigrants into the civic and economic life of New York City. From the IDNYC municipal identification program to increasing access to federal immigration benefits, New York City is committed to championing pro-immigrant policies that promote equity and create opportunity for all residents. This collective action to offer the Court the crucial perspective of American cities and counties is an outcome of the organizing efforts of the Cities United for Immigration Action coalition. By filing this brief, America’s mayors and county leaders are making a strong statement in support of the President’s plan to grant administrative relief to over four million undocumented children and adults. Numerous cities and counties signed on to today’s brief are located in states that brought the lawsuit against the Obama administration or have otherwise indicated support for the lawsuit, including five cities in Texas, six localities in New Jersey, two counties in Arizona, and three municipalities in Wisconsin. Cities and counties signed on to the brief (in formation) include the following local governments: Alexandria, VA Allentown, PA Atlanta, GA Austin, TX Baltimore, MD Bell, CA Boston, MA Bridgeport, CT Buffalo, NY Cambridge, MA Central Falls, RI Chapel Hill, NC Charleston, SC Chicago, IL Coconino County, AZ Columbia, SC Columbus, OH Dallas County, TX Dayton, OH Denver, CO Dolton, IL El Paso County, TX Everett, MA Gary, IN Haledon, NJ Hartford, CT Highland Park, IL Hoboken, NJ Holyoke, MA Houston, TX Jersey City, NJ Kansas City, MO Little Rock, AR Los Angeles, CA Los Angeles County, CA Lucas County, OH Madison, WI Milwaukee, WI Minneapolis, MN Montgomery County, MD Newark, NJ New York, NY Niagara Falls, NY North Miami, FL Oakland, CA Paterson, NJ Philadelphia, PA Pittsburgh, PA Plainfield, NJ Portland, OR Providence, RI Racine, WI Ramsey County, MN Rochester, NY Salt Lake City, UT San Francisco, CA San Jose, CA Santa Ana, CA Santa Cruz County, AZ Santa Fe, NM Santa Monica, CA Schenectady, NY Seattle, WA Skokie, IL St. Louis, MO State College, PA Syracuse, NY Tacoma, WA Tampa, FL Travis County, TX Washington, D.C. West Covina, CA Yonkers, NY National League of Cities U.S. Conference of Mayors “Brooklyn is what America looks like, with nearly 40 percent of our residents being foreign-born, and when it comes to embracing our immigrant population, it is what America ought to be. President Obama's executive order on immigration is the most significant and meaningful step our nation has taken toward addressing this long-standing crisis and the millions of families who have been stuck in the shadows of our society, including hundreds of thousands right here in New York City. Our diversity is our greatest strength, and I join my fellow urban leaders from coast to coast in making this call to support the President's reforms,” said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “Legally and morally, the president's executive action on immigration was both within his power and the right thing to do,” said Manhattan Borough President Gale Brewer. “Blocking its implementation will do real harm to cities. That’s why joining with other cities and counties across the country urging its implementation is the right thing as well.” “We stand with New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio’s and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti’s decision to file a ‘friend-of-the-court’ brief in support of President Barack Obama’s executive action on immigration,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. “The President’s executive action currently being blocked in the courts hurts The Bronx and New York City, with the borough losing out on potential local tax revenues that would be generated by these hard-working immigrants who just want to come out the shadows and positively contribute to our country. We are the land of opportunity, built on the ideal that we are melting pot that promotes equality for all and we must continue to strive for those ideals that make our country great.” “President Obama's executive actions were bold and decisive steps toward fixing America's broken immigration system. The Statue of Liberty stands tall in our City, reminding us that America was built by generations of immigrants who came to its shores in search of a better life and a chance to make our country greater,” said U.S. Representative Charles Rangel. “I am proud to see that Mayor de Blasio is committed to keeping that promise alive for years to come.” "The delay in the implementation of DAPA and expanded DACA threatens millions of American families with deportation, as well as the many communities, such as New York City, of which immigrants are an integral part,” said U.S. Representative Yvette Clarke. “No serious doubt exists that President Obama had the authority to establish DAPA and DACA. I want to commend Mayor de Blasio and the many community leaders across this nation who have raised their voices on behalf of millions of families who want to pursue the American Dream." “In the absence of legislative action by House Republicans, President Obama took decisive action on immigration because he knows that there are real lives at stake in our current broken system,” said U.S. Representative Joe Crowley. “It is deeply troubling that a Texas judge known to be hostile to immigrants is delaying the President’s executive measures, especially given the legal precedents set by previous administrations. Halting action that will help keep American families together strikes at the heart of what our country ought to be about, and I thank Mayors de Blasio, Garcetti, and many others for taking a stand and showing the widespread support for the President’s action. I’m confident the Department of Justice will succeed in its appeal of this decision and that we will move forward with this much-needed action that will make such a difference in New York City and elsewhere.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for working with cities across the nation to support President Obama’s executive actions on immigration,” said U.S. Representative Carolyn Maloney. “With over 12 million undocumented immigrants living in our country, comprehensive immigration reform is long overdue. Unfortunately, Congress has failed to act. That is why I strongly support President Obama’s executive actions, which will help keep families together, boost our economy and generate new tax revenue. These are common sense steps that mimic similar actions by Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, and it’s long past time that President Obama’s reforms are implemented.” “We can’t continue to delay implementing President Obama’s executive action on immigration. With this friend-of-the-court brief, New York City is joined by more than 70 cities nationwide in voicing its strong support for moving ahead with providing administrative deportation relief to more than 4 million immigrants with strong ties to the U.S. As the brief argues, the District Court’s holdup only hurts our economy, harmless immigrant families, and the federal government’s ability to address our broken immigration system. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for once again putting New York City at the forefront of efforts to help the immigrant community, in New York City, and nationwide,” said U.S. Representative José Serrano, Sr. “The President’s immigration reforms make badly needed changes to a broken system and will benefit thousands of our neighbors,” stated U.S. Representative Nydia Velázquez. “It is critical for New York City and our nation as a whole that these reforms be implemented without delay.” “Every day we delay fixing our broken immigration system is a missed opportunity,” said U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice. “There's no question that we need to keep fighting for comprehensive immigration reform at the federal level, but our local communities can't afford to wait when there's no sign that this Congress is willing to pass real legislative solutions. Thousands of hard-working Long Island families are ready to come out of the shadows, stop living in fear and start participating fully in our local economies, and there's no reason to deny them that opportunity any longer. Last week I joined several fellow Members of Congress in signing an amicus brief affirming our support for the government's appeal, and the brief filed today by Mayors de Blasio and Garcetti shows that local and federal leaders across the country are united in our commitment to implementing the President's executive actions.” “Immigrants move New York's economy forward,” said State Senator Leroy Comrie. “I represent a district where over a third of its population is foreign-born, and where many more are the children and grandchildren of the rich immigrant legacy this city – and this nation – is so proud of. Immigrants are innovators, business owners and job creators: they augment this City's supply of capital and ideas to diversify its narrative and keep it nationally and globally competitive. Not only is it in our best interest to immediately implement the President's platform for immigration reform, but it is the socially and morally responsible thing to do.” “Every day the President's executive actions on immigration are blocked, is another day hundreds of thousands of young adults and parents, trying to provide for their families, are unable to work. This is not good for anyone, and the leaders of our cities and counties across the country know this first hand. I thank them for standing with undocumented immigrants and working to bring them out of the shadows,” said State Senator Adriano Espaillat, Chair of the State Senate Puerto Rican/Latino Caucus. “This friend-of-the-court brief stands with immigrants in our communities against needless delay in the urgently needed Deferred Action programs. President Obama has charted a course for a more compassionate immigration system – a system that treats our friends and neighbors with the dignity they deserve. I commend this action by Mayor de Blasio and dozens of mayors across the United States in keeping with the vision President Obama outlined. I join these mayors and leaders across the country in reaffirming our commitment to America’s longstanding tradition of welcoming immigrants to our communities,” said State Senator Jesse Hamilton. “It is time to stop intolerant views toward our immigrants. I am in full support of this brief, which is intended to safeguard and implement President Obama’s executive actions on immigration that are intended to keep families together,” said State Senator Jose Peralta. “We, as immigrants, live in all cities across our nation, and blocking the implementation of the President’s policies, hurts not just families fighting for the American Dream, but also our ongoing efforts to enrich and repair our economy.” “I am very proud that New York City is leading the way on a collective amicus brief in the Texas vs. United States case which calls for swift and sweeping implementation of President Obama’s executive actions concerning rational immigration policy. The lives of millions of people hang in the balance, so many of them New Yorkers who share the same hopes, dreams and aspirations that each successive wave of immigrants harbored generations ago. Each of them found a true home here and it is time for our City and Country to open our arms and our hearts in the name of fundamental human rights,” said State Senator Bill Perkins. “The implementation of President Obama's executive action on immigration is imperative to ensuring we support the countless immigrants that contribute to the social and economic life of our country,” said State Senator Gustavo Rivera. “We are a country of immigrants, and this executive action will help us strengthen and protect our diverse population, while honoring our values as Americans. I commend and thank Mayor de Blasio for having New York join cities and counties across our country in taking legal action to support an initial step towards immigration reform." “Here in a city and state where we pride ourselves on diversity, we can only benefit from the implementation of President Obama’s executive action on immigration,” said State Senator James Sanders Jr. “It will allow for a reprieve from deportation while giving the undocumented a chance to work, providing a much needed boost to the economy. Just this past week, the state budget failed to include the DREAM Act, which would have given thousands of vibrant young people a chance at success by allowing them to continue their education and creating a pathway to citizenship. Let’s not miss another opportunity to help build a stronger New York." "Unjust deportations have continued to tear apart our families, our schools and our communities. We must act swiftly in implementing President Obama's immigration executive action in order to protect these important populations. Immigrants are the backbone of our communities, and I thank Mayors de Blasio and Garcetti for creating a united front to demonstrate our support for the swift implementation of the President's measures," said State Senator José Serrano. “The delay to President Obama’s executive action on immigration is intolerable and comes with a real cost to real people,” said Assembly Member Rodneyse Bichotte. “Every day, families of aspiring Americans are destroyed by a system badly in need of reform and the President’s executive action offers needed help. I join with Mayor de Blasio and Eric Garcetti in the Texas v. United States lawsuit to urge immediate implementation of President Obama's executive actions on immigration. As a daughter of Haitian immigrants, and as a proud citizen of the United States and elected official of New York, I have a duty to act on behalf of the social justice of our people—as well as a fiduciary responsibility to ensure our economies gain the benefits immigration brings.” “As a child of Jamaican immigrants, it is personal for me that we stand up for Immigration justice and demand immediate action. The implementation of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration is a moral, social, and economic necessity. The delays are inexcusable, and we must move forward. In past years, immigrants in NYC have accounted for more than $200 billion in economic activity to help revitalize vibrant neighborhoods including the work of Latino, Caribbean and African entrepreneurs in the South Bronx. Through hard work and tireless dedication, Immigrants embody the entrepreneurial spirit that makes our country so beautiful, and the best country in the world,” said Assembly Member Michael Blake. “Immigrants are our neighbors, our friends, and our family, and I proudly stand with Mayor Bill de Blasio and Eric Garcetti in calling for our judicial system to do the right thing, the humane thing, the compassionate thing, and give our communities the life they deserve.” “I want to commend Mayor de Blasio and all the other mayors for supporting immigration reforms. Implementation of the President’s Immigration Executive action will provide much needed relief to immigrant families suffering under our broken system and is a crucial first step on the road to treating our immigrants with the fairness and respect they deserve,” said Assembly Member Guillermo Linares. “Every month that goes by without President Obama’s executive actions is another month that families can be ripped apart,” said Assembly Member Francisco Moya. “For those of us who deal with the fallout from our nation’s flawed immigration policies on a daily basis, we know how critical the President’s executive actions truly are. Keeping families together is not only the right thing to do; it’s also in our nation’s best interest.” “Mayor de Blasio is taking the right step filing today's court brief,” said Assembly Member Felix Ortiz. “Without action from the Congress and State Legislature, we must support President Obama's efforts to protect workers and their families from deportation. While we keep the fight alive in Albany for the Dream Act, driver licenses and state-issued identification cards for non-citizens and better wages for all workers, today's action by our Mayor and by so many others across the nation is a positive step to make life better for millions. We can't wait any longer.” “We need comprehensive immigration reform immediately,” said Assembly Member Robert Rodriguez. “President Obama’s Executive action is a huge step towards creating fair policies that help our growing immigrant communities of New York City thrive, any hindrance to its enactment harms us irreparably.” “It is clear that our immigration system is broken and comprehensive reform is needed to provide long-term relief for the families who have contributed to the growth and prosperity of our nation," said Assembly Member Nily Rozic. "Filing this brief is reflective of New York City's commitment to advancing immigrants' rights and I commend the Mayor for his continued advocacy and leadership on this urgent issue. “With an estimated 100,000 undocumented immigrants in New York City who would benefit greatly from President Obama’s executive action this brief sends a strong message on the importance of implementing these reforms,” said Assembly Member Luis Sepúlveda. “New York has long been at the forefront of immigration reform. Mayor de Blasio has proven his commitment to immigrants throughout his first year in office and continues to through actions like this. I commend the Mayor and the many other cities and counties for supporting these initiatives, as implementing each one of them will be for the national public interest.” “Opportunity for families in America to obtain basic rights and a better quality of life should not be dictated by political games. The partisan stalling of President Obama's Immigration Executive Action is sophomoric, and the District Court's preliminary objection undoubtedly has a deleterious effect on our national economy. New York City is, and always has been a city of immigrants, and we have this community to thank for the strength we enjoy as a City and a Nation . I am proud of New York City's participation in the amicus brief filed in Texas vs. United States, and am hopeful that the demand from such a robust list of diverse urban areas will bring us closer to real reform which has been long overdue," said Assembly Member Keith Wright. “I commend Mayor de Blasio in joining the effort to defend the President’s Administrative Relief that offers potential relief to millions of immigrants with strong ties to our nation, and who already work hard and contribute to make this a better country. While the Court stalls, and Congress fails to enact meaningful immigration reform, New York City will continue to protect the rights of immigrants and ensure that their contributions to our City are recognized—and celebrated. Our City continues to offer affirming spaces for immigrant populations, and I am hopeful that this action from our Mayor—and from his colleagues from around the country—will provide some context about the urgent need for the implementation of the President’s programs,” said Council Member Carlos Menchaca, Chair of the Committee on Immigration. “I support the new friend-of-the-court brief urging immediate implementation of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. Immigrants are in important part of the fabric of our society and economy and granting administrative relief to those immigrants in need is an act of social responsibility,” said Council Member Inez Barron. “I applaud New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio for joining Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti in filing a friend-of-the-court brief calling for implementation of President Obama’s executive action on immigration. As an elected official representing an area with a significant immigrant population, I join with others across the country in urging the courts to move forward on providing deportation relief. The President’s immigration policies provide a just, sensible solution for millions of immigrants who live in the U.S. and contribute to our nation’s society in myriad ways. From an economic perspective, there is no question that New York stands to benefit from implementation of these policies, as significant tax revenues would be generated by the granting of temporary work permits to our City’s population of 100,000 immigrants,” said Council Member Fernando Cabrera. “President Obama’s executive action on immigration will have a profoundly positive impact on thousands of families in our city, and it must be implemented immediately,” said Council Member Margaret Chin. “I strongly support today’s legal action in support of the President’s reforms, and I thank Mayor de Blasio for his continued leadership on this fundamentally important issue.” “New York City is, was, and always will be a leader in the immigrant rights movement. We stand united in support of President Obama's Executive Order,” said Council Member Andrew Cohen. "We have waited for federal immigration reform for too long,” said Council Member Costa Constantinides. “The current federal laws are broken and lead to families being broken up or to unwarranted detention. President Obama’s executive order will take significant steps to help ameliorate these concerns. We must ensure due process and respect for all. I stand with Mayor De Blasio, Mayor Garcetti, and with 70 other cities across the nation that support the President’s order." “The stand the District Court Judge has taken against immigration reform is harming the future of our country, our immigrants,” said Council Member Daniel Dromm. “I am glad Mayor de Blasio has signed on to an amicus brief to push back against the court’s anti-immigrant actions. In New York City we support our immigrants not hold them back by putting obstacles to citizenship in their way.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio and the Mayors of more than 70 cities across the country for making it clear that they are ready, willing, and able to implement the reforms proposed by President Obama’s executive action. As the son of immigrants, I know firsthand the difficulties faced by those who have come to the United States seeking a better life for themselves and their families. Our immigration system is broken and full implementation of President Obama’s executive action is necessary in order to ensure more families are not harmed by failed policies,” said Council Member Rafael Espinal. “President Obama’s executive action would be a lifeline to many families in our City who only want to work hard and provide more than they had for their children,” said Council Member Julissa Ferreras. “The continued delay of immigration reform only hurts our cities by separating families as well as denying our local governments millions of dollars in tax revenue. I commend Mayor de Blasio, Mayor Garcetti and the chief executives of over 70 American cities for championing this issue in our courts and call on Congress to finally do the right thing and recognize that immigration reform makes sense for all.” “For too long, cities have been trying to navigate a federal immigration policy that is in dire need of reform. The President's executive actions were an important first step toward making sense of those immigration policies. Delaying their implementation creates very real problems for the cities that are on the front lines of the immigration debate,” said Council Member Dan Garodnick. “By delaying the implementation of immigration reform, the court is making a decision that hurts state and local economies and needlessly diverts law enforcement attention,” said Council Member Vanessa Gibson. “Spending tax dollars to prosecute otherwise law abiding residents who want to work here, raise families here, and spend money here is a policy that has never made sense and I urge the court to recognize the considerable good immigration reform will bring to our communities. I am proud to stand with legislators within New York and around the country in support of President Obama’s actions and I look forward to a favorable decision that will uphold the ordered relief of nearly 4 million undocumented adults and children.” “Today, New York City stands with over 70 American municipalities in support of President Obama’s recent executive action on immigration,” said Council Member Corey Johnson. “If implemented, the plan would grant much needed administrative relief and protection from deportation to over 4 million undocumented individuals. Our country and New York City were built by immigrants and their families. Barring immigrants from fully participating in American civic and economic life is contrary to our values. It’s time to make a change.” “We are a nation of immigrants, including my grandparents who came here to escape antisemitism, and the grandparents of so many. We must continue to accept all those 'yearning to breathe free',” said Council Member Ben Kallos. “The state invests resources in every person the second they set foot in our soil. By welcoming people with open arms, we guarantee a return on that investment. I applaud Mayors de Blasio and Garcetti for urging the immediate implementation of President Obama's immigration reforms." “President Obama has signed an Executive Order and it’s shameful and unheard of for the District Court judge to block the executive action,” said Council Member Andy King, Co-Chair of the Black, Latino & Asian Caucus. “New York is and has always been a city of immigrants and President Obama’s vision allows for immediate reform in our communities. I stand with the Mayor and the President and all Americans across the nation committed to justice and our voices will be heard.” "I see every day the positive impact immigrants have on our communities, as a representative of one of the most diverse areas in the country," said Council Member Rory Lancman. "Immigrants start businesses, pay taxes and raise their children here. Unfortunately, current US immigration policies leave far too many of our neighbors afraid that they will be deported from the country that has been their home for years. Mayor de Blasio's brief, joined by so many other cities, sends a clear message to the Court that cities support the President's action and want our immigrants to be able to come out of the shadows." “New York City can’t wait any longer for implementation of President Obama’s executive action on immigration,” said Council Member Steve Levin. “Thank you to Mayor de Blasio and cities and counties around the United States who are taking a stand for smart and needed immigration reforms.” “Undocumented immigrants and their families have waited far too long for substantive and comprehensive immigration reform. Not only do we need these reforms to be effectuated, we also need more policies that will help bring relief to millions of immigrants, help keep their families together, while strengthening our economy. I’m proud to stand with Mayor de Blasio, my colleagues in City Council, and the cities and counties across the country, who are fighting for the rights of our immigrant communities,” said Council Member Annabel Palma. “I’d like to thank Mayor de Blasio for taking leadership on this important issue. Implementation of President Obama’s executive order would have a major positive impact on the lives of our immigrant communities,” said Council Member Antonio Reynoso. “I am proud to stand with Mayor De Blasio and 70 other municipalities throughout the nation in full support of President Obama’s executive action on immigration,” said Council Member Donovan Richards. “The history of the United States is a history of immigrants. Extending temporary relief from deportation for residents that contribute millions of dollars to our domestic economy is common sense. “President Obama's actions will bring 5 million immigrants out of the shadows. For years these families have lived with the constant anxiety and fear of deportation. But no longer. Now undocumented immigrants can apply to receive services that they've long deserved. By receiving social security cards and work permits so many will be able to legally work towards the American Dream they came to pursue,” said Council Member Ydanis Rodriguez. “However, some among us want to push these families back into the shadows. Today we, the cities that drive our country's economy forward, stand united in support of the President’s actions.” “The temporary work permits granted by President Barack Obama's executive action are essential to the daily functions of New York City and cities nationwide. We are a nation of immigrants, and delaying implementation of this program is, frankly, un-American. I stand with Mayors Bill de Blasio and Eric Garcetti and the 72 cities and counties throughout the US (list in formation), in urging immediate implementation of this executive action,” said Council Member Helen Rosenthal. “Immigrants make critical contributions our local economies and civic infrastructure, but cannot continue doing so if they are living in the shadows. The growing list of municipalities and counties signed onto the brief further underscores the importance and urgency of administrative relief for millions of undocumented children and adults. The Mayor has been a tireless champion of New York’s immigrant communities and I commend him for spearheading this effort,” said Council Member Richie Torres. “I support the immediate implementation of President Obama’s executive order,” said Council Member Mark Weprin. “Immigrants have always played a vital role in shaping our nation’s economy and continue to contribute every day to the vitality of New York City.” “Delaying President Obama’s executive orders to implement real immigration reform only puts New York City’s efforts to provide countless families economic opportunity they need on hold,” said New York City Council Majority Leader Jimmy Van Bramer. “Now is the time to act and our City is prepared to. I support Mayor de Blasio and numerous other cities throughout our nation’s efforts to begin implementing much-needed reforms for the millions of families who are looking to us for assistance to become included and engaged citizens of New York City and our great nation.” “The time for a rational immigration policy has long been overdue. Where Congress has failed to act in the collective interest of the American people, President Obama has sought to step into the breach. The use of executive authority on this issue is with precedent, and this unfortunate maneuver by the State of Texas to stymie him ignores the greater economic, security, and familial needs of all our citizens. Mayor de Blasio recognizes these plain truths, and I support the amicus brief he and so many other municipalities, nationwide, have filed in support of the President’s action,” said Council Member Ruben Wills. “In cities across the country, hard-working men and women are waiting for President Obama's Executive Action to go into effect so they can live and work without fear of deportation and separation from their families,” said Hector Figueroa, President of 32BJ SEIU. “In Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington DC and many more cities up and down the East Coast, 32BJ members have long been part of the fight for immigration reform and we will continue to take action in Congress and on the streets until these reforms are implemented. It is the humane and just thing to do for immigrants and the right path forward for our country.” “Immigrants are essential to local economies and industries throughout our country, especially the hospitality industry. Today's actions show that local governments recognize that delaying the President's Executive Action not only harms millions of working families but also jeopardizes recovering local economies," said Peter Ward, President of the Hotel Trades Council. “Workers and their families desperately need the immediate implementation of President Obama’s Executive Action for immigration reform. We commend these cities and their elected officials for submitting an amicus brief in support of President Obama’s Executive Action, the most far reaching immigration reform initiative in decades. Cities make up the backbone of the U.S. economy, much of it based on the work of immigrants. Millions of hard working immigrant families stand to benefit from this action, and they deserve this administrative relief,” said Stuart Appelbaum, President of Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. “The AFL-CIO has made supporting real immigration reform one of our top priorities because we understand the importance of ensuring that all workers receive the wages and benefits to which they are entitled,” said Vincent Alvarez, President of the New York City Central Labor Council, AFL-CIO. “By allowing undocumented workers to come out of the shadows, we will be working to eradicate the tools that allow unscrupulous employers to drive down wages, and rob workers of fair pay, benefits, and workplace rights. The implementation of President Obama's immigration recommendations is already long overdue. Let's make this happen for New York City's workers.” “Immigrants, including many who would be eligible for work permits under President Obama's Executive Action, contribute every day to the vibrancy and health of our cities. The Executive Action will keep families together, boost our economy and focus law enforcement resources. We applaud Mayor de Blasio's? advocacy on behalf of these hard-working New Yorkers and join him in calling for immediate implementation of the action,” said Maria Castaneda, Secretary-Treasurer of 1199 SEIU. "We applaud Mayors de Blasio and Garcetti for leading the charge to demand immediate implementation of immigration relief to keep families together across the United States. As our communities demand action, scores of cities from coast to coast are stepping up and saying with one voice that the Court of Appeals must allow President Obama's administrative actions, which are grounded in strong legal precedent, to move forward," said Javier H. Valdés, co-Executive Director of Make the Road New York. “Very much like every major city in America, New York City is a strong and vibrant city thanks to our immigrant population,” said Jonathan Westin, Executive Director of New York Communities for Change. “Our cities are better when our immigrant brothers and sisters can thrive. Therefore, we urge the immediate implementation of the President’s Immigration Executive Action. Our cities have too much to lose if action is not taken now.” “We are proud that our city’s Mayor Bill de Blasio is setting a precedent by taking legal action and making it known that the delays to President Obama’s executive actions are unacceptable,” said Steven Choi, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. “The NYIC and our membership, along with our city and state partners including the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs, continue our efforts to prepare the 100,000 plus New Yorkers who can benefit from these programs. We stand with Mayors Bill de Blasio and Eric Garcetti in the call for immediate implementation of immigration relief.” "At a time when anti-immigrant voices are using myths about immigrants and the effects of immigration to derail a constructive national policy debate, few actions are more important than local governments uniting to fight for immediate relief and implementation of President Obama's Immigration Executive Actions. In outlining the economic and fiscal benefits of deferred action policies, New York City is a key stakeholder. Mayor Bill de Blasio has underscored once again our city's courage in the fight for justice and we stand in solidarity to see administrative relief programs take full-effect immediately," said Lucia Gomez, Executive Director of La Fuente. “The Asian American Federation fully supports Mayors de Blasio and Garcetti’s appeal to implement President Obama’s executive action without any further delay. Immigrants and their families, who have made valuable contributions to the U.S., deserve the temporary relief and protection that this immigration reform provides. We stand with our community to ensure that the President’s executive action sees the light of day,” said Jo-Ann Yoo, Executive Director of the Asian American Federation. "Millions of lives are on hold as President Obama's legal Executive Action is being dragged through the courts. Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights commends Mayors de Blasio and Garcetti for supporting legal action urging immediate implementation of Executive Action," said Angela Fernandez, Executive Director of Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights. "Immigration reform is vital for New York's African immigrant communities," said Amaha Kassa, Executive Director of African Communities Together. "All of our members have heard about President Obama's executive actions, many are qualified and ready to apply for relief, and none of them can understand why progress has been put on hold. This filing sends an important message that New York City has immigrants' backs, even if some states have chosen to send the opposite message.” “President Obama’s November, 2014 Deferred Action programs – both the DACA extension and DAPA – should be implemented now. With each passing day, families continue to be torn apart, leaving behind American children to fend for themselves. Hard-working immigrant parents live in fear and are preyed upon, and cannot become full members of our society. As the child of Mexican immigrant parents whose life dramatically changed after they received legal status via IRCA, the benefits of immigration relief to are society are clear to me. My parents became homeowners and were able to support three college graduates. I applaud Mayors De Blasio and Garcetti, along with the 70 cities and counties who have signed on, for their leadership and for lending their voice to challenge the Texas vs. United States lawsuit, said Aracelis Lucero, Executive Director of Masa, Inc. “Chicago has always been a city of immigrants, and for us to stay true to our history and our values, we must ensure that immigrants can fully participate in all aspects of our economic and cultural life,” said Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel. “We are proud to join numerous cities in filing this amicus brief to support President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. They will help keep families together, increase safety in our communities, and maximize the contributions that immigrants make every day in every part of our city.” “Cities are strongly affected by immigration. The old, dysfunctional immigration policies hurt our economies, our neighborhoods, our businesses and our residents. The President is attempting to interject common sense and humanity. We are grateful for his efforts and we stand with him,” said Portland Mayor Charlie Hales. “I am signing onto this brief because as a nation of immigrants, I believe ensuring access to a fair and legal process for people to come to this country and pursue their dreams reflects our highest values,” said Chapel Hill Mayor Mark Kleinschmidt. “We must do better to honor our country's proud immigration tradition. Too many immigrants live in fear, afraid to become members of our society, while Congress fails to take any meaningful action to fix a broken immigration system. Their inaction has real consequences for our communities, which is why I fully support President Obama's leadership and common sense executive actions. I thank Mayor de Blasio for initiating this brief and building this important coalition of leaders,” said Hoboken Mayor Dawn Zimmer. ###
03.27.2015	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed with overwhelming bipartisan support a bill – the Medicare Access and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2) – to reform the flawed Medicare physician payment system and extend both the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and the Community Health Centers Program. The bill includes several victories for low-income seniors, children, and working families: • A two-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program at the same rates set by the Affordable Care Act, to protect the health care of poor children. • Additional funding for initiatives that help low-income seniors pay their Medicare Part B premiums, which will help strengthen the quality of care for many older Americans. • Critical funding for community health centers over the next two years, expanding a vital investment in underserved communities. “The Medicare Access and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2) will help ensure physicians and seniors have the certainty they need from Medicare to provide and receive health care respectively in a reliable manner. It will also help ensure millions of children and families have access to the health care they need in their communities. This bipartisan bill marks an important victory in the fight to expand access to health care for seniors, children, and low income people and I am glad we were able to find common ground to see it through.” ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Serrano voted against the Republican “Work Harder for Less” budget and highlighted the negative impact that Republicans’ proposal for fiscal year 2016 will have on the people of New York – particularly seniors, workers, women, children, and minorities. “New Yorkers are tired of House Republicans’ wrong priorities and values when it comes to our country’s budget and government spending. With this proposal, Republicans have once again demonstrated whose side they are on – big money and special interests. The “Work Harder for Less” budget has a simple philosophy – increase tax breaks for the super-wealthy on the backs of hard-working Americans. “The Republican budget hits low-income and minority families the hardest, those who are already struggling to make ends meet in today’s tough economy. It fails to invest in areas that would help these families achieve the American dream and that would boost America’s economic competitiveness–education, health care, infrastructure, and job creation. This proposal is not founded on the right set of values. It stacks the deck against the working class and won’t help us build a strong and prosperous America. We need a budget like the one proposed by Democrats, one that reforms our tax system and reward Americans for their hard work and invest in the right priorities. ” Recent data from the White House exposes the full extent of the damage that House Republicans’ budget would do to New York seniors, students, women, and workers. Seniors. The GOP budget significantly undermines the economic and health security of seniors here in New York: • For a fifth consecutive year, Republicans’ plan would end the Medicare guarantee and raise health care costs for seniors; • Their plan also jeopardizes nursing home care for tens of thousands of New York’s seniors by slashing Medicaid funding for New York by $88.1 billion over the next 10 years due to the GOP block grant proposal; • 353,100 New York seniors and people with disabilities in Medicare would pay more for prescription drugs, because the Republican budget repeals the Affordable Care Act, thereby reopening the Medicare Part D donut hole. Workers, Women & Children The dangerous and irresponsible Republican budget threatens workers, women and children. For example, the Republican budget makes cuts in 2016, if non-defense cuts are applied across the board, that would result in, compared to the President’s budget: • 130,600 fewer New York residents receiving job training and employment services, including help finding jobs and skills training. • $229.9 million less funding in New York for Housing Choice Vouchers, resulting in 13,620 fewer families receiving these vouchers, which enable very low-income families to afford decent, safe, and sanitary housing in the private market. • Their plan also jeopardizes nutrition assistance for the 3,123,000 residents of New York who receive SNAP benefits (food stamps) to help them put food on the table, with more than 80 percent of SNAP benefits going to households with a child, senior, or disabled person. Education The House Republican budget ransacks our nation’s commitment to education – the foundation for economic opportunity and a successful future – with severe cuts in elementary and secondary education and early learning programs. For example, the budget makes cuts in 2016, if non-defense cuts are applied across the board, that would result in, compared to the President’s budget: • 2,333 fewer New York children in Head Start; • $103.2 million less funding in New York for disadvantaged students, an amount that is enough to fund 300 schools, 1,420 teacher and aide jobs, and 147,000 students. • $21.2 million less funding in New York to provide educational opportunities for students with disabilities, representing a 2.8 percent cut. The House Republican budget also makes college less affordable for millions of students who rely on Pell Grants, federal student loans, and higher education tax credits. • The reductions to Pell Grants in the GOP budget would reduce financial aid for the 494,000 New York students who rely on Pell Grants to afford college. Jobs & Hard-Working Families These devastating Republican cuts are not the only problem for America’s hard-working families in this budget. Under the Republican budget, middle class families will see higher taxes and millions will see fewer jobs: • The GOP budget will cause the loss of 2.9 million jobs in 2017 alone. • Republicans would raise taxes on the typical middle class family by $2,000 – to pay for a more than $200,000 tax break for millionaires. • At a time when families are living paycheck to paycheck, the GOP budget would stall our nation’s recovery by cutting economic growth by almost 2.5 percent in 2017. For a comparison between the Democratic and Republican budgets, visit: http://democrats.budget.house.gov/fact-sheet/democratic-budget-vs-gop-budget ###
03.25.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Chairman Crenshaw. I would like to join you in welcoming Judge Gibbons and Director Duff back before the subcommittee. Judge Gibbons has appeared before us numerous times, and while Director Duff has as well, this is his first time here since he returned to the position this past January. Welcome back, both of you. The Federal Judiciary, as the 3rd branch, is an integral part of our constitutional democracy. But it cannot properly function without the support of this committee. We have all seen the problems that sequestration caused for our federal court system, our pre-trial and post-release probationary services, and for our federal defenders, among others. Thankfully, both Members of both sides of the aisle have realized this, and have worked to restore the services and personnel lost by the Federal Judiciary due to sequestration. Last year's appropriations bill included an increase of $182 million over the prior year's appropriations, and your budget request for fiscal year 2016 continues the work to rebuild and invest in the future of our court system. However, as we consider this request, we are confronted with the same problem which caused such difficulties for the federal judiciary just a few years ago- sequestration. It is in the best interest of the federal court system, the American public, and our constitutional protections that we avoid repeating the damaging impact of a renewed sequester. As you know, I am also interested in ensuring that our federal defenders have sufficient funding to perform their important constitutional role that has been assigned to them. Most defendants in federal criminal trials depend upon the assistance of federal defenders, but the FD offices were highly impacted by the last round of sequestration, with numerous furlough days and staffing cuts. I understand that the federal judiciary has been in the process of reviewing the appropriate funding levels for our defenders, and I hope that we will see the results of that analysis soon. I am a strong believer in the procedural guarantees that our Constitution provides- access to a fair and speedy trial and the availability of counsel in criminal cases for those unable to afford it, to mention just two. But beyond that, the Federal judiciary plays an important role in pre-trial services, in determining sentencing guidelines, and in reducing recidivism through your probationary services. It is up to this committee to ensure these promises and protections- constitutional and statutory- have meaning. Once again, welcome, and I look forward to your testimony. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
03.24.2015	Washington, D.C. –On the fifth anniversary of the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, Congressman Serrano highlighted a new report released by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that shows that millions of people nationwide, including hundreds of thousands living in New York, are benefiting from this landmark legislation. “In only five years, millions of Americans have already benefited from the Affordable Care Act, including lower costs and better coverage,” said Congressman Serrano. “This includes millions of Latinos, African-Americans, women, young adults, seniors, and hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers. We celebrate all the progress that has been made in our public health thanks to the Affordable Care Act." Congressman Serrano celebrates the fifth Anniversary of the Affordable Care Act with Leader Pelosi and other members of Congress on the steps of the U.S. Capitol. (3/24/2015) Five years after President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act is working by: · Improving Coverage: Nationwide, since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, 16.4 million previously uninsured Americans have secured affordable, quality health coverage. · Improving Affordability: Since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, health care prices have risen at the slowest rate in nearly 50 years. Thanks to exceptionally slow growth in per-person costs throughout our health care system, national health expenditures grew at the slowest rate on record from 2010 through 2013. · Improving Quality: The Affordable Care Act has helped improve the quality of health care, contributing to 50,000 fewer patient deaths in hospitals due to avoidable harms, like an infection or medication error. The new report released by HHS shows all the different ways in which New Yorkers are benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. Data also demonstrates that Latinos, African-Americans, women young adults and seniors have particularly benefited the most from the historic legislation. From White House fact sheet: Key Facts on the 5th Anniversary of the Affordable Care Act · Young Adults Since 2010, 5.7 million young adults have gained coverage due to the Affordable Care Act’s provision allowing young adults to remain on a parent’s plan to age 26 and its broader expansion of coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplaces and Medicaid. · Women After five years of the Affordable Care Act, more than 16 million Americans have gained health coverage, with women likely making up more than half of these gains. · Latinos Since the start of the first open enrollment period, the uninsured rate declined across all race and ethnicity categories, but Latinos saw particularly large gains. Among Latino adults, the uninsured rate dropped by 29 percent (12.3 percentage points), resulting in 4.2 million people gaining coverage. · African-Americans Since the start of the first open enrollment period, the uninsured rate declined across all race and ethnicity categories, but African Americans saw particularly large gains. Among African American adults, the uninsured rate declined by 41 percent (9.2 percentage points), resulting in 2.3 million people gaining coverage. · Seniors The Affordable Care Act made many preventive services available to Medicare beneficiaries without cost sharing. An estimated 39 million people with Medicare (including those enrolled in Medicare Advantage) took advantage of at least one preventive service with no cost sharing in 2014 compared to 32.5 million in 2011. Furthermore, nearly4.8 million people with traditional Medicare took advantage of the Annual Wellness Exam in 2014. “As the number of ACA beneficiaries keeps increasing, it is astonishing that Republicans continue calling for a complete repeal of the Affordable Care Act,” Congressman Serrano added. “Instead, we should all be working together to successfully implement health care reform so that American families can continue having access to quality, affordable health care coverage regardless of their economic background or work situation. I will keep fighting in Congress to ensure all the provisions of the law are implemented and Bronxites have the health and economic security they deserve.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
03.24.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would like to join you in welcoming Chairman Wheeler and Commissioner Pai back before the subcommittee. We had an interesting hearing last year, and I expect this year's will be lively as well. The Federal Communications Commission plays an increasingly important role in our society and in our economy. As new technologies have developed, entire new industries and methods of communications have emerged. For television, radio, satellite, and the internet, the FCC is the vital link in ensuring fair competition, media diversity, and expanded access to these vital parts of our economy. Unfortunately, the subcommittee has hampered the ability to meet these challenges by forcing the FCC to operate with the same level of funding for the last two years. This is having serious negative effects on the FCC's enforcement capacity as well as its abilities to meet the demands of a rapidly changing environment. The agency is now operating at its lowest level of personnel in more than 30 years. That is incredible, if you think about it- over the past 30 years the FCC has had to regulate entire new industries, but we are only providing enough resources to regulate those that existed 30 years ago. The FCC has had to do much more with much less than is needed. If we make matters even worse and go back to sequester levels, then we are only courting disaster. In this context, I believe that your budget request is reasonable and necessary. As should be obvious over the past few months, there are numerous important and pressing issues that the FCC is dealing with beyond struggling with artificially low funding. I, for one, strongly applaud the Commission's actions last month to ensure net neutrality and an open internet. I firmly believe that it is of the utmost importance for consumers and businesses that they have assurances that their internet content and access will be treated the same way as everyone else's. This principle is of crucial importance to innovation in our country, and to consumers as well. In particular, I want to compliment your efforts to ensure that mobile devices are treated in the same manner as wired devices. A large number of Latinos and African-Americans only have access to the internet via their smartphones, and rules without these protections could have negatively affected their access to the internet. Additionally, I hope we have a chance to discuss smartphone theft and 'kill-switch' technology. Since last year's hearing, there has been some important progress on this issue, both at the FCC and within private industry. While I am pleased with these important steps forward, I believe having a clear, enforceable standard is the best way to ensure that smartphone theft continues to decline- and along with Senator Klobuchar, I plan to reintroduce the Smartphone Theft Prevention Act in the near future. I understand that you both have testified before Congress several times in the past few weeks, so some of these issues may be very familiar ground. However, I welcome you to this hearing, and I look forward to you testimony. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
03.23.2015	Washington, DC – Last week, Congressman José E. Serrano joined Congressmen John Lewis, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, James Clyburn, John Conyers, and Robert Brady in introducing the Voter Empowerment Act (VEA) as an original co-sponsor. The VEA, which was co-sponsored by more than 170 House Democrats, will modernize our country’s voting registration system to ensure every eligible voter has equal rights and equal access to the ballot box. The VEA has three main components: improving access, protecting the integrity, and ensuring accountability in the electoral process. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York will introduce similar legislation in the Senate. “Fifty years after Bloody Sunday and the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, we find ourselves revisiting old battles and fighting new efforts to restrict access to the ballot box. The Voter Empowerment Act is the most comprehensive voting rights and election administration legislation in Congress, and with it we reaffirm our commitment to protecting American’s constitutional right to vote and the integrity of our elections,” said Congressman Serrano. Since 2010, new measures that make it more difficult for millions of Americans to vote have been adopted in twenty-two states. These measures make it particularly harder for seniors, students, low-income people, disabled individuals, and those who speak English as a second language to exercise their right to vote. Making matters worse, in June of 2013, the Supreme Court invalidated a key provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 in Shelby County v. Holder that prevented certain states with a history of racial discrimination in voting from making any election changes without running them first by the Department of Justice. “The Voter Empowerment Act aims to modernize America’s voting system by taking advantage of existing technology, extending the early voting period, prohibiting deceptive practices and voter intimidation, and making voter registration easier by expanding the registration period and the methods used to register voters. The bill also sets polling place standards, provide training for poll workers, and establish a process to verify ballots to prevent voter fraud. As a longtime supporter of efforts to ensure every eligible American can vote, I am very proud to support a bill that protects a right that is “the crown jewel of American liberties” and at the very foundation of our democratic system. I urge Republicans to reject efforts to keep eligible Americans from voting and join us in passing this important legislation,” he added. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
03.19.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would also like to welcome Consumer Product Safety Commission Chairman Elliot F. Kaye and Commissioner Anne Marie Buerkle, who also happens to be my former colleague from the New York delegation. I thank you both for making the time to be here today. It has been several years since the CPSC has had a hearing before the committee, and I am glad to have the opportunity to discuss with you all the fiscal year 2016 budget request, and other issues of great importance to consumers. The CPSC has an important role to play in protecting consumers. It is responsible for ensuring that products for sale on the domestic market pose no safety hazards or threats to American consumers. Without CPSC’s supervision, the American market would be overrun by products that could cause significant deaths, injuries, and safety threats to consumers. Providing adequate funding to this agency should be a high priority to Congress. CPSC has made significant advances over the past several decades. Families and individuals have been spared great harm as a result of the agency’s work to recall household products, such as toys, baby products, and household cleaners, which are found to be defective and dangerous. This work cannot be accomplished without the staff CPSC employs. Unfortunately, employment within the agency has steadily declined over the past thirty years. It seems that budget constraints have impacted employment rates. The decrease in employment is particularly troubling to me as more and more products enter the market each year. I am especially concerned with CPSC’s ability to continue to provide consumers with necessary safety information and regulate new products in the growing market. The agency seeks to expand its Research and Development in the area of nanotechnology in this year's budget. Nanotechnology is being used to develop products from backpacks to toothbrushes. Currently, CPSC allocates a fraction of its spending on researching the consumer safety of nanotechnology. Approximately only .0013% of what the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of Defense (DOD) are spending on environmental health and safety research is available to CPSC to ensure that consumers are not harmed by products utilizing this technology. In the interest of getting CPSC ahead of the curve rather than behind it , I believe Congress should consider supporting more funding for this area. I would also like to express my concern for the need to increase CPSC’s presence at our borders. In the past few years alone, we have seen Chinese products come onto the U.S. market that have been defective and dangerous for American consumers. The CPSC has been diligent in the implementing the Section 222 of CPSIA in order to verify the safety of goods imported from abroad. However, it is imperative that taxpayer dollars are used to hire and train personnel who can work in conjunction with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to make certain that defective products do not make it into our homes. As a parent, a grandparent, and a consumer, I wholly support the work of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. I look forward to discussing these and other issues with you today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
03.18.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would also like to welcome Internal Revenue Service Commissioner John Koskinen back before the subcommittee. We are here today at a very serious time for the Internal Revenue Service. Last year, the IRS budget was cut by $346 million dollars, leaving the agency at the lowest level of funding since fiscal year 2008. Since fiscal year 2010, the IRS has been cut by more than $1.2 billion. And if some in the other party had had their way, they would have been cut even further. The results of these cuts are predictable. Is it a surprise to anyone that the IRS telephone response rates have plummeted? Is it news to anyone that the IRS is unlikely to collect as many taxes when we reduce their funding in such a ham-handed way? This subcommittee has a constant debate about the impact of additional dollars in the IRS's budget. But today we debate the converse- what is the impact of less dollars to the IRS and to this nation? We are already finding out. In this fiscal year, the cut of $346 million is expected to result in a $2 billion dollar reduction in taxes collected. The math is simple. For every dollar this subcommittee cut from the IRS last year, this country lost almost $6 dollars in tax revenue that is owed to it. These are not numbers that can simply be made up by efficiencies- no matter how hard people may try. That is not a sustainable course. As the responsibilities of the IRS grow, we simply cannot keep pretending the IRS can do more with less. The numbers already tell us that they cannot. And this brings me to the IRS's fiscal year 2016 budget request. Your budget requests significant investments in the agency to reverse the cuts sustained by the agency over these last few years. Your proposal plans to invest in much needed efforts to assist taxpayers, to fight against identity theft, to implement the Affordable Care Act and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, and to go after offshore tax cheats. From your proposed enforcement efforts alone, you expect to collect an additional $3.47 billion by fiscal year 2018. It is our job on the appropriations committee to vet the budget requests of the administration- and that is what we will do here today. But it is also our job to make sure that agencies have the resources to run effectively- and with regard to the IRS, we have failed in that responsibility. Moreover, the cuts to the IRS don't just impact the agency or even the American taxpayer- they impact our deficit. No one here can claim the mantle of fiscal responsibility if they plan to support excessive and harmful cuts to the very agency that brings in more than 90 percent of our revenue. It is time to stop punishing the IRS, and time to start reinvesting in the one part of the federal government that most Americans have an interaction with. Commissioner Koskinen, welcome back, and I look forward to your testimony. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
03.17.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join you in welcoming the Acting Administrator of the General Services Administration, Denise Turner Roth, before our subcommittee. With the recent departure of GSA Administrator Dan Tangherlini, the GSA is entering a time of transition, and Ms. Roth is leading the way. The GSA has undergone significant change in the past few years, some in response to scandal, and some in response to the changing needs of the federal government. The budget request for the General Services Administration in fiscal year 2016 attempts to continue these changes while providing some much needed investment in federally owned facilities around the nation. This year, GSA proposes significant new construction and repairs and alterations, including several significant repair projects in my hometown of New York. However, this new construction pales in comparison to the amount spent on the rental of space by the federal government. As you know, I have concerns about our efforts to ensure a better balance between leased and owned properties, so I hope to discuss this with you further. However, GSA is not just asking for appropriations for this fiscal year. The request also asks for significant advanced appropriations, which this committee has found problematic in other areas in the past. Given the current climate here, I think it will be difficult to fulfill that request. I would also be interested in discussing with you the ongoing problems that the Puerto Rico Federal Courthouse project in San Juan has been experiencing with their renovation project. I know that there have been efforts to get the project back on line in terms of the time frame and cost, but I remain troubled that this project has gotten so off track. Lastly, I would be remiss if I did not mention the specter of sequestration that is once again looming over us. GSA was badly hurt by sequestration last time, with significant construction and repair projects left languishing. This, in turn, hurt private sector job growth, since many companies that otherwise would have contracted with the federal government were unable to do so. I hope that we can find a sequester solution that avoids these harsh problems and continues our economic growth. As I said last year, GSA is the federal government's landlord, architect, facilities manager, procurer, and supplier. In all of these diverse roles, GSA plays a critical role in ensuring government efficiency and effectiveness. I look forward to discussing how your fiscal year 2016 budget accomplishes these goals. Thank you. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
03.17.2015	NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio today announced the second phase in the expansion of Pre-K for All is off to a strong start, with 21,938 families applying for free, full-day, high-quality seats in the first day—up from 6,500 in the first day of applications last year. This year, for the first time, every four-year-old in New York City will have access to this life-changing educational opportunity, with roughly 70,000 children expected to enroll. Last fall, New York City enrolled more than 53,000 children in full-day pre-K at district schools, charter schools, and NYC Early Childhood Centers. This year’s expansion means more programs, seats and opportunities in every borough and neighborhood, ensuring enough capacity to accommodate every child, regardless of zip code or means. Because of free Pre-K for All programs, the average family saves more than $10,000 each year in childcare costs. “We’ve made Pre-K for All the centerpiece of our vision for a more fair and equal city. Today is the culmination of a commitment we made to every family that we would open this door of opportunity to every child. Come September, more children than ever will walk through the doors of our district schools and Early Education Centers on a path that will help them succeed in their education and beyond. And their families will have peace of mind that there is a free, safe and enriching place for their children to grow and thrive,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “College readiness starts in pre-K, and with the expansion of this critical program, we are putting more students on the path to higher education and a meaningful career,” said Schools Chancellor Carmen Farina. “Four-year-olds are learning new vocabulary, experimenting with science and making friends. Every child deserves this opportunity, and we are delivering for all families across the city.” “This year, more children than ever will walk into a full-day pre-K classroom and start on a path that will change their lives for the better. We know a child who has access to full-day pre-K gets the tools they need to do well in school. To every parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle or guardian: this is one of the most important decisions you will ever make for a child. Don’t wait—start your child on the right path today,” said Deputy Mayor Richard Buery. “We are proud to participate in the expansion of this unprecedented City initiative that ensures young children across New York City reap the benefits of early learning, and prepares them for a lifetime of success,” said Administration for Children’s Services Commissioner Gladys Carrión. “Not only are we educating our youngest residents, but we are providing critical services to families that will support the well-being of all our children, enabling them to realize their full potential in school and beyond.” The City applied rigorous standards to every program in order to build a single, high-quality system—including educational assessments, interviews with faculty and inspections of the proposed physical space. Only 55 percent of programs that applied to host Pre-K for All were accepted because of these exacting criteria. Finding a program and enrolling are easier than ever this year. Families use a single application to apply for and rank up to a dozen choices among both district schools and New York City Early Education Centers. The application will be translated into nine languages, and additional translation services are available over the phone in more than 200 languages. Families will be notified as additional seats become available and are encouraged to check for updates. Families that apply by the deadline will receive offers in early June. Over the next six weeks, pre-K outreach teams are engaging families across the five boroughs, urging parents to apply and helping pre-K programs market themselves to parents. Enrollment specialists are prepared to counsel families through the application process and find the right program for them. The outreach campaign will also include a launch of advertisements on buses, bus shelters, digital media and the radio which will help direct families to the new streamlined application process. So far this winter, Pre-K for All outreach staff have made nearly 26,000 calls to parents and have held more than 700 information and promotion events. Borough Applicants Manhattan 2,202 Bronx 3,785 Brooklyn 6,251 Queens 7,700 Staten Island 1,965 "Early childhood education has been proven to close the achievement gap," said Speaker Mark-Viverito. "The streamlined application process with applications available in nine different languages is an innovative way for parents to enroll their children in pre-K and take charge of their child's education. I want to thank Mayor Bill de Blasio and my colleagues for their continued commitment to making early education accessible to all New Yorkers." "Education is the most powerful tool with which we can equip our children. There’s no better time to start opening the door to a brighter future than with Pre-kindergarten and this year our City has made it even easier for parents to access and apply. I applaud the Mayor, Chancellor, and his Administration for keeping their promise of a better education for all New Yorkers and look forward to seeing even more desks filled with bright young minds this coming school year," said Public Advocate Letitia James. “Universal pre-kindergarten is one of those major steps forward that will shape our city for years to come,” said Manhattan Borough President Gale A. Brewer. “As Year Two approaches we must improve on what we’ve achieved so far. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for implementing a single, integrated online application to help parents find and apply for seats at district schools, Early Education Centers, and charter schools simultaneously. I will continue to work with Mayor de Blasio to add seats where we need them, and to help our city’s families get the most out of this transformative program.” "Education is the key that unlocks a child's potential. Unlocking that potential at an earlier age is not a luxury, it is a necessity to closing the opportunity gap and ensuring the kind of holistic development that social scientists have proven is a difference-maker in our young people's futures. Mayor de Blasio has committed this entire city to the challenge of providing universal pre-kindergarten for every one of our four-year-olds, and we are on the cusp of that transformational reality. I am proud to partner with him on this expansion of this initiative in Brooklyn," said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “Education starts at an early age and I applaud Mayor Bill de Blasio for expanding Pre-K programs throughout The Bronx and New York City,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. “Free universal pre-K programs not only save parents money but it gives children a much-needed jumpstart in creating the necessary educational foundation that will propel them to a brighter future. I look forward to working with the Department of Education to help implement this program in The Bronx, giving our youth the necessary scholastic tools needed to succeed in life.” “Every child deserves a pre-K seat, and this year's expansion has ensured universal access for every four-year-old in New York City,” said Queens Borough President Melinda Katz. “Early childhood education is invaluable in shaping our children's future, and we urge every family to take advantage of this opportunity.” “I urge every family with a pre-kindergarten-aged child to sign up for pre-kindergarten now,” said Council Member Daniel Dromm, Chair of the City Council Education Committee. “Last year 53,000 young New Yorkers were enrolled in all-day pre-K. This year we are expecting up to 70,000 enrollees. All day pre-kindergarten gives children an incredible educational foundation that benefits them throughout their school years. I applaud Mayor de Blasio and Chancellor Fariña for this hugely successful new program.” “I applaud our Mayor's ongoing dedication to make education accessible and available to all, including our youngest ones. Preschool is very crucial in a child's development and key to building a strong foundation. Pre-K for All is not only an essential investment in the future of our children but also of our great City. We are strongest when everyone has an equal shot at achieving success,” said Congressman Charles B. Rangel. “One of the most important investments we can make in our children’s future is to provide them with a quality early education program so they get off to the right start,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “I’m pleased to see the City expand the enrollment for Universal Pre-K to ensure more working families can take advantage of this incredible opportunity that puts our children on a path to success.” “As a former school teacher, I know how important it is for children to begin their education early in life,” Congressman Eliot Engel said. “The push for truly universal pre-k has been a cornerstone of Mayor de Blasio’s tenure, and his commitment to growing the program has the potential to transform our education system. I am pleased to hear that this year there will be enough open seats in the fall pre-K program for every four-year-old in New York City, and I strongly encourage every parent of an eligible child to take advantage of this wonderful opportunity during the open enrollment period starting on April 24th.” “Every child deserves the opportunity to receive a quality early childhood education. I am pleased that Mayor de Blasio has expanded pre-K in New York City. Giving every family this opportunity ensures that more kids in New York City will have the foundation necessary for academic success,” said Congressman Steve Israel. “Full day pre-K for every child of New York City has long been a goal, and now it’s a reality,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “This important initiative will reduce the financial burden on working families and enrich the lives of every child it touches. When we invest in our youngest children, we see the rewards for decades to come. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for making universal pre-K a priority and following through on his promise.” “Providing universal preschool education to children free of charge will improve the future of thousands of children, giving them an educational and social foundation upon which they can grow and thrive. It will also save parents on average more than $10,000 a year and allow them to go to work knowing their child is learning in a safe environment. Expanding access to high-quality early education assures a better future for our children and our nation as a whole. I encourage parents in New York City to take advantage of this tremendous opportunity. I applaud Mayor de Blasio and others committed to improving early childhood education programs in New York City,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. "I’m proud to be a long-time supporter of universal pre-K, and I congratulate Mayor de Blasio and Chancellor Fariña on the program's inaugural year, where 53,000 children participated in full day free pre-K. Next school year it’s estimated that 70,000 children will enroll, and I encourage all parents to apply now during the open enrollment season to take advantage of this wonderful opportunity for children throughout our City,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “Today marks a great victory for the New York City Department of Education. The expansion of free, high-quality pre-K for every child in the city next year means more children will get the opportunity to access a good early education. This is especially important for underserved communities, which oftentimes lack early education programs or have limited capacity in them. All of our children should be able to receive the educational foundation and tools they need to lead a fulfilling and successful life. I applaud Mayor de Blasio’s efforts to see this initiative through; NYC is showing the rest of the nation that universal pre-K enrollment can be achieved,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “Statistics have shown that pre-K programs help prepare children for academic success and greater opportunity later in life. I’m pleased to see the expansion of this educational opportunity and encourage all working families to utilize these services,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez. Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said “As longstanding supporters of early childhood education and quality, universal pre-kindergarten, the Assembly Majority is proud that four-year-olds across the City of New York will now have access to full day pre-K programs. This expansion is a great investment in the future of our families and communities and I commend the Mayor de Blasio for his leadership and commitment to putting our youngest New Yorkers on the Road to Success.” “Universal Pre-K puts children on a path to educational excellence. The expansion and continuation of this successful program provides every child in our city the opportunity they deserve. I'm proud that I championed $300 million a year for UPK last year and continued funding this year,” said State Senate Coalition Co-Leader Jeff Klein. “Every child seeks out new and exciting things. From their first steps, to graduation and life in the workforce, they are all driven by a need to know, explore and learn. Our educational system will only be as good as the opportunities they have to seek out and learn new things. To instill a lifelong love of learning, those opportunities must be made available as early and as often as possible. This is the intent of pre-K. It’s a guarantee that every child, regardless of status or income, is given the opportunity to do what is in their nature,” said State Senator Martin Malavé Dilan. "The expansion of access to pre-K is great news for New York City's children and families. The importance of early childhood education to future achievement is well established. By ensuring today's children have access to pre-K, the de Blasio administration is taking a pro-active approach to expanding opportunity for all New Yorkers," said State Senator Liz Krueger. State Senator Jose Peralta said, “Our children are the present and the future, and they deserve all the support we can provide them with. That’s why we must make sure every child in our city has access to free and universal pre-K. I strongly support Mayor Bill de Blasio’s expansion of full-day pre-K in New York City and I want to thank him for his administration's efforts so no child is left behind. Our children’s education is the best bet we can play to make sure we reach a society where everyone has access to the same opportunities. Investing in pre-K is investing in a brighter future for all of us, especially for our kids.” “I commend Mayor de Blasio for his unyielding and visionary commitment to full-day Universal Pre-Kindergarten (UPK) for every single child in New York City. Educational equality is one of the fundamental cornerstones that will allow us to transform all other levels of inequality that persist in our society. I am very proud that less than one year after authorizing and funding UPK in the State Budget—our City is aggressively expanding programs and services to ensure that every single child is well served and every single family is empowered,” said State Senator Bill Perkins. “The expansion of Universal Pre-K is a welcome next step in the life of the initiative. It guarantees more and more children and families will have access to quality education at an early age and reduce the burden on parents during the day. The City will see dividends from this program for years to come. I stood by the Mayor before on this program and am proud to support his continued commitment to all our families in our City,” said Assemblywoman Rodneyse Bichotte. “It’s never too early to begin your child’s education and this great opportunity – made available by Mayor Bill de Blasio and the New York City Department of Education – will help families throughout the Bronx and New York City achieve this goal,” said Assemblywoman Latoya Joyner. “Starting today, if your child was born in 2011, you can enroll them into the free, first-rate pre-K program for the 2015-2016 school year and essentially jump-start their educational development during a key time in their formative years.” Assemblyman Brian Kavanagh said, "I was proud to work with Mayor de Blasio and my colleagues in Albany last year to fund the very successful launch of Universal Pre-K, a huge step toward ensuring educational opportunity and economic equity for all of New York City's families. It's great that the Mayor and the Department of Education are expanding the program this year to help even more of our children thrive." “Universal Pre-K is such a remarkable opportunity not only for our children but for us as parents. Universal Pre-K affords our children such a phenomenal education at an early age while parents are secure in the knowledge that their children are also in a safe environment which will cultivate their future” said Assemblyman Walter T. Mosley. “New York City continues to lead the way in providing outstanding pre-K service, and I’m proud to support Mayor de Blasio and his administration as they take another strong step in expanding this transformational program,” said Council Member Margaret Chin. “Residents of my Lower Manhattan district will be very excited to see additional pre-K seats coming to our community in the upcoming school year, and I look forward to continuing to work with the Mayor’s Office to support and expand pre-K in our city.” “The expansion of UPK will give more children access to the vital early childhood services they need in order to develop skills to grow and succeed. Pre-K for All, which can save families more than $10,000 a year in childcare costs, means that many parents will not have to take on a second job, or forego necessities in order to send their child to pre-kindergarten. I am grateful to Mayor de Blasio for making our children and their education a priority, and I look forward to continuing to work together to expand and enhance UPK for all schoolchildren,” said Council Member Chaim Deutsch. “For the first time, every four-year-old child in New York City is on a path to success with the implementation of free Pre-K for All. These programs are equipping our children with the foundation to a life changing educational opportunity,” said Council Member Inez E. Dickens. “It is extremely important that every child is accommodated, regardless of zip codes or means, with high-quality, free pre-k because our children are our future.” “I am so pleased that every parent in New York City will now have the chance to register their children in pre-K classes this fall. It is a well-known fact that children who attend pre-K move forward in life achieving at a higher academic level and experiencing greater success in the workforce than those who were never enrolled. As the Chair of the Youth Services Committee and someone who has a lifelong commitment to improving educational opportunities for all of our young people, I commend Mayor de Blasio for his commitment to making pre-K education a reality for every child in our city,” said Council Member Mathieu Eugene. "Pre-K is an important step in providing our kids with an early quality education, and I hope that all interested parents learn about and take advantage of this opportunity," said Council Member Daniel Garodnick. "The lasting impact of early childhood education simply cannot be overstated. This year’s expansion represents Mayor de Blasio's unprecedented commitment to providing every eligible four-year-old in New York City with access to free, full-day, high-quality pre-K. The expansion will ensure that all families, regardless of income, will have access to high-quality early education opportunities so their children can enter kindergarten prepared for success. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for making this critical investment in the future of our great city," said Council Member Vincent Gentile. “Pre-kindergarten provides children with a strong and solid foundation that will lead them to academic and personal success,” said Council Member Vanessa L. Gibson. “I want to applaud the leadership and commitment of Mayor de Blasio, Chancellor Fariña, and the New York City Council for their investment in education as NYC can now proudly provide this life changing resource to children, making our students more productive to lead successful lives. I urge parents of eligible-age children to take advantage of this tremendous opportunity to empower their children and enroll them in pre-K classes." “All children deserve a fair start, and now, 70,000 children will get one,” said City Council Member Ben Kallos. “Our city has become a national leader in family-friendly policy. I watched my single mother work hard, and at times, struggle. Because of Universal Pre-K, thousands of working families will have it easier. I look forward to assisting in expanding the program in yet more neighborhoods.” “Monday was a great day in our city’s quest to raise achievement and reduce inequality across all communities as Universal Pre-K enrollment for the fall rolled out throughout the city. This critical year of instruction has been a godsend to the families of the more than 50,000 young people enrolled this year, and I applaud the expansion of seats during this new application season as we move toward true equity in educational opportunity in New York City,” said Council Member Andy King. "Universal Pre-K has been a resounding success for my district and the city as a whole," said Councilman Rory I. Lancman, "This year's expansion will lead to even more opportunity for our children." “New York City is on its way to a historic moment for its youngest residents – the realization of Mayor de Blasio’s universal pre-K program,” said Council Member Brad Lander. “Last year we saw the high demand and strong start of the universal pre-K program, and this year, with more programs, more seats, and more opportunities, even more four-year-olds will start their education right. Thanks to Mayor De Blasio’s impressive leadership and focus on this issue, our city has ensured that students of all backgrounds can afford the strong start they need to begin their educational paths.” “Every child in New York City from every community deserves full day pre-kindergarten. Universal pre-kindergarten is a game changer for families throughout our City and I want to thank Mayor de Blasio for making it a priority in his Administration,” said Council Member Stephen Levin. "The expansion of full-day pre-K to all New York children means more than simply registering more kids to open seats – it means expanding opportunities for children and their parents. I commend Mayor de Blasio and his administration for their attention to universal early education. I am committed to working in partnership with the Administration to ensure that families in District 38 will not have to choose between full-time work and child care; they can and should have both," said Council Member Carlos Menchaca. “Part of ensuring that our children have the tools to become successful adults is by providing access to quality Pre-K programming for all children in New York City. I am thrilled that Pre-K is being further expanded, as it helps instill the fundamental skill sets that will enable children to be successful students throughout their educational careers. I commend Mayor de Blasio, and his administration, for ensuring that every four-year-old child has access to a quality Pre-K program,” said Council Member Annabel Palma. "Early access to an education is an important factor for academic success later in life," said Council Member Donovan Richards. "As the child of young parents, local programs were instrumental in building a strong educational foundation in my own life. Fulfilling the promise to provide universal pre-kindergarten for tens of thousands of young children will give them a critical head start. I look forward to continued work with mayoral administration to support hardworking families and most importantly the future generations of New York City." “Early education is step one to getting our students on a pipeline to college rather than corrections. I commend Mayor De Blasio on today's announcement and look forward to the program's expansion in Northern Manhattan. In my district alone, we have increased the number of pre-K seats from less than 550 in the 2013-2014 school year to just under 2,000 seats and 2015 promises even more. Now more students than ever before will be more likely to graduate from high school, own their own homes, have their own savings accounts and go on to lead more productive lives,” said Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez. “Having worked for years to keep at-risk youth in school, I know first-hand the value of early childhood education, and as a mother and longtime education advocate, I’ve seen how key academic, cognitive and social skills are learned in the first years of life. I commend Mayor de Blasio for his dedication to this important issue, and for expanding access to include all four-year-olds in New York City this fall. For our city, the long-term effects of this program on both individuals and society will be immeasurable,” said Council Member Debi Rose. "Universal Pre-K is a terrific addition to the Department of Education's work to bring the joy of learning to children as young as 4 years old. I look forward to expanding UPK to even more children in my district this year," said Council Member Helen Rosenthal. “Every child deserves a strong start. I’m thrilled that this year in New York City, every four-year-old will have access to pre-k,” said Council Member Ritchie Torres. “For the 70,000 children expected to enroll, this means an increased chance of success in school and in life. And for many families, universal pre-k means much-needed savings on childcare costs.” "We salute Mayor de Blasio on this wonderful, and entirely under-reported, accomplishment. The implementation of NYC Universal pre-K demonstrates that government can truly make a positive difference in the lives of the people of our city, helping to ensure that every child gets to the starting line of life with a more equal chance of success. And to the right-wing naysayers who for 30 years have been claiming that government can't get anything right –well, this proves them flat-out wrong," said Chris Shelton, Vice President of CWA District One. “Universal pre-K means quality education for every four-year-old, regardless of what neighborhood they live in or who their parents are. For families, it means addressing the burdensome costs of education and daytime care for children before they reach kindergarten age. It isn't just a groundbreaking education policy, it is a groundbreaking policy to support working families too,” said George Miranda, President of Teamsters Joint Council 16. “The second year of the mayor's pre-K program is an important milestone for our city. This program is the cornerstone that restores New Yorkers' confidence in their government and assures us that we can improve the lives of our children and all New Yorkers if we have the political courage to do it,” said Communications Workers of America Local 1180 President Arthur Cheliotes. "It is a pleasure to see free universal pre-K come to fruition, especially when you have a four-year-old child like me. Thank you Mayor de Blasio, your vision empowers not only the children but helps the parents as well with an entire year of savings for their child's education," said Reverend Phil Craig, Senior Pastor of Springfield Community Church. “Early education is of the utmost importance. There is a vast need to educate young minds before being indoctrinated with a lot of negative things. As President of the Baptist Minister's Conference of Greater New York & Vicinity, we applaud the efforts of the Mayor in pushing for universal pre-K. You have our support,” said Reverend James D. Morrison. “Pre-K for All is breaking new ground in preparing tens of thousands of children for success in school. We encourage all parents of eligible children to take advantage of this important opportunity to start their education on the right foot,” said Kim Sweet, Executive Director of Advocates for Children of New York. "Quality, full-day pre-K can make a life-long difference in a child's life," said Zakiyah Ansari, Advocacy Director of the Alliance of Quality Education. "We are thrilled that more children will have the opportunity to benefit from free pre-K this fall. I applaud Mayor de Blasio's effort to secure pre-K for New York City's children. Now we need to see this same program spread throughout the state where it is still desperately needed. Every child should have the chance to gain from an excellent pre-K experience." "Mayor de Blasio’s pre-K program will help thousands of new immigrants children to access additional educational opportunities as well as to allow their parents to have more employment choices knowing that their children are in school," said Christopher Kui, Executive Director of Asian Americans for Equality. "Universal pre-K has been a dream for a long time for everyone who values a level playing field for our children and the rights of parents to be able to work knowing their young children are safe and learning. A Better Balance applauds Mayor de Blasio for making what has often seemed like an impossible dream a reality" said Sherry Leiwant, Co-President of A Better Balance. “This September, thousands of children who once lacked access to a high-quality early education will enter the classroom and begin on the path to success. We are proud to work with the City and the dedicated community-based providers who are working to expand these critical educational opportunities to the children and families who need them. Today, we are one step closer to providing all children with access to the safe, high-quality, and affordable early childhood education and after-school programs they deserve,” said the Campaign for Children, a coalition of 150 early childhood education and after-school advocacy and provider organizations. “The fact that we can offer high-quality, full-day pre-kindergarten to every four-year-old in a city of this size – and a city where one in three children lives in poverty – is an incredible accomplishment. When we invest in programs and services that are proven to help children and families thrive, all New Yorkers benefit,” said Jennifer March, Executive Director of Citizens’ Committee for Children. “Kindergarten and first grade have the highest number of English language learners of all grades in our K-12 education system. High-quality, full-day pre-K programs are essential to securing the future of young New York City children, particularly the young immigrant children who are learning more than one language at home. We applaud Mayor de Blasio’s vision to ensure every child has access to meaningful programs including immigrant children and dual-language learners,” said Steven Choi, Executive Director of the New York Immigration Coalition. “CHCF has been a longtime champion of increasing equitable access to high quality early education. We stand with Mayor de Blasio in his efforts to make Pre-K for All accessible to some of the most underserved communities in our city. We consider him a partner in truly prioritizing the needs of ALL four-year-olds and their families. We look forward to working with this administration in its shared commitment to responding to the changing needs of our diverse communities.” Grace C. Bonilla, President/CEO of The Committee for Hispanic Children & Families, Inc. "Asian Pacific American communities in New York City are enrolling their children in UPK, because they know what a difference an enriching educational experience means to their families. The Coalition for Asian American Children and Families is excited to continue to work with the de Blasio administration to achieve income equality for all New Yorkers and to level the playing field for all families. We applaud the expansion of UPK seats, and know that even more APA families will enroll their children in UPK," said Sheelah A. Feinberg, Executive Director of Coalition for Asian American Children and Families. “We applaud Mayor de Blasio for fulfilling his commitment to giving every four year-old access to full-day pre-K. This fall over 70,000 NYC children will be on the path to success and school readiness. This expansion further helps level the playing field for low-income children regardless of the neighborhood they live in," said Melanie Hartzog, Executive Director of the Children's Defense Fund New York. "The mayor’s initiative is a giant step towards fulfilling his promise to create one New York City. Universal Pre-K will ensure that that every child, in every community, has an early start and equal opportunity to fulfill his or her highest potential." Frances Lucerna, Executive Director of El Puente. “Mayor de Blasio campaigned on the promise to bring free full-day Universal Pre-K to all four-year-olds in this city! I'm so proud to say that he kept to his word and as of today, parents of all four year old children across this great city of ours can complete an application for full-day Universal Pre-K. My daughter-in-law and I just completed the application for my grandson Nigel! I'm so excited, and can't wait for him to begin his journey into public education! Thank you Mayor de Blasio.” said Ocynthia Williams, parent leader and organizer with Highbridge School Coalition. “By investing in free, universal pre-kindergarten, we have taken an enormous step toward correcting the alarming early educational disparities that have existed within the Latino community,” stated José Calderón, President of the Hispanic Federation. “We were ecstatic to see the brightly lit faces of our children walking through the public school doors last September for a seat in their new pre-K classrooms. This grand initiative will undoubtedly pay major dividends for our children, families and neighborhoods for generations to come." “Nonprofit human service providers have played a crucial role in pre-K expansion, and the sector applauds the Mayor for continuing to expand enrollment and offer pre-K to all of New York’s children. This is a huge step in providing bridges to opportunity for children and families, and community-based organizations are proud to partner with the Mayor in his vision to provide quality programs for children of all incomes across the city,” said Michelle Jackson, Associate Director, Human Services Council of New York. "As an alliance of schools and organizations working with Hunts Point students from birth to college, we strongly support expansion of the city's UPK programs to give every childhood in our neighborhood and the city an opportunity to start off on a strong educational path," said Krystal Reyes, Executive Director of Hunts Point Alliance for Children. “The research is clear,” said Vaughan Toney, President of The Friends of Crown Heights Educational Centers. “Quality UPK programs not only help children develop their early cognitive abilities but also yield enormous societal payoffs in later life, including higher college graduation and lower incarceration rates. Thanks to Mayor de Blasio, tens of thousands of our children of all backgrounds will now have unprecedented access to this critical ladder of opportunity.” “New York City’s settlement houses and community centers are proud to be part of the necessary work of ensuring that every child in New York City has access to high-quality, safe and affordable early childhood education.” said Nancy Wackstein, Executive Director of United Neighborhood Houses. “Expanding the pre-K system to 70,000 slots in just two years is a remarkable and historic achievement. We look forward to continuing to work with the de Blasio administration and communities in every neighborhood to provide care and education to the youngest New Yorkers.”
03.16.2015	Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $7.7 million will be distributed to seven health providers to support pre- and post-natal care for at-risk families. New York secured the funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service’s Maternal, Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV). “For new and expecting parents, having access to high-quality pre and post natal care is critical,” Governor Cuomo said. “This funding will go a long toward ensuring that this kind of care is available through community-based programs for at-risk families across the state. By supporting these programs, we are providing a vital service to those in need and working to keep some of the youngest New Yorkers healthy and strong.” New York’s MIECHV initiative works to improve the health and wellbeing of at-risk families by implementing proven home visiting programs. Through periodic home visits, home visitors assess pregnant women’s health and social and economic support needs, newborn’s health, school readiness as well as for the prevention of domestic violence and child abuse. Home visitors provide support and information to improve birth outcomes and connect families to needed services. Home visiting programs help guide families during the critical prenatal, newborn and early childhood periods. This initiative is a critical component of New York’s work to ensure that children have the best start possible. Currently, the MIECHV initiative serves 2,400 families a year through 10 home visiting projects, and with the additional $7.7 million in funding, it is estimated that seven new home visiting projects will be added to serve an additional 700 families a year over two-and-a-quarter-years. The seven new projects are: Applicant Target County Program AnnualAward Total Award Schenectady County Public Health Service Schenectady HFNY $400,000 $900,000 Sunset Park Health Council/Lutheran Family Health Centers Kings HFNY $700,000 $1,575,000 The Institute for Family Health Duchess HFNY $295,059 $663,883 Brookdale University Hospital Kings HFNY $382,162 $859,865 Comprehensive Interdisciplinary Developmental Services, Inc. Chemung NFP $398,498 $896,621 Montefiore Home Care Bronx NFP $640,000 $1,440,000 Morris Heights Health Center, Inc. Bronx HFNY $625,000 $1,406,250 Grand Total $3,440,719 $7,741,618 Acting New York State Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said, “Home visits by nurses, social workers and other trained professionals have proven to be very helpful to young families in at-risk situations. By bringing knowledge and services out into the communities, we are working to ensure that people have the tools to improve health and prevent abuse in the home. This award will allow us to expand upon our already successful programs and help hundreds more families achieve a happier and healthier home life.” Senator Charles E. Schumer said, “The Maternal, Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting program provides much-needed support, training and guidance to help at-risk families and expecting mothers better navigate the earliest days and years of life for a new child. From financial planning to the prevention of child abuse, the earlier we provide access to essential services, the better chance our children and young families have to succeed and thrive – and this smart federal investment will do just that. I will continue to do all I can deliver resources to help new mothers and New York’s families succeed.” Congressman Charles B. Rangel said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo's commitment to ensuring that mothers have the assistance they need to raise their children in a safe environment. The vital funding from HHS will allow New Yorkers to receive essential healthcare and social support through the new home visiting projects across our state, including two in the Bronx. By providing basic resources to expecting and new mothers, we are not only investing in the wellbeing of the family but also helping to create stability in the home.” Congressman Eliot Engel said, “The Federal funds the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has granted to expand New York’s Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program will help bring needed medical and social services into the homes of many at-risk families who otherwise would not have easy access to them. Hundreds of New York families will benefit from this grant and I thank Governor Cuomo for his efforts to support this program.” Congressman José E. Serrano said, “Thanks to this federal funding, more pregnant women and their families in the Bronx will be able to count on the support they need to have a successful pregnancy, lead healthy lives, and achieve economic self-sufficiency. They will receive these services from the comfort of their home, without having to go through the hassle of getting to a health clinic or doctor’s office. I applaud the New York State Department of Health’s efforts to expand these important services that help ensure pregnant women in our community are safe and supported throughout their pregnancy, and that are so necessary for our families’ well-being.” Congressman Jerrold Nadler said, “I have long been a strong supporter of the Mother, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program (MIECHV), which provides critical support and guidance to ensure New York families are healthy, strong, and safe. With this new federal funding, many more families will have access to these necessary services, and New York will continue to be a leader in supporting children and families.” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez said, “These programs ensure working families in New York can access valuable health and social services. I’m pleased to see federal resources dedicated to these initiatives, particularly in Sunset Park.” Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke said, “By expanding access to home visits by nurses and social workers, Governor Cuomo and the New York State Department of Health will provide resources to families and children at a time when those resources – such as health assessments, referrals for social services, preparation for school, and abuse prevention – are most critical to the their development. I am committed to collaborating with Brookdale University Hospital in the Ninth Congressional District of New York to assure the successful implementation of this invaluable program.” Congressman Paul Tonko said, “This announcement is great news for the most vulnerable families in our communities. Expanded support for these households will go a long way to meet the most pressing health and wellness needs of women, newborns, and infants – needs that could turn into long-term issues for individuals and the community as a whole. I thank Governor Cuomo for his recognition of the challenges we face in Schenectady County as the establishment of this center will benefit the entire Capital Region.” Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney said, “The Institute for Family Health provides a comprehensive approach to maternal and child healthcare in the Hudson Valley, and this investment is critical to meeting the needs of our most vulnerable children and families.” In addition to the grant for the expansion of New York State’s MIECHV, DOH was also awarded $6.3 million in formula-based federal funding to allow for the continuation of current programs through 2017. More information about New York State’s MIECHV is available here. ###
03.16.2015	NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio and Police Commissioner William J. Bratton today announced the deployment of new gunshot detection technology that will decrease officer response times to gunshot incidents and enhance community and public safety. NYPD will pilot the ShotSpotter system in five zones of approximately three square miles each located within various precincts in the Bronx and Brooklyn. The first pilot area to go operational on Monday, March 16, 2015 will be in the Bronx. “Thanks to the NYPD, New York City continues to be the safest big city in the world—and this technology will help us stay even safer. Today’s announcement builds on the department’s long tradition of introducing pioneering techniques to reduce crime, and will transform the way the NYPD responds to gunshot activity in our neighborhoods. ShotSpotter will help protect our residents, our communities, and our police officers,” said Mayor de Blasio. “Gunshot detection technology like ShotSpotter will add yet another tool to the NYPD’s technological crimefighting capabilities. It will enable us to respond to shooting incidents in a more timely manner, and provide us with the ability to help victims, solve crimes and apprehend dangerous suspects more quickly. The NYPD thanks the various civic and community partners that helped make this project finally happen in New York City,” said Commissioner Bratton. Since April 2014, the NYPD has been working with the company ShotSpotter to bring the technological capabilities required for a gunshot alert and analysis system to New York City. Similar systems are already in use in Washington, DC, Newark, NJ, East Orange, NJ, Plainfield, NJ, Atlantic City, NJ, Camden, NJ, and Nassau County, NY. The ShotSpotter system triangulates the location of a gunshot to within 25 meters of where the shot was fired. The system then forwards a notification to an incident review center where a trained operator reviews the audio file to determine if the sound was that of a gunshot or some other similar-sounding audio incident (e.g. fireworks, engine backfiring, etc.). Once the incident is determined to be a gunshot, an alert is sent to the NYPD via the Domain Awareness System (DAS). This alert includes relevant information such as number of shots fired, location of the gunshot (including map access), if the shooter was moving at the time of the incident (such as in a vehicle), and the direction of the shooter’s movement. Upon receipt of such an alert, the NYPD can dispatch units to the location of the shooting. This technology will allow the NYPD to dispatch officers to the exact location of a shooting, rather than a general area, which has potential to save valuable time and resources and increase the likelihood that the shooter will be identified and caught, victims will receive aid, and evidence and witnesses will be available. ShotSpotter has the potential to allow police officers to effectively and efficiently respond to gunshot incidents that may otherwise go unreported to the police. Based on the results of the pilot program, NYPD anticipates incorporating the ShotSpotter alerts in the DAS mobile application, allowing officers to receive alerts directly on their smartphone or tablet devices. The ShotSpotter system gives the NYPD the ability to use technology in an intelligent and strategic way by giving police officers immediate access to the most accurate information available. “It is important to be creative in our approach to address public safety,” said Chair of the Committee on Public Safety, Council Member Vanessa L. Gibson. “The new ShotSpotter technology will allow officers to cut down on response times and build upon their existing resources. By providing valuable, real-time information, ShotSpotter will assist officers in addressing every instance of potential gunfire. I am thankful to Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Bratton for their commitment to innovative technology and thank all of the partners who assisted in bringing the ShotSpotter system to the City of New York.” "As a 22-year NYPD veteran, I know that when it comes to public safety, we must continue to innovate to stay one step ahead of those seeking to do harm to civilians and police officers. Mayor de Blasio and NYPD Commissioner Bratton have embraced this philosophy time and again, and their decision to bring the ShotSpotter system to Brooklyn and New York City will improve the investigative abilities of New York's Finest, getting criminals off the streets sooner. I look forward to continued work with this Administration on exploring additional technologies that can reduce violence and save lives," said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. "Technology such as the ShotSpotter system can only help our police department keep crime down in The Bronx and New York City," said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr."Our community is of utmost importance and today we see that commitment to build on the efforts to secure safety for residents and police officers. The ShotSpotter system is an extremely useful investigative tool that will aid the men and women of the New York Police Department in keeping our streets safe and help reduce gun violence throughout our borough. We thank New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and New York Police Department Commissioner William Bratton for implementing this technology and finding new ways for our police department to stay ahead of those individuals who want do harm in our city." "The implementation of this new technology shows Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Bratton's continuing dedication to making our City safer. I am optimistic that the ShotSpotter system can aid in transforming the way the NYPD responds to crime, helps victims, and enhances public safety. I look forward to seeing the results of the first trial program in the Bronx," said Congressman Charles Rangel. “We all know that every second counts when lives are at stake,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “That’s why implementing new technology that helps reduce the NYPD’s response time to potential gunshots is critical and of tremendous value. I applaud the department for their commitment to continuously finding new ways to fight crime and keep our communities safe.” “It is imperative that we in government do everything possible to help law enforcement in the battle against gun violence,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “ShotSpotter technology will reduce response times to gunshot incidents, allowing our police officers and first responders to react more quickly to dangerous situations. I applaud Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Bratton for working to bring ShotSpotter to New York City, as the system will make our communities safer.” “New York’s new gunshot detection technology has the ability to reduce response time when shots are fired,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “It will ensure our officers know exactly where and when gunshots are fired, and that can make the difference in terms of saving lives and catching the bad guys. I applaud the city and the NYPD for working to marshal technological improvements to advance the safety of our city.” “ShotSpotter will allow the New York City Police Department (NYPD) to respond to emergencies and solve crimes involving a shooting incident more quickly and efficiently. Thanks to this innovative technology, New York City police officers will be able identify and know exactly where a gunshot took place and take action immediately. I applaud Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Bratton’s efforts to ensure the NYPD remains at the forefront of technology to keep New York City residents and visitors as safe as possible,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. State Senator Marty Golden, a former New York City Police Officer, stated, "With the increase in shootings throughout our City, I commend Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner Bratton for instituting an advanced program that will assist us in quickly apprehending the perpetrators involved. The strides we have made in reducing crime must continue, and cognizant of this spike in shootings, the City is taking the right steps so to insure New York City remains the safest large city in America." "I commend the Mayor and NYPD for continuing to employ technological advances in the interests of public safety and crime fighting,” said State Senator Andrew Lanza. "I commend the de Blasio administration and Commissioner Bratton for using every resource at our disposal to combat gun violence, including this cutting-edge technology that will speed up response times and hopefully get guns – and the bad guys that use them – off our streets," said Council Member Rory Lancman. "On average 32 people in America die from gun violence each day, so I applaud Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Bratton for attempting innovative ideas to address the issue in New York City. This pilot program has the potential to decrease officer response times to gunshot incidents and focus police resources to specific areas of need. It is my hope that with innovative policing tactics like Shot Spotter, along with multi-pronged, comprehensive solutions at a grassroots level, our city, state and country will become a safer place for all,” said Council Member Jumaane D. Williams, Deputy Leader and Co-Chair of the Council's Taskforce to Combat Gun Violence. "ShotSpotter has proven to be a great new tool for Pittsburgh police and neighborhoods, and it is great to see it being adopted in more cities around the country. The system often alerts our police to crimes in progress before they are reported to 911, and gives residents in communities targeted by gun violence extra confidence that we are doing all we can to protect them swiftly and accurately." said Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto. ###
03.16.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you Chairman Crenshaw. I would like to join you in welcoming Shaun Donovan, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, to this hearing. OMB plays a unique role in preparing the President’s budget and in making sure that agency budget requests are consistent with the President’s priorities. In addition, OMB monitors the implementation of government programs by reviewing their performance, coordinates and reviews all significant federal regulations, and oversees cross-cutting government-wide issues like IT performance and procurement. In all of these areas, OMB improves the efficiency and effectiveness of the federal government as a whole. Because of this, your budget request, while somewhat small compared to other agencies under our jurisdiction, has a wide-ranging impact. Your request for FY 2016 totals $97.4 million. This includes a relatively small increase of $5.7 million to help ensure you have the personnel and the tools necessary to meet these numerous responsibilities. The President’s fiscal year 2016 budget, prepared with your counsel, creates a strategic plan that strengthens our economy and invests in working families by improving access to early and higher education as well as affordable healthcare, investing in our infrastructure, and partnering with local communities and business to create good-paying jobs and affordable housing. I commend OMB for your role in these efforts. Additionally, OMB plays a pivotal role in ensuring our federal agencies and employees have the resources needed to do their jobs. Because of the sequester, federal employees have had to shoulder a large portion of the budget cuts, and many federal workers have sought better opportunities in the private sector. I am particularly pleased that the President’s FY 16 budget seeks to end the sequester in order to fund strategic investments that strengthen our competitiveness in the global economy. I am also interested in hearing about the current progress being made on the implementation of the DATA Act and how this subcommittee can be of help in providing the resources necessary in order for OMB to effectively comply with the statute’s reporting requirements. I hope we will have a chance to discuss all these issues in further detail today. Thank you for your service and for appearing before this subcommittee. I look forward to hearing about your priorities for FY 2016. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
03.13.2015	The Bronx, NY- Congressman José E. Serrano joined hundreds of 32BJ SEIU residential workers on Wednesday March 11 at a rally outside Bronx Borough Hall to demand fair wages and work benefits. Thousands of residential service workers who work in over 1,000 apartment buildings in the Bronx are currently renegotiating their contracts with their employers. “Our community’s hardworking people deserve access to fair wages and benefits that allow them to meet their basic needs, provide for their families, and plan for their future,” said Congressman José Serrano. “We need to make sure residential workers are fairly compensated and are offered the health care and retirement benefits they need to continue living and working in New York City. Today, I stand in solidarity with all the workers and families who believe in a strong and sustainable Bronx where everyone benefits from the change and transformation taking place in our neighborhoods.” CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano stands in solidarity with members of 32BJ SEIU at a rally outside Bronx Borough Hall to demand fair wages and work benefits. (03/11/2015) Yesterday, Congressman Serrano joined other members of Congress, community activists, and advocates to call for action on climate change and launch Takesides.org, a new coalition of Latino, Black, and other working class communities and community organizations. “Environmental pollution and degradation have consistently been proven to have the worst impact on minority communities. It’s time to join efforts and take action to make sure Latinos and other minority groups’ needs and concerns are taken into consideration as we address climate change. As a longtime advocate of environmental justice and the greening of urban areas, I’m proud to join Takesides.org to launch this important campaign,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. CAPTION: Congressman Serrano stands with NYC members of Congress, community activists and advocates to call for action on climate change and launch Takesides.org (03/12/2015) Today, Congressman Serrano spoke at the Community Advisory Boards (CABs) of Lincoln Medical Center, Morrisania Diagnostic and Treatment Center, and Segundo Ruiz Belvis Diagnostic and Treatment Center Eleventh Annual Legislative Summit. The purpose of the summit is to develop a comprehensive legislative agenda and action plan to improve healthcare in the Bronx taking in consideration residents’ needs. CAPTION: Congressman José E. Serrano speaks at the Community Advisory Boards (CABs) of Lincoln Medical Center, Morrisania Diagnostic and Treatment Center, and Segundo Ruiz Belvis Diagnostic and Treatment Center Eleventh Annual Legislative Summit. (03/13/2015) “It was an honor to join other elected officials and stakeholders at the Community Advisory Boards’ Eleventh Annual Legislative Summit. We had the opportunity to present our ideas and discuss how we can develop a comprehensive legislative agenda and action plan to improve health care in the Bronx. I look forward to continuing to work with the community leaders and organizations that were in attendance at the Summit to ensure Bronxites have access to the quality and affordable health care that they need.” ###
03.12.2015	Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 15 members of New York's Congressional Delegation are joining the Governor's Enough is Enough campaign calling on members of the public to support and advocate for the passage of the Governor's proposal to create the strongest protections from on-campus sexual violence in the country. His proposal would codify uniform sexual assault prevention and response protocols for all colleges and universities – public and private – in New York, better protecting the State's 1.2 million college students. The congressional delegation's support follows the more than 100 elected officials from across the State, more than 40 city mayors, 17 of 18 county executives and Whoopi Goldberg who recently joined the Enough is Enough campaign. "We all share a responsibility for ensuring schools are safe places for learning, and I am honored to be joined by our congressional partners in our fight against sexual assault on college campuses," Governor Cuomo said. "Together, with a bi-partisan group of officials from every level of government and every corner of the state, we are saying that 'Enough is Enough' and it's time to put a stop to these crimes once and for all." "Sexual assault on college campuses is a pervasive problem and too often it's swept under the rug," Senator Kirsten Gillibrand said. "I commend Governor Cuomo and Lieutenant Governor Hochul for their leadership and efforts to spotlight and combat this issue in New York State. At the federal level we must flip the current incentives of a broken system to provide real accountability from higher education institutions and end sexual violence on college campuses." The following 15 members of the New York Congressional Delegation have joined the Enough is Enough campaign: · Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand · Congressman Charles B. Rangel · Congressman Eliot Engel · Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey · Congressman José E. Serrano · Congressman Jerrold Nadler · Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney · Congressman Gregory W. Meeks · Congressman Joe Crowley · Congressman Steve Israel · Congressman Paul Tonko · Congressman Tom Reed · Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney · Congresswoman Grace Meng · Congresswoman Kathleen Rice Governor Cuomo launched the campaign two weeks ago to build support for his proposal for colleges and universities to implement uniform prevention and response measures to combat sexual assaults on campus, which have already been adopted by the State University of New York. The Governor’s proposal will extend the SUNY policy and protections to colleges statewide and ensure that the State’s 1.2 million college students are protected with comprehensive and uniform procedures and guidelines, including affirmative consent and access to law enforcement. The “Enough is Enough” campaign includes a new State Police hotline – 1-844-845-7269 – dedicated to reporting sexual assaults on college and university campuses. Specially-trained members of the State Police will be on-call 24 hours a day to respond to sexual assault calls throughout the State. The campaign also has a video featuring students, advocates and elected officials supporting the Governor’s policy to address sexual assault on college campuses. The video can be viewed here. To promote the campaign and the importance of passing the Governor’s proposal, Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul has embarked on a statewide tour to bring Enough is Enough to college campuses across the State. She is meeting with members of the student body, faculty and administration as well as service providers and advocates for survivors of rape and sexual assault. The Governor’s on-campus sexual assault prevention proposal includes the following components: • A statewide definition of affirmative consent, defining consent as a clear, unambiguous, and voluntary agreement between the participants to engage in specific sexual activity; • A statewide amnesty policy, to ensure that students reporting incidents of sexual assault or other sexual violence are granted immunity for certain campus policy violations, such as drug and alcohol use; • A Sexual Violence Victim/Survivor Bill of Rights, which campuses will be required to distribute to all students in order to specifically inform sexual violence victims of their legal rights and how they may access appropriate resources. The Bill of Rights clearly states that students are given the right to know they can report sexual assaults to outside law enforcement, including the State Police; • Comprehensive training requirements for administrators, staff, and students, including at new student orientations. Members of the public wishing to state their support for Governor Cuomo's proposal can do so at www.ny.gov/EnoughisEnough. They can also join the conversation online using #EnoughisEnough. Congressman Charles B. Rangel said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo's effort to protect students of New York colleges and universities from sexual assault. Combined with Senator Gillibrand's bi-partisan Campus Accountability & Safety Act on the federal level, I am proud New York is leading the charge against campus violence. We must make sure students feel their school is a safe and secure place to learn and that victims are provided the support resources during such a difficult time." Congressman Eliot Engel said, “The statistics regarding sexual assault on college campuses are staggering and completely unacceptable. This culture of violence against women that has been allowed to fester must end. I applaud Governor Cuomo for introducing legislation that will codify a sexual assault prevention and response policy for all colleges and universities in New York, thereby making our institutes of higher learning safer places for everyone.” Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey said, “Sexual assault has no place in our society, including universities across New York. I wholeheartedly support the Governor’s proposal to cement sexual assault prevention and response guidelines into law for both public and private institutions. It is imperative that all college students in New York have peace of mind that rights, protections, and resources are available regardless of where they choose to study. I will continue to work with the Governor to prevent sexual assault on New York college campuses.” Congressman José E. Serrano said, “Sexual assault has no place on our college campuses. I believe that all of our students deserve the opportunity to receive an education in a safe and inclusive environment. For that reason, I fully support Governor Cuomo and the “Enough is Enough” campaign. Governor Cuomo’s proposal is the right step in putting New York at the forefront of combating sexual violence on all of our college campuses. If enacted, educational institutions in our state will be committed to ensuring that sexual crimes are handled with the full support of campus authorities and law enforcement agencies. I applaud the Governor’s decision to introduce this proposal and I will support all efforts to move this campaign forward. Congressman Jerrold Nadler said, “Governor Cuomo’s announcement today marks a clear step towards combating sexual violence on college campuses in New York and moves us closer to achieving our shared goal of ensuring that college campuses work harder to protect the safety and rights of every student.” Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney said, “Governor Cuomo is delivering the most aggressive approach in the nation to combatting sexual assault on college campuses. The Governor’s plan clearly defines consent, ensures students know their rights, and creates training requirements for University staff to ensure they know the law. At the federal level, I passed the Campus SaVE Act, and I have introduced the House version of Senator Gillibrand’s Campus Accountability and Safety Act. It’s good to see that all levels of government are working to ensure that being sexually assaulted is no longer a part of earning a college degree." Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said, "Governor Cuomo’s legislation is a great leap forward in protecting our college students from the harms, both physical and mental, of sexual assault. I applaud the Governor’s work on this critical issue and encourage the state assembly to pass the Sexual Assault Prevention bill as quickly as possible." Congressman Joe Crowley said, “Every student on every campus deserves to learn in an environment free from the fear of sexual assault. We’ve seen the alarming numbers, we’ve heard the devastating stories -- there is no question that more must be done to strengthen prevention efforts and help ensure the safety of every student. New York has been at the forefront in the battle against campus sexual assault and I applaud Governor Cuomo for his continued commitment to making our campuses safer.” Congressman Steve Israel said, “The prevalence of sexual assault on our college campuses is simply unacceptable. Enough is enough, which is why I’m pleased to support Governor Cuomo’s program to provide the resources colleges and universities need to combat sexual assault.” Congressman Paul Tonko said, "Sexual assault on our campuses in New York – and around the country – is a problem that deserves our full attention and swift action. While the SUNY system has taken critical steps in addressing this issue, we must do more to protect our students and ensure they are provided with the safe environment they need to grow as individuals. I thank Governor Cuomo for introducing this proposal and for bringing this important issue into the spotlight. I look forward to working with him to make certain we are doing everything we can to keep our students safe and let them focus on their education." Congressman Tom Reed said, “I’m pleased to hear the Governor has seen the value of SUNY’s new policies and has chosen to apply these positive changes to every higher education institution in the state. Victims need care. It’s important that our schools support victims, not add to their suffering. This Bill of Rights is a step in the right direction.” Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney said, “Not one college student should suffer in silence after being sexually assaulted. Every day that goes by, we’re missing an opportunity to make serious reforms to this broken system." Congresswoman Grace Meng said, "I commend and support Governor Cuomo's efforts to combat sexual violence on college campuses throughout our state. It is critical that we raise awareness of this heinous behavior and do all we can to prevent it. The Governor's proposals to create a uniform policy for all colleges and universities in New York will go a long way towards accomplishing those critical goals, and they would ensure that victims of this terrible crime receive all the assistance and support that they require." Congresswoman Kathleen Rice said, “Parents who send their children to colleges and universities in New York trust that they’ll be kept safe, and our schools have to honor that trust by doing everything possible to prevent sexual assaults from happening and to respond appropriately when they do happen. While we need to push for federal legislation that would apply to all colleges and universities across the country, the Governor’s proposal is an important step that would make New York campuses safer for all students. I’m glad the Governor is making this a priority and I encourage state lawmakers to give this legislation the support it deserves.” ###
03.12.2015	Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $4.9 million in grants are available to provide repair and assistance to historic and archeological resources that were impacted by Hurricane Sandy. With the money being made available by the National Park Service for a second time, not-for-profit organizations, municipalities, and state agencies can apply to the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation to receive aid. “New York has a rich history, and many places important to it were damaged in Superstorm Sandy, making them more vulnerable to future severe storms,” Governor Cuomo said. "These grants will help build back these significant sites and ensure they remain important parts of New York’s heritage, and tourism economy, for generations to come.” Properties are eligible for grants if they: · Are located in Suffolk, Nassau, Kings, Queens, Bronx, New York, Richmond, Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Orange, Sullivan or Ulster counties; and · sustained Hurricane Sandy-related damage; and · are listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, or contribute to a listed or eligible historic district. The deadline for applications is 4:00 p.m. on May 1. Work must meet the U.S. Department of the Interior’s standards for treatment of historic properties and be pre-approved by the State Historic Preservation Office. Eligible activities include: · pre-development activities, including Historic Structure Reports, condition assessments, plans and specifications, and other related surveys and studies; · archeological stabilization; · building restoration, rehabilitation and stabilization; or · restoration, rehabilitation, preservation and stabilization of a documented historic landscape. Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation Commissioner Rose Harvey said, “Sandy’s wrath did not spare countless properties listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Under the Governor’s leadership, we are excited to offer a second round of assistance to historic properties impacted by the storm.” Unlike other state historic preservation grants, no match is required from the applicant, although matching funds are encouraged. The minimum grant request for predevelopment costs is $5,000 while the minimum grant request for capital costs is $10,000. The maximum grant amount is $1 million. As with other state historic preservation grants, the program is reimbursement only and projects must be completed with all expenditures incurred and paid by December 31, 2018. Retroactive expenditures made from October 26, 2012 through July 23, 2013 may be eligible for reimbursement provided all approvals have been obtained and work meets National Parks Service preservation standards as approved by the State Historic Preservation Office. Congressman Charles B. Rangel said, "Countless lives were affected by Superstorm Sandy across the tri-state area, as well as homes, businesses, and landmarks that define New York's communities. These grants will help rebuild and preserve historic sites that have been devastated by this storm and will enable communities to continue their recovery efforts. I applaud Governor Cuomo for expanding what my Colleagues and I in the tri-state congressional delegations have been able to secure together for our constituents." Congressman Eliot Engel said, “More than two years removed from the initial devastation of Superstorm Sandy, and there are still some places dealing with the terrible aftermath. The $4.9 million in National Parks Service funding Governor Cuomo is administering through the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation will allow us to aid the repair of many historic and archaeological properties that are still suffering from storm damage. I thank the Governor for making the restoration of these important historical sites a priority in New York.” Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey said, “It’s important to restore and preserve the Lower Hudson Valley’s historic treasures. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I led the fight to secure federal Sandy recovery aid, and I will continue to work with the Governor and local officials to ensure our recovery and resiliency needs are met.” Congressman José E. Serrano said, “Sandy had a debilitating effect on some of New York City’s most precious historic sites. This federal funding will allow non-profit organizations, municipalities, and state agencies to continue providing technical and construction assistance to those places that have faced significant hardship in raising the necessary funds to cover the costs of repairs. It will also help areas that were hit the hardest fortify these structures so they are ready to withstand future extreme weather conditions. Historical sites play an important role in our communities and contribute to our local economy. I look forward to collaborating with the Governor to make sure local organizations take advantage of this important funding and to seeing all of the improvements to historic sites that will be possible thanks to it." Congressman Jerrold Nadler said, “I’m very pleased that New York historic properties will have the opportunity to apply for these much-needed federal dollars. Unfortunately, there are many not-for-profit organizations and cultural institutions that are still suffering the effects of Superstorm Sandy. These funds can make a huge difference in helping these organizations rebuild, repair and restore these vital properties in our communities.” Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney said, “New York is fortunate to be home to many historic sites of national significance. Unfortunately, many of those sites were damaged by Sandy and are in need of repair. The grant program Governor Cuomo has implemented is helping to ensure these historic places are restored so they can be enjoyed for generations to come. I was proud to support federal funding for this effort.” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said, "I fully support and thank Governor Cuomo for his efforts to restore and rebuild our state's historical treasures. Superstorm Sandy left many of our community's historic buildings severely damaged. These grants will contribute to greater investment to preserve the rich heritage of our great City and State." Congressman Joe Crowley said, “While we continue to help families and business owners across New York fully recover from Hurricane Sandy’s devastating impact, many sites which are an integral part our city’s heritage remain in disrepair. This second round of federal relief will ensure these historical landmarks and properties will be around for generations to come and I thank Governor Cuomo and the New York State Historic Preservation Office for ensuring these vital resources are there for our communities.” Congressman Steve Israel said, “This second round of funding will provide much-needed resources for New York’s historic landmarks that were damaged during Superstorm Sandy. These sites are important to our culture and local economy. I am proud to work with Governor Cuomo to ensure the historical sites that highlight our state’s rich history are preserved and protected for future generations of New Yorkers.” Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney said, “Many of our historical landmarks were hit hard by Hurricane Sandy - we must continue to work until these notable sites are fully restored and preserved for the millions of residents and tourists who visit the Hudson Valley." Congresswoman Grace Meng said, "When Sandy wreaked havoc on our region, many historic buildings and properties were among the infrastructure damaged by the storm. It is important that non-profits, agencies and municipalities have the necessary resources to repair these sites and project them from future disasters, and these funds will go a long way towards accomplishing that goal." Congresswoman Kathleen Rice said, "Sandy damaged not only our homes, businesses and critical infrastructure, but also many of the properties and landmarks that attest to the history and character of our communities on Long Island. These funds will help restore historic properties and better prepare them to withstand the future storms that we know are coming, and I encourage all eligible organizations in our district to apply." Congressman Lee Zeldin said, "When Super Storm Sandy hit, it left our community in a mess. These grants will allow our nonprofit organizations, religious institutions and local municipalities to restore our historic buildings and communities, allowing them to come back stronger than they were before the storm." Sectarian entities are eligible to apply for both planning and construction projects. Sectarian properties owned by religious organizations that are not currently listed on the National Register must be listed by December 31, 2018. Grant funds can pay for the preparation of the National Register nomination as part of a larger planning and/or construction project. Round 2 program guidelines, grant application and Instructions, and related documents are available at nysparks.com/shpo. For assistance, contact: Merrill Hesch, (212) 866-2599 at Merrill.Hesch@parks.ny.gov or Stacey Matson-Zuvic, (845) 786-2701, ext. 220 at Stacey.Matson-Zuvic@parks.ny.gov. In the first round of grants, New York State awarded more than $5 million to 14 historically significant properties that suffered severe damage from Superstorm Sandy. The New York State Historic Preservation Office, part of the Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, manages all state and federal historic preservation programs that help communities, municipalities, and individuals identify, evaluate, preserve, protect, and revitalize their historic, archeological and cultural resources. ###
03.12.2015	NEW YORK–Mayor Bill de Blasio and Correction Commissioner Joe Ponte today announced a 14-point plan to aggressively combat violence and promote a culture of safety on Rikers Island, including five main initiatives to target inmate-on-inmate violence. This plan represents the administration’s continued commitment to reform Rikers Island after decades of neglect. At the heart of the plan are five major initiatives to reduce inmate-on-inmate violence: - Keeping weapons, drugs and contraband out of Rikers, including visitor reforms - Creating an integrated classification and housing strategy to more safely house inmates - Providing comprehensive security camera coverage - Designing effective inmate education opportunities and services to reduce idle time - Developing crisis intervention teams to respond more quickly to inmate-on-inmate violence. Inmate-on-inmate violence has been on the rise at Rikers Island over the past decade, representing 71 percent of all violent incidents for 2014. Thus far in 2015, 711 inmates were involved in an attack on another inmate. “Today we are taking aggressive steps to move Rikers Island from a culture of violence to a culture of safety. From changing the visitor policy to intercept contraband to smartly placing inmates to avoid conflict to providing our inmates with expanded educational opportunities and services, we are taking on the growing number of violent incidents at Rikers from every angle,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “As we move forward, this 14-point agenda will help us rebuild Rikers as a safer institution for officers and inmates alike.” “We will aggressively tackle inmate-on-inmate violence by stopping the flow of weapons and drugs into our jails and stanching the flow of information that enables gang members to commit violent acts across facilities,” Commissioner Ponte said. “These steps will help us stop violence before it enters our gates.” Keeping weapons, drugs and contraband out of Rikers will be accomplished through a number of policy changes, including new rules for visitors that DOC will seek from the Board of Correction, its oversight body. These rules will seek to limit the physical contact inmates may have with visitors, broaden the criteria for restricting visitors, and establish a visitor registry. The goal is to create a common sense approach to visiting policy that reviews visits on a case by case basis and limits potential for contraband flow and crime, while respecting the ability of inmates to maintain legitimate ties with family members and the community. These changes would bring DOC policy closer in line with other large jail systems such as Los Angeles, Cook County (Chicago), and Philadelphia, which either place limitations on physical contact between inmates and visitors, or restrict visitors based on security and safety concerns. Additional contraband policy initiatives include: · Implementing K-9 capabilities for searches and investigations by June 2016 · Building more, new secure entrances for each facility by December 2018 · Training 100% of existing front entrance staff in enhanced TSA-style procedures by December 2015 Creating an integrated classification and housing strategy will ensure that the toughest, most violent inmates of Rikers are housed with each other, and will separate warring gangs and warring factions within gangs. Presently, some inmates with gang affiliations are housed together, while others are sprinkled throughout the general population. This integrated classification and housing strategy includes: · Refining the inmate classification process by April 2015 · Launching initial Housing/Classification pilots in select facilities by October 2015 · Stand-up Housing/Classification Unit to direct Department-wide housing and classification system by January 2016 · Rolling out a new housing and classification system and plan to all facilities by April 2016 Comprehensive security camera coverage will ensure there is active monitoring of jail activities in real time, to deter and respond in a timely manner to violence, and for intelligence purposes, to prevent violence altogether. DOC has installed full camera coverage in adolescent facilities and installed camera coverage in nine of the housing units dedicated to 18-21-year-olds; DOC will add full video and camera coverage within all facilities on Rikers Island by February 2018. Designing effective inmate education opportunities and services will result in a comprehensive idleness reduction program that envisions an expansion of non-school classes and other activities such as fatherhood initiatives or workforce development, so that all inmates will have the option of attending a minimum of five hours of classes or programming daily, from one hour now. The department expects this should help stop violence by keeping inmates focused on priorities that assist rehabilitation. The department expects to provide access to a minimum of 5 hours of non-school programming a day to adolescent (16-17) inmates by August 2015; a minimum of 5 hours of programming a day to young adult (18-21) inmates by December 2015; and a minimum of 5 hours of programming a day to adult (22+) inmates by March 2016. Redefining first line incident responses will more quickly end violent incidents by training over 300 Emergency Services Unit officers on non-lethal force technique and jointly developing Crisis Intervention Teams, involving training 1,000 officers with DOHMH and implementation of teams by July 2015. Additional initiatives will help move DOC toward a culture of safety. DOC will create and expand common-sense managerial and operational practices to strengthen performance, accountability, ownership and transparency through the following nine initiatives: - Improve leadership development and culture - Redefine the Investigations Division - Design a recruitment, hiring and staff selection plan - Design a performance management plan - Implement operational performance metrics and analysis - Create a well-defined supply distribution process - Expand targeted training of officers and non-uniformed staff - Raise facilities to a state of good repair - Improve custody management Background on Visitor Policy From November 14 through January 31, DOC seized 10 weapons and 69 contraband drugs from 26 visitors who were trying to enter jails to visit gang members. Those individuals were arrested. The new rules would bring DOC policy closer into line with that of other large jail systems such as Los Angeles, Cook County (Chicago), and Philadelphia, which limit physical contact between inmates and visitors, or restrict visitors based on safety and security concerns. These policies are considered best practices in the correction field. DOC will propose the rule changes at BOC’s next meeting in May and, if approved, would implement them by August. Philadelphia and Los Angeles both limit contact visits. New York State, Los Angeles, and Cook County all maintain visitor registries, and Cook County and Los Angeles may even deny visits based on certain security criteria, such as criminal history. About the New York City Department of Correction The New York City Department of Correction (DOC) manages the jail system for New York City. It operates Rikers Island, which houses 10 individual facilities, four borough-based jails and two hospital prison wards, as well as court pens in all five boroughs. In FY 2014, DOC had 77,141 admissions involving 56,218 individuals. Its Average Daily Population is about 11,400, over 80 percent of whom are housed on Rikers Island. Most of the inmates in DOC custody are being detained pending the resolution of charges against them; about 15 percent are city-sentenced inmates who are serving sentences of one year or less. “Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Ponte's 14-point plan to reform Rikers Island is a strong step towards changing the prison's culture of violence. I applaud the Mayor for addressing the severity of the issue of inmate-on-inmate violence. We have a responsibility to ensure that everyone in the City, including those incarcerated, remains safe and that our correctional system works effectively. The Mayor’s plan will help make Rikers Island a more secure environment where inmates can begin to turn their lives around,” Congressman Charlie Rangel. “This common-sense approach is a good step in the right direction to extinguish inmate violence and the smuggling of illegal weapons and contraband in Rikers Island. This plan also seeks to address violence perpetrated against juveniles in the correctional system, an urgent problem that must be fixed immediately. Mayor de Blasio and all involved should be commended for their leadership and commitment on this issue,” said Congressman Hakeem Jeffries. “For decades, Rikers Island has maintained a toxic culture of violence. In conjunction with Correction Commisioner Joe Ponte, Mayor de Blasio is taking concrete action to change this culture of violence into one of safety, making Rikers Island safer for correction officers and inmates. In addition, by expanding educational and development services, the Mayor is transforming Rikers Island to be more rehabilitative. I applaud Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Ponte for their development of this 14-point plan and look forward to its full implementation,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. “With this comprehensive plan, the Mayor is keeping his promise to aggressively address the problem of inmate violence that has plagued Rikers Island for years and to fix New York City’s broken jail system. A reformed Rikers Island will ensure a safer environment for inmates and officers alike, which will result in a stronger correctional facility better able to serve its purpose of helping criminals change their behavior. The initiatives announced today will ultimately help us put in place a prison system that promotes the rehabilitation of inmates so that they can return to society as responsible individuals that want to contribute to their communities,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “I am pleased to learn that the administration is broadening its efforts to tackle the issue of violence on Rikers Island,” said Council Member Daniel Dromm. “Providing inmates with educational opportunities and time to be introspective will benefit everyone. Reducing idle time by offering detainees opportunities for self-improvement activities is an important part of the anti-violence program. I am pleased to see this renewed effort to reduce inmate on inmate violence in our city jails.” ###
03.10.2015	History Maker Herman Badillo Served as Bronx Borough President & Was First Puerto Rican to Serve as Congressman; Badillo Also Served as NYC Deputy Mayor under Ed Koch Schumer, Gillibrand, Serrano, Rangel, Crowley Introduce Legislation to Rename Post Office in the Bronx After Herman Badillo Lawmakers: Dedication of Morrisania Post Office Will Be a Lasting Tribute to Herman Badillo’s Steadfast Commitment & Dedication to New York City U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Congressmembers José E. Serrano, Charles Rangel, and Joseph Crowley today introduced legislation to rename the Morrisania Post Office, located in the Bronx, in honor of former Congressman and Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo. Badillo became the first Puerto-Rican city commissioner and borough president, and was the first Congressman to be born in Puerto Rico. “As a proud native son of Puerto Rico, a product of the Bronx and a champion for all of New York, Herman Badillo exemplified the American ethos that you can achieve greatness and enact positive change regardless of humble beginnings and economic disadvantage and discrimination. While nobody can fill the void left by Herman Badillo, it is my hope that all those who enter this post office will be reminded of his incredible commitment to our city and our nation,” said Senator Schumer. “Through his intellect, fierceness of spirit and compassion, Herman inspired generations to believe that ‘Si se puede’ and naming the Morrisania Post Office after him is a fitting tribute to his legacy of work for civil rights, equal opportunity, education reform and more.” “Herman Badillo was an inspiring advocate for all New Yorkers, and a role model for countless Puerto Rican-born Americans. He moved through life motivated by the desire to help the people around him, and throughout his decades-long political career, he repeatedly accomplished that goal. It is fitting that Herman Badillo’s name will now live on in public view at a post office in The Bronx, so that new generations of New Yorkers can continue to be driven to do great things by Herman Badillo’s legacy,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. “It is an honor to serve as the original sponsor of legislation in the House of Representatives to honor the life and legacy of the late Herman Badillo by renaming the Morrisania Post Office after him. Few people have been as important in shaping the history of the Bronx and in Puerto Ricans’ participation in local and state politics as Herman Badillo – a trailblazer and leader in every sense of the word. The Herman Badillo Post Office Building will help ensure his memory lives on for generations to come,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. "My great friend Herman Badillo was a fixture in New York City politics for nearly four decades, championing civil rights, jobs, housing and educational reform. Even after his passing, he continues to be a true testament to the American Dream," said Congressman Charles B. Rangel. "Renaming this post office in honor of Herman is a fitting way to preserve and honor his legacy in the Bronx." “Herman Badillo’s contributions to the Bronx, the City of New York and our country as a whole, cannot be overstated,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “Renaming the Morrisania branch of the U.S. Postal Service would be a fitting tribute for someone who was not only a trailblazer for the Latino community, but a champion for vulnerable communities everywhere. I thank Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Congressmen Rangel and Serrano for all their efforts in making sure Herman’s memory and legacy are honored.” “It is so heartwarming to see the outpouring of feeling and respect for my husband, Herman Badillo. Herman was an outstanding public servant and an inspiration to so many people. His story of coming from humble beginnings, being orphaned at a very young age and rising to the top to become the first Congressman of Puerto Rican heritage in the history of our country, is truly extraordinary. It is with enormous gratitude that I thank Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz for setting into motion the idea of naming the only federal building in the Bronx after Herman and the New York Congressional delegation; including Congressman Jose Serrano and Senator Charles Schumer for their support in this project,” said Gail Badillo. Badillo was born in Puerto Rico in 1929. Badillo’s father, an English teacher, and mother passed away of tuberculosis at an early age. At 11 years old, Badillo moved to the United States , and later settled down in New York. In 1951, Badillo graduated with honors from City College and in 1954, was the valedictorian of his class at Brooklyn Law School. In 1965, Badillo was elected Bronx Borough President and in 1970, Badillo was elected to Congress as a United States representative. Badillo spent seven years as a Congressman representing South Bronx. There, he fought for voting rights, programs to help inner cities, and bilingual education. In 1971, Badillo brought attention to an issue affecting Puerto Ricans; at the time, Puerto Ricans were not eligible for federal benefits under Social Security such as food stamps. As chairman of the CUNY board from 1999 to 2001, Badillo oversaw the end of open enrollment in senior colleges and higher admissions and graduation requirements. The lawmakers today said that the Morrisania Post Office is a historical federal building included on the National Register of Historic Places, and it would only be fitting to honor Herman Badillo permanently at home in the Bronx.
03.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Serrano joined Representatives Jerrold Nadler, Nydia Velázquez, Hakeem Jeffries, and Grace Meng, as well as representatives of local labor and advocacy groups, to oppose Fast Track legislation for the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) on the steps of City Hall in New York City. Other labor and advocacy groups present at the event were: the New York State AFL-CIO; the New York City Central Labor Council; AFL-CIO; Local 420, AFSCME; New York State Council of Machinists IAMAW AFL-CIO; Sierra Club Atlantic Chapter; Teamsters Joint Council; CWA District One; Food & Water Watch. “The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) should get a full debate in Congress so that members of Congress can decide if this is a good deal for our workers, consumers, and the environment – in sum, if it is a good for our country. That is why I oppose fast-track authority for the TPP, which would allow this legislation to go through without sufficient discussion and analysis. In the past, we have seen fast-tracked trade agreements like NAFTA that promised more American jobs and a better life for people in other countries. These promises were never fulfilled. We can’t allow that to happen again. We must protect jobs in our country and this proposed agreement does not accomplish that goal. Today, I once again join congressional colleagues and members of my community to call for transparency and accountability as our government negotiates the TPP,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. Congressman Serrano stands in opposition of Fast Track legislation for the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) with other NYC members of Congress and labor and advocacy groups representatives. (03/09/2015)
03.04.2015	As Prepared for Delivery Thank you Chairman Crenshaw. I’d like to join you in once again welcoming Secretary Lew before the subcommittee to discuss the Department's budget request for fiscal year 2016. The Treasury Department is at the center of our economic recovery, plays an important role in the implementation of some of our most important public policy initiatives like the Affordable Care Act and Dodd-Frank, manages our nation's finances, and works to enforce our tax laws fairly. I have not mentioned everything, but it is plain to see that this is a diverse set of responsibilities. Your budget request attempts to improve funding levels for many parts of your work, but let me highlight just a few. First and foremost, your budget attempts to restore the devastating budget cuts that hit the IRS in fiscal year 2015. The IRS estimates that the $346 million in cuts suffered last year will result in $2 billion less in revenue collected, and in fewer services to honest taxpayers trying to get their questions answered by the IRS. In other words, we are increasing the tax gap, and making things more confusing for taxpayers. Regardless of your feelings regarding the handling of the IRS's problems, this is not a recipe for success. We cannot keep pretending that less investment in the IRS is somehow going to increase compliance and lower the tax gap. That is why I applaud your efforts to restore IRS funding to more sustainable and effective levels. Additionally, you request a modest increase for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund. The CDFI Fund has helped invest hundreds of millions of federal dollars in my congressional district since its creation 20 years ago, and has been an important driver of economic development in my district in the Bronx and in other underserved communities. Although I am concerned that the Department has once again recommended the elimination of the BEA program, I am heartened that we all agree about the importance of the work that the CDFI fund does every day. Lastly, I would be remiss if I did not mention the Department's important role in implementing the President's groundbreaking change to our ineffective Cuba policies. I look forward to working with you, and with the Office of Foreign Assets Control, to make sure that there are no problems with the implementation of these efforts. Secretary Lew, I look forward to discussing these and other issues with you today. Thank you. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C.- El congresista José E. Serrano, miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de Fondos de la Cámara de Representantes, aplaudió hoy la aprobación en la Cámara de Representantes del proyecto de ley de Asignación de Fondos del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (H.R. 240) —el proyecto sin para financiar el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS por sus siglas en inglés) aprobado en el Senado la semana pasada. El proyecto se dirige ahora a la rama ejecutiva para ser firmado por el Presidente. El proyecto fue aprobado por una votación de 257-167, con todos los representantes demócratas votando a favor del mismo. “Luego de cinco intentos infructuosos de pasar una legislación anti-inmigración extrema que nos puso al borde del cierre del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional la pasada semana, me complace que finalmente los Republicanos decidieron dejar las políticas de extrema derecha a un lado y permitieron que la Cámara de Representantes votara sobre un proyecto ‘limpio’ para financiar el Departamento. El proyecto que acaba de ser aprobado en la Cámara permitirá que una de las agencias de seguridad más importantes de nuestra nación pueda seguir operando efectivamente, sin afectar la habilidad del Presidente Obama de implementar la orden ejecutiva respecto al tema de inmigración. Como claramente quedó demostrado durante este proceso, el presupuesto no es la herramienta para debatir o dar forma a nuestra política migratoria. Ahora, el único obstáculo que previene que la Administración comience a implementar las disposiciones de la orden ejecutiva del Presidente Obama es la determinación temporera de la corte de distrito de Texas, la cual el Departamento de Justicia de los Estados Unidos planifica apelar. El Departamento de Justicia ya utilizó un recurso legal para prevenir que el dictamen judicial tenga efecto y estoy confiado de que la validez y legalidad de la orden ejecutiva finalmente prevalecerá en la corte más alta de nuestra nación. ###
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the passage in the House of Representatives of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act (H.R. 240) – the clean Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding bill that was approved in the Senate last week. The bill passed by a 257-167 vote, with all Democrats voting in favor. “After five failed attempts to pass an extreme anti-immigrant legislation that put us on the brink of a Department of Homeland Security shutdown last week, I am glad Republicans finally decided to put radical right-wing politics aside and let the House vote on a clean funding bill. The bill that just passed in the House of Representatives will allow one of our nations’ most important national security agencies to continue operating efficiently without affecting the President Obama’s ability to implement his executive orders on immigration. As was clearly demonstrated throughout this process, the budget is not the place to debate and shape our national immigration policy. Now the only obstacle preventing the Administration from starting to implement the President’s executive action on immigration is a Texas federal district court’s temporary ruling, which the U.S. Department of Justice plans to appeal. The Department has already requested a stay to prevent this ruling from taking effect, and I am confident the executive order’s validity and legality will ultimately prevail.” ###
02.27.2015	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the inclusion of an amendment restoring paraprofessional qualifications requirements in the Student Success Act (H.R. 5). The Student Success Act seeks to reauthorize the Elementary Secondary Education Act (ESEA), currently known as the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) since 2002. The NCLB put in place educational and professional standards for non-teachers paraprofessionals that work in classrooms to provide special assistance to teachers and students. The amendment offered by Quigley, McKinley, and Serrano would ensure that federal employment standards for paraprofessionals in public schools are reinstated with passage of H.R. 5. Serrano is a former paraprofessional in the New York City public school system. “This is great news for our children and I applaud Republicans for supporting this common sense measure. As a former paraprofessional, I saw firsthand the impact professionals like myself made in classrooms, especially in underserved communities. Paraprofessionals are essential to ensuring that students in low-income public school districts receive a high-quality education. This amendment will help ensure our schools can only hire professionals who are adequately prepared to assist in the classroom by setting national standards to require them to have a formal education and adequate professional training prior to hiring.” “All our children deserve the opportunity to get an excellent education. This amendment will help guarantee that paraprofessionals have the skills they need to successfully support and enhance a children’s learning experience in the classroom.” The amendment passed by a vote of 218-201. ###
02.26.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), today released the following statement in response to the Commission’s Board historic vote in favor of adopting rules to protect network neutrality on the Internet: “The rules adopted today will help guarantee consumers continue to have access to an open internet that promotes communication and innovation by restricting service providers’ ability to control access to an essential resource in today’s economy with unfair practices. Everyone – private businesses, entrepreneurs, schools, nonprofits, and families—will benefit from these rules. I applaud Chairman Wheeler and the FCC for taking this historic step to bring up to date and strengthen the laws that regulate the internet and to ensure it continues serving Americans’ needs in a 21st century global economy. Now we need to protect the new rules from Republicans’ attacks in Congress. House Republicans have already begun taking steps to replace the them in this Congress and roll back the progress we have made. In the past, their efforts to fight net neutrality rules have included trying to limit the FCC’s ability to regulate the internet through the Appropriations process. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that has jurisdiction over the FCC, I would strongly oppose any similar efforts roll back these rules, and will do everything in my power help ensure these protections remain in place.”
02.25.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, today delivered the following opening remarks at a hearing to evaluate the challenges the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently facing due to budgetary cuts. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would also like to welcome Department of Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, J. Russell George, and National Taxpayer Advocate Nina E. Olson back to the committee. I know you are all very busy, so I thank you for making the time to be here today. The IRS ensures the collection of taxes and provides taxpayer services. Approximately $2.9 trillion dollars in federal revenue is collected by the agency each year. The agency employs a staff comprised of around100,000. These individuals help millions of Americans to file their taxes, process over 237 million tax returns, and conduct tax audits and investigations. Without the work of the IRS staff, the federal government would not be unable to function since they collect the vast majority of the revenue that allows that to happen. As many of us are aware, the IRS has implemented the recommendations of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration to remedy problems resulting from the inappropriate targeting of liberal and conservative 501(c)(4) entities. I applaud the agency’s undertaking to implement reforms and prevent problems from repeating. With that being said, there are many challenges that the IRS is currently facing. The IRS has been severely underfunded for several years due to budget cuts made by this committee–which I strongly opposed. These budget cuts have made it difficult for the agency to hire and maintain personnel who are essential to carrying out taxpayer services and enforcement, and who are the ones who are charged with fixing the problems at IRS. As a result of understaffing, the IRS is anticipating that in FY 2015 it will only be able to answer around 50% of the calls they receive from taxpayers seeking assistance, that percentage goes up or down depending on when they release seasonal workers. That is a 57% decrease from the level the agency was able to function at over a decade ago in 2004. The IRS also anticipates being unable to collect $2 billion in taxes owed to our nation’s government as a result of these cuts. I hope we will get a chance today to discuss the impact of these cuts in your eyes. The current operating budget is at its lowest since FY 2008 and the lowest funding level since 1998, when adjusted for inflation. Since then the number of filers has increased by 23 percent. New tax responsibilities set forth by the Affordable Care Act and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act passed by Congress are adding to the IRS’ growing workload. The President’s FY 2016 request recognizes the need to provide the agency with a workable budget by requesting more than $1.3 billion over FY 2015. I hope this subcommittee will take that request seriously. We as lawmakers and as members of this subcommittee are charged with the task of ensuring that the IRS is able do its job effectively, and as a result of these cuts, they increasingly cannot. I am also concerned with the problems families who claim the Earned Income Tax Credit, or EITC, face. The EITC is a successful national anti-poverty program that helps low-income families attain much needed financial support. These families make up a large percentage of the IRS’ audits due to unintentional errors, and not fraud. This is mostly attributed to the complexity of EITC’s rules and to errors made by commercial preparers. The IRS should implement several changes in order to reduce the EITC error rate, and has made some good steps in this process. As I stated before, cutting the IRS’ budget will hinder any progress that has been made. I hope that we can assure that the IRS maintains a reasonable budget, and is able to make sure that taxpayer programs like the EITC are able to fulfill their mission. I look forward to discussing these and other issues with you today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
02.18.2015	El Bronx, NY - El congresista José E. Serrano (D-NY) emitió hoy las siguientes declaraciones en respuesta al dictamen judicial preliminar de Texas v. Estados Unidos de América, que bloquea temporalmente la aplicación del programa ampliado de DACA y del programa DAPA. El Departamento de Justicia de Estados Unidos ha anunciado planes de apelar la orden judicial temporal, pero en el ínterin el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS por sus siglas en inglés) debe cumplir con la sentencia. Por lo tanto, la Administración y DHS no podrán seguir adelante con sus planes de desplegar y empezar a aceptar solicitudes para estos programas hoy, miércoles 18 febrero, según se había previsto. Aquellas personas elegibles para DACA bajo el programa original anunciado en 2012 todavía podrán solicitar para acción diferida y permisos de trabajo. El Congresista Serrano se unió hoy por la mañana a otros oficiales electos locales, representantes de grupos defensores de los derechos de los inmigrantes y de sindicatos, y a inmigrantes que se verán afectados por la decisión para denunciar el efecto que la misma tendrá en la comunidad inmigrante de la ciudad de Nueva York. "Las acciones ejecutivas del presidente Obama sobre inmigración, anunciadas en noviembre del 2014, están basadas en un amplio precedente histórico y jurídico, y estoy seguro de que su validez será confirmada en corte a pesar de este revés. El Departamento de Justicia, juristas, expertos en inmigración, e incluso otros tribunales han confirmado una y otra vez que el plan del presidente es constitucional, cae dentro de su autoridad legal, y está alineado con acciones similares tomadas por otros Presidentes en el pasado—demócratas y republicanos—para moldear las políticas de inmigración del país. Hoy es un día triste para las millones de familias que se hubieran beneficiado de la ampliación del programa DACA y del programa DAPA, pero exhorto a las familias inmigrantes a ser pacientes y seguir aprovechando el programa DACA original anunciado por el presidente Obama en el 2012. El fallo de hoy no es una decisión final sobre el plan de acción ejecutiva del presidente, incluyendo estos dos programas, y el Departamento de Justicia de Estados Unidos ya ha anunciado su decisión de apelar. Voy a seguir trabajando con la Administración para asegurar que estos dos programas, así como el resto de la propuesta de acción ejecutiva del presidente, sea una realidad lo antes posible. No podemos darnos el lujo de seguir retrasando tomar las medidas necesarias para abordar el problema de nuestro fallido sistema de inmigración. Arreglar nuestro sistema de inmigración no sólo es importante para millones de familias, sino también para nuestra economía y para nuestra seguridad nacional.” El Congresista José E. Serrano se unió a otros oficiales electos, representantes de grupos defensores de los derechos de los inmigrantes y de uniones laborales, y a inmigrantes que se verán afectados para denunciar la decisión en el caso Texas v. EE.UU. El congresista José E. Serrano, el Latino Demócrata de más años de servicio en el Congreso actualmente, representa el Bronx desde el 1990. ###
02.18.2015	The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) today released the following statement in response to the Texas v. United States of America preliminary ruling, which temporarily blocks the implementation of expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA). The U.S. Department of Justice has announced plans to appeal the temporary injunction, but the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) must comply with the ruling in the meantime. Therefore, the Administration and DHS will not be able to move forward with plans to rollout and start accepting applications for the programs today, Wednesday February 18, as anticipated. Individuals eligible for DACA under the previous and original program announced in 2012 will still be eligible to apply for deferred action and work permits. The Court’s order does not affect either DHS’s capacity to establish and implement enforcement priorities. Congressman Serrano joined today in the morning other local elected officials, representatives from immigrant rights groups and labor unions, and immigrants who will be affected by the ruling to denounce the Court’s ruling and discuss the impact it will have on New York City’s immigrant community. “President Obama’s executive actions on immigration announced in November 2014 last year were founded on ample historical and legal precedent, and I am confident their validity will be upheld in court despite this setback. The Department of Justice, legal scholars, immigration experts, and even other courts have confirmed time after time that the President’s plan is constitutional, within his legal authority, and in line with similar actions taken by past Presidents –Democrats and Republicans—to shape our nation’s immigration policies. Today is a sad day for the millions of families that would have benefitted from the expanded DACA and DAPA programs, but I encourage immigrant families to be patient and continue taking advantage of the original DACA program announced by President Obama in 2012. The ruling today is not a final decision on the President’s executive action plan, including these two important programs, and the U.S. Department of Justice has already announced its decision to appeal the district court injunction. I will continue working with the Administration to ensure these two programs, as well as the rest of the President’s executive action proposal, become a reality soon. We can’t afford to continue delaying taking action to address our broken immigration system. Fixing our immigration system is important not only for millions of families, but also for our economy and our national security.” Congressman José E. Serrano joined other local elected officials, representatives from immigrant right groups and labor unions, and immigrants who will be affected by the ruling to denounce the Texas district court’s ruling. Congressman José E. Serrano, the longest-serving Latino Democrat in the House of Representative, has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
02.13.2015	Cell phone service providers started making available “kill switch” technology on smartphones after pressure from public officials, including Rep. Serrano Number of iPhones stolen in New York City down by 25% since installation of “activation lock” - London 50%; San Francisco 40% Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano today celebrated the decrease in smartphone thefts in the three major cities, including New York City, and once again called for passage of his “kill switch” legislation to ensure all providers are required by law to upgrade their smartphone products with this technology. The news come a year and a half after New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and San Francisco DA George Gascon launched a campaign called Secure our Smartphones. Shortly thereafter, Congressman Serrano introduced “The Smartphone Theft Prevention Act”, H.R. 4065 in the House of Representatives, while Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced identical legislation in the Senate. The purpose of this bill was precisely to deter criminals from stealing cell phones by giving consumers the ability to make the stolen device useless, prevent criminals from reactivating or reprogramming it, and erase data after its stolen. Shortly after Congressman Serrano and Senator Klobuchar introduced this legislation, several wireless carriers committed to making the technology available to consumers. Congressman Serrano plans to introduce the bill again this year for the 114th Congress. “I am very pleased to learn that thanks to the steps some smartphone providers decided to take after mounting state and federal pressure, including federal legislation introduced by myself and Senator Klobuchar, the amount of phone thefts has significantly decreased. These numbers prove that ‘kill switch’ technology is effective as a theft prevention mechanism and underscore why we need to keep pushing to ensure every smartphone has the tools available that consumers need to protect their device and private data,” said Congressman Serrano. “Kill switch technology works and I urge companies to go further and install kill switches on all smartphones as soon as they can – this is not only in consumer’s interest, but also in their own interest. I also urge my colleagues to join me in passing this important legislation to ensure all smartphone manufacturers and cell phones providers are required by law to include this technology in all devices and do so as standard procedure.” ###
02.12.2015	Local leaders Invite The Pontiff to Visit The Bronx and Offer a Mass at Yankee Stadium Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano has joined other local leaders in an effort to invite Pope Francis to the Bronx and offer a mass at Yankee Stadium like other Popes have done in the past during their visits to the United States. New York City Council Speaker, Melissa Mark-Viverito; Bronx Borough President, Ruben Diaz, Jr.; New York City Comptroller, Scott Stringer, and New York City Councilwoman, Vanessa Gibson are also part of the effort led by the 161st Business Improvement District which was made public today in local newspapers. The Bronx has hosted other notable world leaders in the past, including Nelson Mandela, Rev. Billy Graham, and three Popes: Paul VI, John Paul II, and Benedict XVI. All three Popes celebrated a mass at the original Yankee Stadium. “We would be honored to host Pope Francis in the Bronx, the only borough in New York City with a majority Latino population that represents the diversity of our City and our nation. I hope His Holiness accepts our invitation to grace us with his presence and inspire us with his words. As the first Latin American Pope, his visit would be a historic and momentous occasion that would remain with us for generations to come,” said Congressman Serrano. Congressman José E. Serrano, the longest-serving Latino Democrat in the House of Representative, has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. ###
02.12.2015	Lideres Locales Intivan a Su Santidad a Visitar el Bronx y Celebrar una Misa en el "Yankee Stadium" Washington, D.C.- El congresista José E. Serrano se ha unido a otros líderes locales en el esfuerzo por invitar al Papa Francisco al Bronx para ofrecer una misa en el “Yankee Stadium” como otros Papas lo han hecho en sus pasadas visitas a los Estados Unidos. Melissa Mark- Viverito, líder del ayuntamiento de la ciudad de Nueva York; Rubén Díaz, Presidente del distrito del Bronx; Scott Stringer, Contralor de la ciudad de Nueva York y Vanessa Gibson, concejal de la ciudad de Nueva York, son parte del esfuerzo liderado por el Distrito de Mejora Empresarial 161 (161st Business Improvement District), que se hizo público hoy en rotativos locales. En el pasado, el Bronx ha servido de sede para recibir a importantes líderes mundiales entre ellos Nelson Mandela, el Reverendo Billy Graham y tres Papas. Los Sumos Pontífices que han visitado el Bronx en el pasado son Pablo VI, Juan Pablo II y Benedicto XVI. Los tres Papas celebraron una misa en el “Yankees Stadium” original. “Para nosotros sería un honor ser anfitriones del Papa Francisco en el Bronx, el único distrito de la ciudad de Nueva York con una mayoría de población latina que representa la diversidad de nuestra Ciudad y de nuestra nación. Yo espero que Su Santidad acepte nuestra invitación para honrarnos con su presencia e inspirarnos con sus palabras. Como el primer Papa Latinoamericano, su visita sería una histórica y constituiría una ocasión especial que se quedaría con nosotros por generaciones,” dijo el congresista José E. Serrano. El congresista José E. Serrano, el Latino Demócrata de más años de servicio en el Congreso actualmente, representa el Bronx desde el 1990. ###
02.03.2015	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget proposal: “President Obama has presented Congress with a balanced proposal focused on strengthening and expanding the middle class, and creating a 21st century economy where everyone wins—not just a few rich individuals and corporations. “The President wants to make sure that, as we reap the benefits of the economic progress we have made in recent years, we choose to invest in the areas that will allow our economy to continue growing in the future – infrastructure, education, scientific research and innovation, entrepreneurship, and the middle class. Investing in these areas will help create jobs and boost America’s competitiveness in the global economy. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, I am glad to see that his plan includes increased funding for the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and for construction by the General Services Administration (GSA). More funding for the SEC and the IRS will allow these two key government agencies to better serve American taxpayers. Increased funding for the General Services Administration will help create construction jobs and strengthen government operations throughout the nation. “As a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, I am pleased that the President’s proposal includes increased funding for legal defense initiatives in underserved communities, community policing initiatives, and the enforcement of the Voting Rights Act. I also strongly support the President’s proposal to increase the National Science Foundation’s budget by $379 million to $7.7 billion. This increase will help fund investments in STEM research and clean energy. “As a new member of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I am particularly pleased that the President included robust funding for our global health and international humanitarian aid programs. By providing adequate funding to initiatives such as Power Africa and Trade Africa, the United States will be able to improve the lives of millions of people in the African continent. Finally, I am pleased that the President’s proposal allocates $1 billion in financial aid to Central American countries in order to help them address economic, governance, and security challenges. “I am also glad to see his plan proposes getting rid of sequestration, which only hurts our ability to fund vital national programs. Sequestration has greatly harmed our nation’s ability to compete and left important government agencies in desperate need of further investment. This budget proposal allows us to adequately invest in important health, education, consumer protection, infrastructure, research and innovation, and many other areas. “President Obama’s proposal increases spending in key areas, reduces our budget deficit in the short term, and guarantees that it remains stable in the long term. The President’s budget achieves this goal by reforming a wide range of tax and spending programs, including the way wealthy individuals and corporations are taxed so that we have a more fair and balanced system in place. All in all, the President’s proposal would reduce cumulative budget deficits by $1.8 trillion over ten years. “I look forward to discussing these aspects and many other aspects of the President’s proposal through the Appropriations process on the Financial Services; Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS); and State-Foreign Operations subcommittees.” ###
02.02.2015	NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio today announced the next phase of New York City’s Young Men’s Initiative (YMI), including significant new commitments by the City to confront inequality and create opportunity for young men of color. First launched by Mayor Bloomberg in 2011, YMI’s programming will align with President Obama’s “My Brother’s Keeper” initiative, launching four new programs aimed at increasing literacy in young children, improving graduation rates and workforce readiness, as well as protecting youth from violent crime. To spearhead the next phase of YMI, Mayor de Blasio named Cyrus Garrett, a veteran of Everytown for Gun Safety and Organizing for America, as its new executive director. The announcement was made at the new Jobs-Plus Center at the Van Dyke Houses in Brownsville, which opened this month and is funded by the Young Men’s Initiative and administered by the NYC Human Resources Administration in partnership with the New York City Housing Authority, Center for Economic Opportunity, and Department of Consumer Affairs. The center expects to serve 1,600 local residents with job placements, training, financial counseling, and a range of supportive services. YMI works to connect black and Latino young people to opportunities and support that can lead them to success. Black and Hispanic young men have 1.6 times the high school dropout rate of their white peers, and they are 1.3 times more likely to be unemployed and 6 times more likely to have a felony conviction. YMI seeks to address these disparities. The initial phase of YMI focused on the launch of new programs targeting young men of color. This next phase will focus on overhauling City agencies’ approach to interacting with and serving these populations. City efforts will focus on neighborhoods in central Brooklyn, southeast Queens, northern Manhattan, South Bronx, and the North Shore of Staten Island. “By deepening New York City’s commitment to the Young Men’s Initiative, we are fighting inequality at its root in neighborhoods in every borough,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “New York City is answering President Obama’s call and doubling down on its commitments to expanding literacy in our youngest children, ensuring our high school graduates are ready for college and career, and forging a deeper partnership between police and community to prevent crime.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio and the city of New York for working to strengthen the lives of boys and young men of color, and all youth through the Young Men’s Initiative,” said Broderick Johnson, Chair of President Obama’s My Brother’s Keeper Task Force. “In aligning this next phase of YMI with the President’s My Brother’s Keeper initiative, Mayor de Blasio joins more than 150 Mayors, County executives and tribal leaders across the country who recognize that our nation is stronger when every child has the tools they need to succeed. From making sure that every child is reading at grade level by second grade; to increasing graduation rates; to working to keep youth safe from violent crime; and to building stronger relationships between community and law enforcement, YMI continues to be a national leader in this vital work. We are excited about this next phase and look forward to working with the city of New York to ensure all youth can reach their full potential.” “Growing up in East New York, I saw one reality play out in my own neighborhood and another on the streets of Manhattan, where I went to high school. We can’t reach our full potential as a city until every child and young person—regardless of the color of the skin or the zip code they were born in—has an opportunity to thrive. The Young Men’s Initiative has laid tremendous groundwork these past three years for us to build on. Now, we’re going to put the full weight of City government behind it to drive achievement and opportunity for more young men of color,” said Deputy Mayor for Strategic Policy Initiatives Richard Buery. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to lead such a critically important office on behalf of this great city. I look forward to building new bridges and forging strong relationships that increase avenues of opportunity for New York City’s young men of color. I want to thank Mayor de Blasio and Deputy Mayor Buery for their tremendous leadership and look forward to building this movement together,” said Cyrus Garrett, incoming Executive Director of the Young Men’s Initiative. Three goals within My Brother’s Keeper will provide the focal points for four new City programs under the Young Men’s Initiative: Goal: Ensuring all children read at grade level by 2nd grade Program: Increase Tutoring – Provide direct support through tutoring and reading programs for 10,000 children age K-2. Goal: Ensuring all youth complete post-secondary education and training Program: High School Mentoring – Increase mentoring opportunities focused on preparing young people for college by engaging with existing non-profits who provide mentorship. Engage 5,000 young men of color by 2017. Program: Education Career Recruitment – Develop new initiatives and programs aiming to put an additional 1,000 men of color on course to become NYC public school teachers over the next three years. Goal: Ensuring all youth remain safe from violent crime Program: NYPD Community Relations – Establish a central role for YMI in efforts to improve community/police relations. This will include meaningful opportunities for police officers and young men of color to interact in positive spaces. The City has a $22.5 million annual commitment to the Young Men’s Initiative, nearly half of which is dedicated to employment-services programs such as Jobs-Plus, with additional investments in the areas of education, health and justice. The City will leverage existing agency programs and resources to augment YMI’s reach. The Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City will seek to maintain and expand private support for programming. To align City government fully with YMI’s priorities, agencies including the Human Resources Administration, Department of Education, Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and Administration for Children’s Services are undertaking agency-wide reviews to evaluate their outcomes and interactions with young men of color. Those reviews will be articulated in an annual report tracking disparities facing African American and Latino men in New York City, and the steps being undertaken to address them. The City will also reconstitute the YMI Advisory Board, undertake a new public engagement campaign, and convene officials and thought leaders at both the city and national level. “The New York City’s Young Men’s Initiative works to improve the life outcomes of our city’s young men, regardless of who they are and where they come from,” said Chancellor Carmen Fariña. “I applaud the Mayor for addressing the opportunity gaps faced by black and Latino males and providing opportunities and support to help our students reach their full potential.” “We are proud to work with YMI to expand programs like Jobs-Plus, which help connect young men to jobs and services,” said HRA Commissioner Steven Banks. “We are also reforming our employment programs to serve our clients’ individual needs, including a new initiative designed specifically for youth with a focus on education, including college, to ensure they have access to the opportunities that will help them succeed.” “NYCHA is proud to support the City’s Young Men’s Initiative, which has empowered so many young people both in public housing and citywide,” said NYCHA Chair and CEO Shola Olatoye. “Through the expansion of programs such as Jobs-Plus, which connects public housing residents to vital job training and placements, we are helping our youth to secure their futures.” “DCA could not be prouder of our partnership with Jobs-Plus, and today’s announcement will allow us to work with the administration and other agencies with an even greater emphasis of bringing opportunities to men of color,” said DCA Commissioner Julie Menin. “Our Financial Empowerment Center counselors work with participants to determine their best course of action for building long-term financial stability through setting wage goals in their job search, reducing debt accrued during their un- or under-employment, and reviewing their credit reports, all which have proven beneficial.” “The Young Men’s Initiative is a critical component of the Department of Probation’s ability to work with, and develop sustainable change for, men most impacted by the Criminal Justice system. We work closely with our community partners to offer comprehensive, engaging, wrap-around services for our clients, laying the ground work for them to earn a high school diploma, learn and develop marketable skills, earn a college degree, attain gainful employment, significantly increase creative involvement with their families, and participate productively in civic life. We thank Mayor de Blasio for his leadership on this issue and continued support of young men in New York City,” said Ana Bermudez, Commissioner, Department of Probation. “Our City non-profit partners from the Mayor’s Fund to the Fund for Public Schools have been proud partners of the YMI work. We look forward to continuing to foster public-private partnerships that support our City’s efforts to expand opportunities for young men of color across educational, health, employment, and criminal justice systems,” said Gabrielle Fialkoff, Senior Advisor to the Mayor and Director of the Office of Strategic Partnerships. “Until the popularity of our city translates into prosperity for all of its residents, our mission as public servants will be far from complete. Institutional and cultural factors have long disadvantaged young men of color from reaching their full potential. Tackling the challenges youth face from an early age, including the support provided by tutoring and mentoring programs, can go a long way toward leading them to positive outcomes. Additionally, ensuring that they are directly involved in advancing police-community relations will keep them safer and make our policing even stronger. I thank Mayor de Blasio for his attention to the welfare of our young men of color, in central Brooklyn and beyond, and I look forward to working with the Young Men’s Initiative to ensure we achieve its lofty goals,” said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “On behalf of the people of the Ninth Congressional District of New York, I commend Mayor de Blasio for his commitment to the Young Men’s Initiative, by introducing programs that will allow young men to develop their talents and to share in the promise of our civil society. We have here an opportunity to reduce the disparities that prevent many young men from completing high school and college and acquiring the skills required to find work. By starting with young children and continuing our focus on their development, we will reduce and ultimately eliminate these disparities. I will work with Mayor de Blasio and Executive Director Cyrus Garrett to support this Young Men’s Initiative and its high purpose for our young men,” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. “I thank Mayor de Blasio for his unwavering commitment to expanding opportunities for our constituents to build a better future for their families and our City. I welcome Cyrus Garrett and look forward to supporting him as he carries out the extremely vital work of equipping our young men with the necessary resources to walk on a path to success and thrive,” saidCongressman Charles Rangel. “The New York City’s Young Men’s initiative is a crucial resource for our young Black and Latino men and for our community as a whole. Thanks to this program, young men in the Bronx can access the tools and support they need to succeed academically and reach their full potential. I applaud Mayor de Blasio’s efforts to close the opportunity and achievement gap of minority men, and working to make sure New York City offers them the best counseling possible,” said Congressman Jose E. Serrano. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for taking these steps today. These five initiatives represent an approach that puts young men of color in a position to succeed. Mentoring, teacher engagement, and high expectations help communities face complex challenges and overcome the obstacles inequality presents. I also commend Mayor de Blasio for pursuing a whole-of-government approach to these challenges. Enlisting multiple agencies to examine their current practices and provide annual updates builds a firm foundation for future action,” said State Senator Jesse Hamilton. “Often, the challenges facing men of color can be quite formidable, but with the right education, guidance and opportunities, our community can—and will—succeed. I applaud Mayor Bill de Blasio’s efforts through NYC’s Young Men’s Initiative for targeting the areas that need it most, and giving our community the best shot at achieving great things,” said State Senator Jose Serrano. “This comprehensive initiative represents a potentially profound step forward in our fight against inequality,” said State Senator Jose Peralta. “Closing the achievement gap and providing meaningful access to quality education and job-training are perhaps the most important challenges of our time. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for making this investment in the future of our youth.” “I’m proud join Mayor de Blasio in welcoming Executive Director Cyrus Garret to the NYC Young Men’s Initiative. This new experienced leadership and the efforts to align YMI to President Obama’s My Brother’s Keeper program will truly offer the resources and mentorship needed by so many youths as they aim for academic and career success while avoiding the perils of gang related activity. As the City continues to grow its physical infrastructure, YMI helps uplift something more important, the lives and opportunities of our next generation,” said Assemblyman Marcos Crespo. “In order to truly move towards a better future we must ensure that all our children have the resources to obtain an adequate education and a support system to guide and motivate them. This combination is the key to their success and the Mayor’s Young Men’s Initiative will provide a lifeline that will ensure success is reached. Each day the need to properly invest in our young men of color becomes more evident. Under Mayor de Blasio’s Young Men’s Initiative youth in communities across the city will not only been given the tools to attend college but also to graduate and succeed beyond the classroom,” said Council Member Ydanis Rodriguez. “As the Chair of the Youth Services Committee, I am delighted with the positive changes that Mayor Bill de Blasio is making to the Young Men’s Initiative. The five new City programs that are being instituted as part of the initiative will go a long way towards ensuring that our youth graduate high school and do not become victims of violent crime. I am confident that Cyrus Garrett, Mayor de Blasio’s newly appointed Executive Director of the Young Men’s Initiative, will do a fine job in seeing that the new programs are properly administered and successfully fulfilled. Mr. Garrett has extensive experience in strategic education policy, communications and planning, a background which prepares him well for his new position,” said Council Member Mathieu Eugene. “We have witnessed notable improvements in closing the achievement gaps for young men of color since the inception of the Young Men’s Initiative. Now, the My Brother’s Keeper program will provide support to our most vulnerable students of color starting from kindergarten, by ensuring they read at the appropriate grade levels, graduate high school, and have mentorship opportunities in safe neighborhoods, enabling them to achieve success in college; leading to enriching career paths for them to choose. I am confident that under the new leadership of Cyrus Garrett, our young men will continue to overcome the systemic challenges that have long plagued our communities, and have a chance at a successful and vibrant future,” said Council Member Anabel Palma. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio’s commitment to focus on strategic efforts to advance opportunities for young men through the Young Men’s Initiative. This creative approach, brings together tutoring and mentoring services, access to higher education and careers while addressing the challenges facing our young men, will make a significant impact on their future. As the Chair of Public Safety, it is important that our young men have opportunities to engage with law enforcement in a positive way. I welcome the new Executive Director, Cyrus Garrett and his wealth of experience in community and police relations, and look forward to working with the administration on this initiative,” said Council Member Vanessa Gibson. “Just a few months ago President Obama delivered a challenge to communities across the nation. He urged us to reach for new levels of education, opportunity, and safety for our children,” said Council Member I. Daneek Miller. “Today it is with great pride that New York City accepts the My Brother’s Keeper community challenge and, through the Young Men’s Initiative, seeks to build on it. The initiative’s new goals prioritize youth literacy, foster pathways into higher education and career training, and will improve the dynamic in which law enforcement interacts with communities of color. I applaud this investment, as well as the selection of Cyrus Garrett to direct the program, and thank Mayor de Blasio for his leadership and consideration of the initiative.” “The Young Men’s Initiative will save lives. Its goals—and the programs that support those goals—are critical to the development of young New Yorkers who aspire to greatness, but who may require additional support or encouragement in their navigation of the world. This program is also particularly positioned to help young immigrants in their experience of our city. Although as a young man of color growing up in Texas, I didn’t have the privilege of a program such as this, but I recognize now how crucial that may have been in helping me to make the decisions of my life. The commitment of Mayor de Blasio, and the leadership of Cyrus Garret will ensure the success of this initiative citywide,” said Council Member Carlos Menchaca. “I am pleased to see Mayor de Blasio investing in resources for young men of color. We need to do everything we can to end the school-to-prison pipeline, and the mentoring and tutoring programs included in this initiative can make a big difference. I am especially glad that this program includes creating the opportunity for young men of color to interact with the NYPD in a positive way. I look forward to working with Mr. Garrett to move these programs forward,” said Council Member Antonio Reynoso. “YMI is an integral piece to addressing the many disparities faced particularly by young men of color,” said Council Member Donovan Richards. “The $22 million infusion, along with the introduction of programs that emphasize education, employment opportunity and crime prevention, will equip young men in New York City with the tools needed to guarantee their individual success.” “I am thrilled to witness the beginning of this necessary expansion of the Young Men’s Initiative. I applaud Mayor de Blasio on extending the reach of the initiative to better serve our city’s most vulnerable young men. The goals of the initiative continue to be laudable, and I look forward to helping in any way I can with its implementation,” said Council Member Darlene Mealy. About Cyrus Garrett Garrett, most recently the political advisor at Everytown for Gun Safety and national deputy director at Mayors Against Illegal Guns, brings extensive experience in strategic education policy, communications, and planning to his new position. Beforehand, Garrett worked as deputy director of secretary planning on the Presidential Inaugural Committee, and as deputy field director for Organizing for America. Prior to that, Garrett worked at the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement (CNE) as special advisor to the director. He has also served at the Federal Department of Education in strategic communication and as speechwriter, and has helped design and implement the White House Internship program. Previously, Garrett served on the 2008 and 2012 Obama presidential campaigns in Indiana and Ohio. Before joining the ‘08 campaign, Garrett worked as a gang and drug counselor at the Eldora State Training School for Boys in Iowa. Garrett earned his degree in criminology University of Northern Iowa. ###
02.02.2015	YMI to offer critical support for President Obama’s ‘My Brother’s Keeper’ Initiative, boosting efforts in literacy, workforce training, and crime prevention Cyrus Garrett, veteran of Everytown for Gun Safety and Organizing for America, named new director of YMI NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio today announced the next phase of New York City’s Young Men’s Initiative (YMI), including significant new commitments by the City to confront inequality and create opportunity for young men of color. First launched by Mayor Bloomberg in 2011, YMI’s programming will align with President Obama’s “My Brother’s Keeper” initiative, launching four new programs aimed at increasing literacy in young children, improving graduation rates and workforce readiness, as well as protecting youth from violent crime. To spearhead the next phase of YMI, Mayor de Blasio named Cyrus Garrett, a veteran of Everytown for Gun Safety and Organizing for America, as its new executive director. The announcement was made at the new Jobs-Plus Center at the Van Dyke Houses in Brownsville, which opened this month and is funded by the Young Men’s Initiative and administered by the NYC Human Resources Administration in partnership with the New York City Housing Authority, Center for Economic Opportunity, and Department of Consumer Affairs. The center expects to serve 1,600 local residents with job placements, training, financial counseling, and a range of supportive services. YMI works to connect black and Latino young people to opportunities and support that can lead them to success. Black and Hispanic young men have 1.6 times the high school dropout rate of their white peers, and they are 1.3 times more likely to be unemployed and 6 times more likely to have a felony conviction. YMI seeks to address these disparities. The initial phase of YMI focused on the launch of new programs targeting young men of color. This next phase will focus on overhauling City agencies’ approach to interacting with and serving these populations. City efforts will focus on neighborhoods in central Brooklyn, southeast Queens, northern Manhattan, South Bronx, and the North Shore of Staten Island. “By deepening New York City’s commitment to the Young Men’s Initiative, we are fighting inequality at its root in neighborhoods in every borough,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “New York City is answering President Obama’s call and doubling down on its commitments to expanding literacy in our youngest children, ensuring our high school graduates are ready for college and career, and forging a deeper partnership between police and community to prevent crime.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio and the city of New York for working to strengthen the lives of boys and young men of color, and all youth through the Young Men’s Initiative,” said Broderick Johnson, Chair of President Obama’s My Brother’s Keeper Task Force. “In aligning this next phase of YMI with the President’s My Brother’s Keeper initiative, Mayor de Blasio joins more than 150 Mayors, County executives and tribal leaders across the country who recognize that our nation is stronger when every child has the tools they need to succeed. From making sure that every child is reading at grade level by second grade; to increasing graduation rates; to working to keep youth safe from violent crime; and to building stronger relationships between community and law enforcement, YMI continues to be a national leader in this vital work. We are excited about this next phase and look forward to working with the city of New York to ensure all youth can reach their full potential.” “Growing up in East New York, I saw one reality play out in my own neighborhood and another on the streets of Manhattan, where I went to high school. We can’t reach our full potential as a city until every child and young person—regardless of the color of the skin or the zip code they were born in—has an opportunity to thrive. The Young Men’s Initiative has laid tremendous groundwork these past three years for us to build on. Now, we’re going to put the full weight of City government behind it to drive achievement and opportunity for more young men of color,” said Deputy Mayor for Strategic Policy Initiatives Richard Buery. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to lead such a critically important office on behalf of this great city. I look forward to building new bridges and forging strong relationships that increase avenues of opportunity for New York City’s young men of color. I want to thank Mayor de Blasio and Deputy Mayor Buery for their tremendous leadership and look forward to building this movement together,” said Cyrus Garrett, incoming Executive Director of the Young Men’s Initiative. Three goals within My Brother’s Keeper will provide the focal points for four new City programs under the Young Men’s Initiative: Goal: Ensuring all children read at grade level by 2nd grade Program: Increase Tutoring – Provide direct support through tutoring and reading programs for 10,000 children age K-2. Goal: Ensuring all youth complete post-secondary education and training Program: High School Mentoring – Increase mentoring opportunities focused on preparing young people for college by engaging with existing non-profits who provide mentorship. Engage 5,000 young men of color by 2017. Program: Education Career Recruitment – Develop new initiatives and programs aiming to put an additional 1,000 men of color on course to become NYC public school teachers over the next three years. Goal: Ensuring all youth remain safe from violent crime Program: NYPD Community Relations – Establish a central role for YMI in efforts to improve community/police relations. This will include meaningful opportunities for police officers and young men of color to interact in positive spaces. The City has a $22.5 million annual commitment to the Young Men’s Initiative, nearly half of which is dedicated to employment-services programs such as Jobs-Plus, with additional investments in the areas of education, health and justice. The City will leverage existing agency programs and resources to augment YMI’s reach. The Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City will seek to maintain and expand private support for programming. To align City government fully with YMI’s priorities, agencies including the Human Resources Administration, Department of Education, Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and Administration for Children’s Services are undertaking agency-wide reviews to evaluate their outcomes and interactions with young men of color. Those reviews will be articulated in an annual report tracking disparities facing African American and Latino men in New York City, and the steps being undertaken to address them. The City will also reconstitute the YMI Advisory Board, undertake a new public engagement campaign, and convene officials and thought leaders at both the city and national level. “The New York City’s Young Men’s Initiative works to improve the life outcomes of our city’s young men, regardless of who they are and where they come from,” said Chancellor Carmen Fariña. “I applaud the Mayor for addressing the opportunity gaps faced by black and Latino males and providing opportunities and support to help our students reach their full potential.” “We are proud to work with YMI to expand programs like Jobs-Plus, which help connect young men to jobs and services,” said HRA Commissioner Steven Banks. “We are also reforming our employment programs to serve our clients’ individual needs, including a new initiative designed specifically for youth with a focus on education, including college, to ensure they have access to the opportunities that will help them succeed.” “NYCHA is proud to support the City’s Young Men’s Initiative, which has empowered so many young people both in public housing and citywide,” said NYCHA Chair and CEO Shola Olatoye. “Through the expansion of programs such as Jobs-Plus, which connects public housing residents to vital job training and placements, we are helping our youth to secure their futures.” “DCA could not be prouder of our partnership with Jobs-Plus, and today’s announcement will allow us to work with the administration and other agencies with an even greater emphasis of bringing opportunities to men of color,” said DCA Commissioner Julie Menin. “Our Financial Empowerment Center counselors work with participants to determine their best course of action for building long-term financial stability through setting wage goals in their job search, reducing debt accrued during their un- or under-employment, and reviewing their credit reports, all which have proven beneficial.” “The Young Men’s Initiative is a critical component of the Department of Probation’s ability to work with, and develop sustainable change for, men most impacted by the Criminal Justice system. We work closely with our community partners to offer comprehensive, engaging, wrap-around services for our clients, laying the ground work for them to earn a high school diploma, learn and develop marketable skills, earn a college degree, attain gainful employment, significantly increase creative involvement with their families, and participate productively in civic life. We thank Mayor de Blasio for his leadership on this issue and continued support of young men in New York City,” said Ana Bermudez, Commissioner, Department of Probation. “Our City non-profit partners from the Mayor’s Fund to the Fund for Public Schools have been proud partners of the YMI work. We look forward to continuing to foster public-private partnerships that support our City’s efforts to expand opportunities for young men of color across educational, health, employment, and criminal justice systems,” said Gabrielle Fialkoff, Senior Advisor to the Mayor and Director of the Office of Strategic Partnerships. “Until the popularity of our city translates into prosperity for all of its residents, our mission as public servants will be far from complete. Institutional and cultural factors have long disadvantaged young men of color from reaching their full potential. Tackling the challenges youth face from an early age, including the support provided by tutoring and mentoring programs, can go a long way toward leading them to positive outcomes. Additionally, ensuring that they are directly involved in advancing police-community relations will keep them safer and make our policing even stronger. I thank Mayor de Blasio for his attention to the welfare of our young men of color, in central Brooklyn and beyond, and I look forward to working with the Young Men’s Initiative to ensure we achieve its lofty goals,” said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “On behalf of the people of the Ninth Congressional District of New York, I commend Mayor de Blasio for his commitment to the Young Men’s Initiative, by introducing programs that will allow young men to develop their talents and to share in the promise of our civil society. We have here an opportunity to reduce the disparities that prevent many young men from completing high school and college and acquiring the skills required to find work. By starting with young children and continuing our focus on their development, we will reduce and ultimately eliminate these disparities. I will work with Mayor de Blasio and Executive Director Cyrus Garrett to support this Young Men’s Initiative and its high purpose for our young men,” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. “I thank Mayor de Blasio for his unwavering commitment to expanding opportunities for our constituents to build a better future for their families and our City. I welcome Cyrus Garrett and look forward to supporting him as he carries out the extremely vital work of equipping our young men with the necessary resources to walk on a path to success and thrive,” said Congressman Charles Rangel. “The New York City’s Young Men’s initiative is a crucial resource for our young Black and Latino men and for our community as a whole. Thanks to this program, young men in the Bronx can access the tools and support they need to succeed academically and reach their full potential. I applaud Mayor de Blasio’s efforts to close the opportunity and achievement gap of minority men, and working to make sure New York City offers them the best counseling possible,” said Congressman Jose E. Serrano. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for taking these steps today. These five initiatives represent an approach that puts young men of color in a position to succeed. Mentoring, teacher engagement, and high expectations help communities face complex challenges and overcome the obstacles inequality presents. I also commend Mayor de Blasio for pursuing a whole-of-government approach to these challenges. Enlisting multiple agencies to examine their current practices and provide annual updates builds a firm foundation for future action,” said State Senator Jesse Hamilton. “Often, the challenges facing men of color can be quite formidable, but with the right education, guidance and opportunities, our community can—and will—succeed. I applaud Mayor Bill de Blasio’s efforts through NYC’s Young Men’s Initiative for targeting the areas that need it most, and giving our community the best shot at achieving great things,” said State Senator Jose Serrano. “This comprehensive initiative represents a potentially profound step forward in our fight against inequality,” said State Senator Jose Peralta. “Closing the achievement gap and providing meaningful access to quality education and job-training are perhaps the most important challenges of our time. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for making this investment in the future of our youth.” “I’m proud join Mayor de Blasio in welcoming Executive Director Cyrus Garret to the NYC Young Men’s Initiative. This new experienced leadership and the efforts to align YMI to President Obama’s My Brother’s Keeper program will truly offer the resources and mentorship needed by so many youths as they aim for academic and career success while avoiding the perils of gang related activity. As the City continues to grow its physical infrastructure, YMI helps uplift something more important, the lives and opportunities of our next generation,” said Assemblyman Marcos Crespo. “In order to truly move towards a better future we must ensure that all our children have the resources to obtain an adequate education and a support system to guide and motivate them. This combination is the key to their success and the Mayor’s Young Men’s Initiative will provide a lifeline that will ensure success is reached. Each day the need to properly invest in our young men of color becomes more evident. Under Mayor de Blasio’s Young Men’s Initiative youth in communities across the city will not only been given the tools to attend college but also to graduate and succeed beyond the classroom,” said Council Member Ydanis Rodriguez. “As the Chair of the Youth Services Committee, I am delighted with the positive changes that Mayor Bill de Blasio is making to the Young Men’s Initiative. The five new City programs that are being instituted as part of the initiative will go a long way towards ensuring that our youth graduate high school and do not become victims of violent crime. I am confident that Cyrus Garrett, Mayor de Blasio’s newly appointed Executive Director of the Young Men’s Initiative, will do a fine job in seeing that the new programs are properly administered and successfully fulfilled. Mr. Garrett has extensive experience in strategic education policy, communications and planning, a background which prepares him well for his new position,” said Council Member Mathieu Eugene. “We have witnessed notable improvements in closing the achievement gaps for young men of color since the inception of the Young Men’s Initiative. Now, the My Brother’s Keeper program will provide support to our most vulnerable students of color starting from kindergarten, by ensuring they read at the appropriate grade levels, graduate high school, and have mentorship opportunities in safe neighborhoods, enabling them to achieve success in college; leading to enriching career paths for them to choose. I am confident that under the new leadership of Cyrus Garrett, our young men will continue to overcome the systemic challenges that have long plagued our communities, and have a chance at a successful and vibrant future,” said Council Member Anabel Palma. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio’s commitment to focus on strategic efforts to advance opportunities for young men through the Young Men’s Initiative. This creative approach, brings together tutoring and mentoring services, access to higher education and careers while addressing the challenges facing our young men, will make a significant impact on their future. As the Chair of Public Safety, it is important that our young men have opportunities to engage with law enforcement in a positive way. I welcome the new Executive Director, Cyrus Garrett and his wealth of experience in community and police relations, and look forward to working with the administration on this initiative,” said Council Member Vanessa Gibson. “Just a few months ago President Obama delivered a challenge to communities across the nation. He urged us to reach for new levels of education, opportunity, and safety for our children,” said Council Member I. Daneek Miller. “Today it is with great pride that New York City accepts the My Brother’s Keeper community challenge and, through the Young Men’s Initiative, seeks to build on it. The initiative’s new goals prioritize youth literacy, foster pathways into higher education and career training, and will improve the dynamic in which law enforcement interacts with communities of color. I applaud this investment, as well as the selection of Cyrus Garrett to direct the program, and thank Mayor de Blasio for his leadership and consideration of the initiative.” “The Young Men’s Initiative will save lives. Its goals—and the programs that support those goals—are critical to the development of young New Yorkers who aspire to greatness, but who may require additional support or encouragement in their navigation of the world. This program is also particularly positioned to help young immigrants in their experience of our city. Although as a young man of color growing up in Texas, I didn’t have the privilege of a program such as this, but I recognize now how crucial that may have been in helping me to make the decisions of my life. The commitment of Mayor de Blasio, and the leadership of Cyrus Garret will ensure the success of this initiative citywide,” said Council Member Carlos Menchaca. “I am pleased to see Mayor de Blasio investing in resources for young men of color. We need to do everything we can to end the school-to-prison pipeline, and the mentoring and tutoring programs included in this initiative can make a big difference. I am especially glad that this program includes creating the opportunity for young men of color to interact with the NYPD in a positive way. I look forward to working with Mr. Garrett to move these programs forward,” said Council Member Antonio Reynoso. “YMI is an integral piece to addressing the many disparities faced particularly by young men of color,” said Council Member Donovan Richards. “The $22 million infusion, along with the introduction of programs that emphasize education, employment opportunity and crime prevention, will equip young men in New York City with the tools needed to guarantee their individual success.” “I am thrilled to witness the beginning of this necessary expansion of the Young Men’s Initiative. I applaud Mayor de Blasio on extending the reach of the initiative to better serve our city’s most vulnerable young men. The goals of the initiative continue to be laudable, and I look forward to helping in any way I can with its implementation,” said Council Member Darlene Mealy. About Cyrus Garrett Garrett, most recently the political advisor at Everytown for Gun Safety and national deputy director at Mayors Against Illegal Guns, brings extensive experience in strategic education policy, communications, and planning to his new position. Beforehand, Garrett worked as deputy director of secretary planning on the Presidential Inaugural Committee, and as deputy field director for Organizing for America. Prior to that, Garrett worked at the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement (CNE) as special advisor to the director. He has also served at the Federal Department of Education in strategic communication and as speechwriter, and has helped design and implement the White House Internship program. Previously, Garrett served on the 2008 and 2012 Obama presidential campaigns in Indiana and Ohio. Before joining the ‘08 campaign, Garrett worked as a gang and drug counselor at the Eldora State Training School for Boys in Iowa. Garrett earned his degree in criminology University of Northern Iowa. ###
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Obama laid out his vision to continue moving forward and build on the progress we have made as a nation. I fully agree with the President that we need to seize the moment, and build on it by investing in our continued economic progress and providing all Americans with more economic opportunities. “I couldn’t agree more with his message about the importance of strengthening the middle class and providing people with more opportunities to move into the middle class. As the President outlined, we do this by cutting taxes and expanding tax credits for the middle class, reforming our business tax code, raising the minimum wage, and keeping good paying jobs in America. “We also need continue promoting housing and college accessibility, and protect the progress we have made in expanding access to affordable health care. I was particularly pleased to hear President Obama talking about importance of supporting women in the workforce, a topic we have ignored for too long. “To continue growing our economy and ensure America remains competitive, I agree with the President that we need to reform our business tax code, invest in our infrastructure and promote innovation. “In the foreign policy arena, I fully support President Obama’s policy towards Cuba and his call on Congress to help him continue updating our failed policy towards the island. We also need to strengthen our national security, instead of putting it at risk, as Republicans are doing by putting forth an extreme anti-immigrant Homeland Security Bill that threatens to partially shut down our government in an effort to prevent the President from implementing Executive Action on immigration. “In fact, I was glad to hear President urging Republicans to stop putting American families’ security at risk by continuing to pick fights on the issue of immigration and explicitly say that he will veto any legislation of this kind. “In recent months, the President Obama has demonstrated his willingness to take bold action and to get things done to continue moving forward. Tonight, the President renewed his commitment to continue fighting for a stronger America that works for all, not just a few. I have no doubt that he will continue putting forth and supporting brave policy initiatives throughout the next year based on the priorities he outlined in his speech. Republicans need to put politics aside and join Democrats at the table to pass legislation and implement policies in the interest of the American people. ###
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Obama laid out his vision to continue moving forward and build on the progress we have made as a nation. I fully agree with the President that we need to seize the moment, and build on it by investing in our continued economic progress and providing all Americans with more economic opportunities. “I couldn’t agree more with his message about the importance of strengthening the middle class and providing people with more opportunities to move into the middle class. As the President outlined, we do this by cutting taxes and expanding tax credits for the middle class, reforming our business tax code, raising the minimum wage, and keeping good paying jobs in America. “We also need continue promoting housing and college accessibility, and protect the progress we have made in expanding access to affordable health care. I was particularly pleased to hear President Obama talking about importance of supporting women in the workforce, a topic we have ignored for too long. “To continue growing our economy and ensure America remains competitive, I agree with the President that we need to reform our business tax code, invest in our infrastructure and promote innovation. “In the foreign policy arena, I fully support President Obama’s policy towards Cuba and his call on Congress to help him continue updating our failed policy towards the island. We also need to strengthen our national security, instead of putting it at risk, as Republicans are doing by putting forth an extreme anti-immigrant Homeland Security Bill that threatens to partially shut down our government in an effort to prevent the President from implementing Executive Action on immigration. “In fact, I was glad to hear President urging Republicans to stop putting American families’ security at risk by continuing to pick fights on the issue of immigration and explicitly say that he will veto any legislation of this kind. “In recent months, the President Obama has demonstrated his willingness to take bold action and to get things done to continue moving forward. Tonight, the President renewed his commitment to continue fighting for a stronger America that works for all, not just a few. I have no doubt that he will continue putting forth and supporting brave policy initiatives throughout the next year based on the priorities he outlined in his speech. Republicans need to put politics aside and join Democrats at the table to pass legislation and implement policies in the interest of the American people. ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman José E. Serrano released today the following statement in commemoration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Few men have had an impact on our nation’s history and the national discourse around race relations and social justice as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Today, we honor his life and legacy and renew our commitment to continue fighting for greater justice and economic opportunity for all regardless of race or social background. “While we have certainly made great progress as a nation on these fronts since the Civil Rights Movement, we have also backtracked on certain areas and have more work to do in others. Dr. King’s legacy remains as important as ever. The Supreme Court’s decision to strike down several important parts the Voting Rights Act in 2013 serves as example of why we can’t give up the fight. “Let’s make sure we keep moving forward, not backwards. In the spirit of courage, service, and peace that guided Dr. King’s life, let’s continue fighting for an inclusive America that guarantees justice, equality, and prosperity for all.” ###
01.15.2015	NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio today announced that the City financed the creation and preservation of more than 17,300 affordable units during calendar year 2014. With 11,185 preserved units and 6,191 new construction units financed, the City exceeded its first year projections by more than 1,300 affordable units. Based on average household size, these new and preserved units are enough to affordably house nearly 42,000 New Yorkers. Preservation of affordable housing—keeping existing residents in their homes, rehabilitating old apartments and building systems, and locking in long-term affordability—is a major element of the Housing New York plan for 200,000 affordable units. The Mayor made the announcement at 45-55 North Elliott Place in Brooklyn, a low-income cooperative home to 159 families earning less than $60,000 per year for a family of four—and many residents considerably less. In December 2014, the administration invested $3.1 million in capital funding, with an additional $250,000 dedicated by Public Advocate Letitia James during her tenure as Council Member, to ensure the building will remain affordable for another 30 years, keeping longtime residents in their homes in this rapidly gentrifying neighborhood. The funding will also provide for upgrades including replacing windows, asbestos removal, elevator rehabilitation and boiler replacement. Housing New York confronts an affordability crisis that affects families ranging from the most vulnerable to those in the middle class. More than 86 percent of the units financed in 2014 were for extremely low, very low, low-income families (see chart below). And to support housing for critical elements of the city’s workforce—such as nurses, police, firefighters, office workers, and teachers—a further 2,400 units were financed for moderate and middle-income households. “We came fast out of the gate with an aggressive affordable housing strategy to meet this crisis. That urgency translated into work on thousands of new units, as well as thousands of tenants that now will be able to remain in their own homes,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “By ramping up new construction and preventing displacement within our neighborhoods, we’re laying the foundation for a more affordable city. And in 2015, we expect even bigger and better results.” As the City approaches its next milestone in the Housing New York plan—the end of Fiscal Year 2015—it is on pace to exceed the fiscal year target of financing 16,000 units between July 1, 2014 and June 30, 2015. As of December 31, 8,600 of those units had been financed. This first year’s strong showing resulted from the Mayor’s decision to double HPD’s capital budget, favorable market conditions, and an emphasis on making the financing process more efficient. The City leveraged approximately $1.9 billion in bonds issued by HDC during 2014, which ranked HDC first in the nation among all municipal housing bond issuers for the year. In 2015, the pipeline of new and preserved affordable housing will continue to increase as the administration’s first area-wide rezonings move through the land use process, RFPs are issued on additional publicly owned sites, new construction programs launch, and City agencies further streamline their operations. Progress under Housing New York: Income Band Percentage of AMI Monthly Rent Required to Prevent Rent-Burden Annual Income (4-person household) 2014 Units Extremely Low Income 0-30% Up to $629 <$25,150 823 Very Low Income 31-50% $630-$1,049 $25,151-$41,950 1,603 Low Income 51-80% $1,050-$1,678 $41,951-$67,120 12,411 Moderate Income 81-120% $1,679-$2,517 $67,121-$100,680 877 Middle Income 121-165% $2,158-$3,461 $100,681-$138,435 1,534 *An additional 128 units house onsite superintendents. Borough 2014 Units Bronx 5,518 Brooklyn 5,190 Manhattan 5,022 Queens 1,044 Staten Island 602 Project Type 2014 Units New Construction 6,191 Preservation 11,185 All data are based on preliminary project information. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for the affordable housing his administration has created and preserved during his first year in office. The future growth and prosperity of our great city depends on meeting our affordable housing challenges head on, and Mayor de Blasio is taking on this challenge with leadership and focus. Whether it is preserving federal Low Income Housing Tax Credits, securing dollars for boiler repair in public housing, or successfully advocating for the capitalization of the National Housing Trust Fund, I will continue to deliver and work for any and all available federal investments to help Mayor de Blasio see this housing plan through,” said Senator Charles Schumer. “I commend the administration’s work in creating and preserving over 17,000 affordable units throughout last year. Today, 56 North Elliott Place—a former military housing site— is home to 159 low-and-moderate-income families, thanks to an ambitious $3 million administrative investment that includes City Council funding. Today, we begin to turn the tide and offer greater stability to working-families. I look forward to working with the administration to promote affordable housing projects throughout the City of New York,” said Public Advocate Letitia James. “Brooklyn is home to everyone from everywhere, and it must remain that way in an affordable, sustainable fashion. We have made important strides in the past year in creating and preserving thousands of affordable housing units in this borough, and I believe the momentum towards progress for all will only build in the months ahead. I thank the de Blasio administration for prioritizing of affordable housing, and I look forward to continuing to work with them to identify and execute opportunities for affordability across Brooklyn, from Greenpoint to Gerristen Beach,” said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Been have had a successful year expanding our affordable housing stock through preservation and new construction, laying the foundation for even more progress to come,” said Manhattan Borough President Gale A. Brewer. “Now we must look to our leaders in Albany to protect our rent laws and plug the legal holes that threaten to allow too many of our affordable apartments to slip away.” “In 2014, we not only crafted the most comprehensive and ambitious housing plan in the nation and rolled out many new programs to align our housing production with the plan’s core values and objectives—we also exceeded our production targets,” said HPD Commissioner Vicki Been. “Financing more than 17,000 affordable units in our first year is a great achievement, but there is much more work to be done in our efforts to bring relief to New Yorkers facing increasing rent burdens. My thanks to Mayor de Blasio and Deputy Mayor Glen for their leadership, to the staffs at HPD and HDC for their commitment and excellent work, to our not-for-profit and for profit development partners for their dedication to providing affordable housing, and to our community leaders, tenant advocates, and elected officials, who have given us ideas and supported our efforts to make this a more affordable and equitable city.” “Mayor Bill de Blasio’s Housing New York plan is as visionary as it is essential, and the production achieved in 2014 is a brilliant start to delivering on the promise and purpose of that plan. I thank the Mayor, Deputy Mayor Glen, and Commissioner Been for their vision and commitment; and I salute their staffs and my own for their passion and dedication. The numbers celebrated today are not only about units; but about the lives those units will impact and the opportunities they will provide. HDC looks forward to working with the administration and our valued partners on many more years of successful Housing New York,” said HDC President Gary Rodney. Department of Buildings Commissioner Rick D. Chandler said, “We are proud to have worked closely with HPD this year to streamline our permitting, inspection and technological processes, helping to enable these outstanding affordable housing figures that surpassed expectations. This achievement proves the significant benefits that can be realized when agencies collaborate to meet the needs of the public.” “We applaud Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Been for prioritizing the preservation of New York City’s affordable housing stock and recognizing that we cannot simply build our way out of New York City’s housing crisis,” said Adriene Holder, Attorney in Charge of The Legal Aid Society’s Civil Practice. “We look forward to working with this administration to ensure that the almost one million units of rent regulated units remain an affordable housing resource through strengthening the rent laws and closing their loopholes.” “Affordable housing for low and moderate income tenants is essential for diverse and liveable neighborhoods. We commend Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Been for the progress on preserving and developing affordable housing units. We look forward to working with the administration to preserve and protect the rent regulated housing stock in the upcoming rent renewal year for 2.5 million low and moderate income New Yorkers,” said Katie Goldstein, Executive Director of Tenants & Neighbors. “Mayor de Blasio’s plan to address the housing needs of all New Yorkers is off to a promising start. With more than 17,300 affordable housing units built or preserved in its first year, we look forward to a continued successful collaboration with the administration on this critically important goal,” said Steven Spinola, President, Real Estate Board of New York. “The preservation of affordable housing units is one of the greatest challenges we face as one of the largest cities in the world. Over the past several decades, the city’s inventory of affordable housing units and preservation efforts did not keep up with the growing needs of our citizens. I applaud the Mayor for making this one of the highest priorities of his administration, and I look forward to seeing more rehabilitation and new construction in areas of the city with the greatest needs,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. “I commend Mayor de Blasio on the successful first year of his administration’s Housing New York plan,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “Because of the investments made under this plan, thousands of New Yorkers will be able to remain in their homes, with a roof over their heads at a reasonable cost. Affordable housing is vital to keeping the middle class alive and well in our city. As New York continues to add and preserve thousands of affordable housing units, I look forward to working with Mayor de Blasio to ensure the implementation of the Housing New York plan continues to be as successful in the coming years as it was during its first.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for making the issue of affordable housing a top priority for our city,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “I have been fighting in Washington to secure federal funds that will help cities build more affordable housing. I’m proud that in December, after years of my urging, the Federal Housing Finance Agency decided to again fund the National Housing Trust Fund and Capital Magnet Fund, which will provide hundreds of millions of dollars each year for affordable housing. I believe we can do a great deal more, and I will continue working with the Mayor to ensure that working and middle-class people can afford to live and thrive in New York City.” “Thanks to Mayor de Blasio’s commitment, I am proud that our City is reaching its first year goals to create and preserve affordable housing. The success of our Mayor’s plan is an important step forward in advancing equal opportunity and quality of life for our constituents. Access to affordable housing is essential first step on the path to economic mobility, and I will continue to fight for it in Congress,” said Congressman Charles Rangel. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for the unprecedented progress made under Housing New York. As someone who grew up in a city housing project, I know how vital these units are for so many New York families. I am pleased that the City has made affordable housing a top priority, and am thrilled to see the exceptional results of that attention, especially in the Bronx. It is imperative we continue to offer assistance to those most in need, and I commend Mayor de Blasio for doing just that,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “Housing affordability is not only key to growing and strengthening our working class but it is critical to the sustainability and future success of our city,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “I’m glad affordable housing is a priority for this administration and am encouraged by the impact programs like Housing New York can have to ensure our city is more livable for all New Yorkers,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “Keeping housing affordable for working families must remain a priority at all levels of government – federal, state and local. While I’m pleased to see additional resources are helping preserve the City’s stock of affordable housing, we must continue pushing for additional progress in this area,” said Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez. “Substantial disparities in income and wealth have resulted in a crisis in which many families in New York City cannot afford to pay rent or buy a home, as prices continue to increase even as wages stagnate. Mayor de Blasio understands this crisis, and he has a plan to keep New York City residents in their homes at an affordable cost. This effort involves not only the establishment of a living wage – which he has worked to achieve – but also the construction of affordable housing units and the preservation of affordable homes that already exist. Mayor de Blasio established high priorities for affordable housing and – with 11,150 units preserved and another 6,150 units of new affordable housing financed – he has exceeded them by 1,300 in the first year of implementation. I congratulate the Mayor and the Department of Housing Preservation & Development on their success, and I am committed to working with them to create the additional 200,000 units of affordable housing we need in the next ten years.” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. “Affordable housing is a priority for the residents of New York City and Mayor de Blasio has delivered, and exceeded everyone’s expectations, on his promise to protect and expand access to quality and affordable housing. Thanks to his efforts, there are an additional 6,150 affordable housing units in the Bronx. This is only the beginning and I look forward to continue seeing the results of the Mayor’s Housing New York Program during the next couple of years.” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “I am very happy to learn that the Mayor’s efforts to preserve affordable housing are bearing fruit so beautifully, and so soon! In my district, my people are facing a severe affordability crisis. In fact, tonight I will be holding a major community meeting with other electeds, housing advocates, and hundreds of community members to begin a movement to ensure that all necessary laws are passed and that the pressure on our neighborhoods is relieved. I look forward to continuing to work with the Mayor on this critical work,” said Senator Velmanette Montgomery. “News that the Mayor’s Housing New York Plan has created and preserved over 17,000 affordable units is an excellent indicator of things to come. As our urban landscape evolves, it is essential that we continue to protect and prioritize the issues surrounding the city's housing stock. I will continue to be a vocal advocate and active in the fight to address the housing needs in our community,” said Assemblyman Walter T. Mosley. “My district, primarily made up of Greenpoint and Williamsburg, is a prime example of an area that is in desperate need of affordable housing. I would say about 75 percent of the constituent calls my district office receives are from people looking for affordable housing. If that doesn’t illustrate the need for affordable housing in New York City, I don’t know what does. I look forward to working with the Mayor to secure more affordable housing throughout New York City,” said Assemblyman Joseph R. Lentol. “In neighborhoods across Brooklyn, like Fort Greene, affordable housing must remain accessible to single-parent households, minimum wage earners, low and middle-income families,” said Council Member Laurie A. Cumbo. In order to strengthen our city, we must become an inclusive society by embracing our economic diversity. Housing New York builds upon our shared commitment to ensuring that families are not uprooted from their communities by preserving the affordability of a city we all call home. Affordable housing is a vital component of our “new” New York City that is dedicated to narrowing the opportunity divide.” “Mayor de Blasio, Deputy Mayor Glen, and Commissioner Been have accomplished great work this year in dramatically expanding the stock of affordable housing available to New Yorkers,” said Council Member Brad Lander. “The fact that the City has exceeded its projections for 2014 is testament to the commitment and dedication this administration has to creating real change in the affordable housing landscape. I’m proud to support the de Blasio administration’s efforts to increase the number of spaces our city’s most vulnerable residents can call home, and I look forward to seeing even more affordable units created throughout the next year.” “Affordable housing is crucial to our success as a city. Thank you to Mayor de Blasio for his commitment to making New York City a place where all New Yorkers can make it,” said Council Member Steve Levin. “The shortage of affordable housing plagues New Yorkers citywide. In building and preserving thousands of new units, the Mayor's plan continues to tackle this crisis in an innovative way. Affordable housing is crucial for struggling families throughout our city. I thank Mayor de Blasio for his commitment and progress in making housing more affordable for New York City,” said Council Member David Greenfield. “We congratulate Mayor de Blasio for a successful first year of his ambitious plan to create more affordable housing for New Yorkers,” said Sam Marks, Executive Director of LISC New York City. “At LISC, we look forward to continued partnership on this comprehensive effort to make sure that every New Yorker has an affordable, safe, healthy place to live.” “We congratulate the De Blasio Administration in surpassing its FY 2014 goal of 16,000 affordable units. We stand ready to work with the Administration and will support efforts to create programs and improve current policy aimed at increasing the production of affordable housing for deserving NYC residents of all income levels,” said Meredith Marshall, Managing Partner and Co-founder of BRP Companies. “We applaud the Mayor and the Council for strengthening code enforcement laws by passing the Quality Housing Act in their first year. Those laws will improve the housing conditions of thousands of tenants and hold negligent landlords to do repairs,” said Javier H. Valdes of Make the Road NY. “Affordable housing is such a critical need in Queens where families pay a high percentage of their income for overcrowded and in some cases inappropriate living spaces. Queens Community House applauds the mayor's efforts to create more housing for average New Yorkers,” said Irma Rodriguez, Executive Director, Queens Community House. “As a Harlemite and activist who has been caught in the city’s housing bureaucracy looking to buy the home I lived in for over thirty years, I am more than excited to learn about Mayor de Blasio’s plan for more affordable housing and homeownership, and what sounds like greater provision of oversight where management of such housing is concerned. As it is important that the City continues to finance and monitor the creation of new affordable housing to meet the needs of its residents and community caretakers,” said Iesha Sekou of Streets Corner Resources “This year, we have seen a sea change in the number of affordable housing units put under way, the populations they serve, and creative uses of available financing tools to produce them. What is equally as impressive, is the next “wave” of affordable housing on the horizon which will prove to go beyond this year’s already impressive production,” said Les Bluestone, Principal of Blue Sea Development. “From the North Bronx to the South Bronx, to the far reaches of northern Manhattan, SoBRO has been a proud partner of Housing NYC. By joining with the Mayor’s office, HPD, and our affiliates on the NYC Housing Implementation Advisory Board, SoBRO is pleased to be a part of a historic precedent in providing over 200,000 new and preserved units of housing—the most aggressive and meaningful steps in urban housing in recent memory. Today’s announcement is more than a symbol of our City’s progress in exceeding the expectation, it is progress—it is ensuring that all New Yorkers have a place to call home,” said Phillip Morrow, President and CEO of the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. Preserving Affordability and Improving Housing Quality Maintaining the quality and affordability of the existing housing stock is critical to the goals outlined in Housing New York. In 2014, there were 11,150 preservation units financed—which is more than 65 percent of the total units financed in 2014. This financing will help keep New Yorkers in their homes and ensure that the properties they live in are well-maintained both financially and physically. Preservation financing typically helps to extend the affordability and finance repairs/maintenance of existing affordable housing, and can also be used bring new properties into affordability programs by assisting in the acquisition and rehabilitation of privately owned low-income housing. Increasing the City’s Affordable Housing Stock As the population of New York City grows, it is important that the City continues to finance the creation of new affordable housing to meet the needs of its residents. This year, the City financed approximately 6,150 new units of housing that will provide affordable homes to low and moderate income New Yorkers. In late 2014, HPD and HDC announced the creation of new programs and across the board changes to existing programs to better align the city’s future affordable housing production with the priorities of the Mayor’s housing plan. As the housing plan progresses, these key changes will help to stretch public subsidy, encourage mixed-income development, aggregate small sites to create new rental and homeownership opportunity, and help address the homeless crisis and provide housing for those with special needs. For more information regarding the new term sheets for the City’s affordable housing programs, please visit the HPD and HDC websites. Streamlining Agency Efforts to Increase Productivity As they committed to do in the housing plan, HPD and HDC have undertaken a review of agency procedures and policies in an effort to find efficiencies in a number of processes and requirements to better streamline the production and preservation of affordable housing. HPD has dramatically reduced the burdens the regulatory review processes impose on inclusionary housing projects. For example, lengthy design and architectural reviews have been replaced by a new system that uses architect’s certification, combined with random audits, to ensure compliance with design requirements. Additionally, HPD and the NYC Department of Buildings are working to adopt a common technology that will allow both agencies and the developer to review the architectural drawings, and are working to prioritize affordable housing applications. HPD and HDC also have taken steps to make the NYC Housing Connect online lottery portal even more user-friendly by increasing accessibility to the disabled and those for whom English is not a first language. Additionally, HPD has restructured internal marketing divisions to encourage better coordination and information sharing about the vacancies that naturally occur over time in buildings, in addition to newly constructed units. Additional details about streamlining efforts will be announced throughout 2015. Learn more at nyc.gov/housing. pressoffice@cityhall.nyc.gov (212) 788-2958
01.15.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano, a longtime advocate of ending the embargo against Cuba, released the following statement today in response to the publication of regulatory amendments that implement the easing in travel, remittances, trade, and banking sanctions on Cuba announced by President Obama last month. The new regulations, announced today by the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Commerce, take effect tomorrow, January 16, 2015. “The regulatory amendments announced today legally implement the historic changes announced by President Obama last month to ease some of the restrictions that prevent the American people, businesses, and government officials from engaging with Cuba. Thanks to this much-needed update in our laws, there will be more and better opportunities for Americans and Cubans to interact, send remittances, and engage in commercial activities. This activity, in turn, will support economic prosperity, entrepreneurship, and openness in the island. With this change, we are one step closer to having in place a sensible, common sense policy towards Cuba.” Congressman Serrano is currently Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, which oversees the Department of Treasury including the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). OFAC has jurisdiction over most of the regulations announced today. During his 24 years in Congress, Congressman Serrano has consistently advocated for a change in U.S.-Cuba relations and an end to the Cuba embargo. Throughout the years he has introduced various pieces of legislation with respect to Cuba, including the Cuba Reconciliation Act, which repeals the U.S. embargo, and the Baseball Diplomacy Act. In 2009, Congressman Serrano inserted language in the House Appropriations bill that rolled back the restrictions on family travel that were implemented by the Bush administration. He also worked to roll back restrictions on agricultural trade between the two nations in the same bill. Thanks to his efforts, the groundwork was laid for President Obama to take further action to expand family travel later that year. More recently, he has successfully fought against attempts to reinstate more restrictive travel policies in the Appropriations process.
01.15.2015	January 15, 2015 City exceeds projection of 16,000 units for calendar year 2014 as it begins project to preserve the affordability of 159 low-income co-op units in rapidly gentrifying Fort Greene NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio today announced that the City financed the creation and preservation of more than 17,300 affordable units during calendar year 2014. With 11,185 preserved units and 6,191 new construction units financed, the City exceeded its first year projections by more than 1,300 affordable units. Based on average household size, these new and preserved units are enough to affordably house nearly 42,000 New Yorkers. Preservation of affordable housing—keeping existing residents in their homes, rehabilitating old apartments and building systems, and locking in long-term affordability—is a major element of the Housing New York plan for 200,000 affordable units. The Mayor made the announcement at 45-55 North Elliott Place in Brooklyn, a low-income cooperative home to 159 families earning less than $60,000 per year for a family of four—and many residents considerably less. In December 2014, the administration invested $3.1 million in capital funding, with an additional $250,000 dedicated by Public Advocate Letitia James during her tenure as Council Member, to ensure the building will remain affordable for another 30 years, keeping longtime residents in their homes in this rapidly gentrifying neighborhood. The funding will also provide for upgrades including replacing windows, asbestos removal, elevator rehabilitation and boiler replacement. Housing New York confronts an affordability crisis that affects families ranging from the most vulnerable to those in the middle class. More than 86 percent of the units financed in 2014 were for extremely low, very low, low-income families (see chart below). And to support housing for critical elements of the city’s workforce—such as nurses, police, firefighters, office workers, and teachers—a further 2,400 units were financed for moderate and middle-income households. “We came fast out of the gate with an aggressive affordable housing strategy to meet this crisis. That urgency translated into work on thousands of new units, as well as thousands of tenants that now will be able to remain in their own homes,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “By ramping up new construction and preventing displacement within our neighborhoods, we’re laying the foundation for a more affordable city. And in 2015, we expect even bigger and better results.” As the City approaches its next milestone in the Housing New York plan—the end of Fiscal Year 2015—it is on pace to exceed the fiscal year target of financing 16,000 units between July 1, 2014 and June 30, 2015. As of December 31, 8,600 of those units had been financed. This first year’s strong showing resulted from the Mayor’s decision to double HPD’s capital budget, favorable market conditions, and an emphasis on making the financing process more efficient. The City leveraged approximately $1.9 billion in bonds issued by HDC during 2014, which ranked HDC first in the nation among all municipal housing bond issuers for the year. In 2015, the pipeline of new and preserved affordable housing will continue to increase as the administration’s first area-wide rezonings move through the land use process, RFPs are issued on additional publicly owned sites, new construction programs launch, and City agencies further streamline their operations. Progress under Housing New York: Income Band Percentage of AMI Monthly Rent Required to Prevent Rent-Burden Annual Income (4-person household) 2014 Units Extremely Low Income 0-30% Up to $629 <$25,150 823 Very Low Income 31-50% $630-$1,049 $25,151-$41,950 1,603 Low Income 51-80% $1,050-$1,678 $41,951-$67,120 12,411 Moderate Income 81-120% $1,679-$2,517 $67,121-$100,680 877 Middle Income 121-165% $2,158-$3,461 $100,681-$138,435 1,534 *An additional 128 units house onsite superintendents. Borough 2014 Units Bronx 5,518 Brooklyn 5,190 Manhattan 5,022 Queens 1,044 Staten Island 602 Project Type 2014 Units New Construction 6,191 Preservation 11,185 All data are based on preliminary project information. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for the affordable housing his administration has created and preserved during his first year in office. The future growth and prosperity of our great city depends on meeting our affordable housing challenges head on, and Mayor de Blasio is taking on this challenge with leadership and focus. Whether it is preserving federal Low Income Housing Tax Credits, securing dollars for boiler repair in public housing, or successfully advocating for the capitalization of the National Housing Trust Fund, I will continue to deliver and work for any and all available federal investments to help Mayor de Blasio see this housing plan through,” said Senator Charles Schumer. “I commend the administration’s work in creating and preserving over 17,000 affordable units throughout last year. Today, 56 North Elliott Place—a former military housing site— is home to 159 low-and-moderate-income families, thanks to an ambitious $3 million administrative investment that includes City Council funding. Today, we begin to turn the tide and offer greater stability to working-families. I look forward to working with the administration to promote affordable housing projects throughout the City of New York,” said Public Advocate Letitia James. “Brooklyn is home to everyone from everywhere, and it must remain that way in an affordable, sustainable fashion. We have made important strides in the past year in creating and preserving thousands of affordable housing units in this borough, and I believe the momentum towards progress for all will only build in the months ahead. I thank the de Blasio administration for prioritizing of affordable housing, and I look forward to continuing to work with them to identify and execute opportunities for affordability across Brooklyn, from Greenpoint to Gerristen Beach,” said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Been have had a successful year expanding our affordable housing stock through preservation and new construction, laying the foundation for even more progress to come,” said Manhattan Borough President Gale A. Brewer. “Now we must look to our leaders in Albany to protect our rent laws and plug the legal holes that threaten to allow too many of our affordable apartments to slip away.” “In 2014, we not only crafted the most comprehensive and ambitious housing plan in the nation and rolled out many new programs to align our housing production with the plan’s core values and objectives—we also exceeded our production targets,” said HPD Commissioner Vicki Been. “Financing more than 17,000 affordable units in our first year is a great achievement, but there is much more work to be done in our efforts to bring relief to New Yorkers facing increasing rent burdens. My thanks to Mayor de Blasio and Deputy Mayor Glen for their leadership, to the staffs at HPD and HDC for their commitment and excellent work, to our not-for-profit and for profit development partners for their dedication to providing affordable housing, and to our community leaders, tenant advocates, and elected officials, who have given us ideas and supported our efforts to make this a more affordable and equitable city.” “Mayor Bill de Blasio’s Housing New York plan is as visionary as it is essential, and the production achieved in 2014 is a brilliant start to delivering on the promise and purpose of that plan. I thank the Mayor, Deputy Mayor Glen, and Commissioner Been for their vision and commitment; and I salute their staffs and my own for their passion and dedication. The numbers celebrated today are not only about units; but about the lives those units will impact and the opportunities they will provide. HDC looks forward to working with the administration and our valued partners on many more years of successful Housing New York,” said HDC President Gary Rodney. Department of Buildings Commissioner Rick D. Chandler said, “We are proud to have worked closely with HPD this year to streamline our permitting, inspection and technological processes, helping to enable these outstanding affordable housing figures that surpassed expectations. This achievement proves the significant benefits that can be realized when agencies collaborate to meet the needs of the public.” “We applaud Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Been for prioritizing the preservation of New York City’s affordable housing stock and recognizing that we cannot simply build our way out of New York City’s housing crisis,” said Adriene Holder, Attorney in Charge of The Legal Aid Society’s Civil Practice. “We look forward to working with this administration to ensure that the almost one million units of rent regulated units remain an affordable housing resource through strengthening the rent laws and closing their loopholes.” “Affordable housing for low and moderate income tenants is essential for diverse and liveable neighborhoods. We commend Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner Been for the progress on preserving and developing affordable housing units. We look forward to working with the administration to preserve and protect the rent regulated housing stock in the upcoming rent renewal year for 2.5 million low and moderate income New Yorkers,” said Katie Goldstein, Executive Director of Tenants & Neighbors. “Mayor de Blasio’s plan to address the housing needs of all New Yorkers is off to a promising start. With more than 17,300 affordable housing units built or preserved in its first year, we look forward to a continued successful collaboration with the administration on this critically important goal,” said Steven Spinola, President, Real Estate Board of New York. “The preservation of affordable housing units is one of the greatest challenges we face as one of the largest cities in the world. Over the past several decades, the city’s inventory of affordable housing units and preservation efforts did not keep up with the growing needs of our citizens. I applaud the Mayor for making this one of the highest priorities of his administration, and I look forward to seeing more rehabilitation and new construction in areas of the city with the greatest needs,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. “I commend Mayor de Blasio on the successful first year of his administration’s Housing New York plan,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “Because of the investments made under this plan, thousands of New Yorkers will be able to remain in their homes, with a roof over their heads at a reasonable cost. Affordable housing is vital to keeping the middle class alive and well in our city. As New York continues to add and preserve thousands of affordable housing units, I look forward to working with Mayor de Blasio to ensure the implementation of the Housing New York plan continues to be as successful in the coming years as it was during its first.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for making the issue of affordable housing a top priority for our city,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “I have been fighting in Washington to secure federal funds that will help cities build more affordable housing. I’m proud that in December, after years of my urging, the Federal Housing Finance Agency decided to again fund the National Housing Trust Fund and Capital Magnet Fund, which will provide hundreds of millions of dollars each year for affordable housing. I believe we can do a great deal more, and I will continue working with the Mayor to ensure that working and middle-class people can afford to live and thrive in New York City.” “Thanks to Mayor de Blasio’s commitment, I am proud that our City is reaching its first year goals to create and preserve affordable housing. The success of our Mayor’s plan is an important step forward in advancing equal opportunity and quality of life for our constituents. Access to affordable housing is essential first step on the path to economic mobility, and I will continue to fight for it in Congress,” said Congressman Charles Rangel. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for the unprecedented progress made under Housing New York. As someone who grew up in a city housing project, I know how vital these units are for so many New York families. I am pleased that the City has made affordable housing a top priority, and am thrilled to see the exceptional results of that attention, especially in the Bronx. It is imperative we continue to offer assistance to those most in need, and I commend Mayor de Blasio for doing just that,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “Housing affordability is not only key to growing and strengthening our working class but it is critical to the sustainability and future success of our city,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “I’m glad affordable housing is a priority for this administration and am encouraged by the impact programs like Housing New York can have to ensure our city is more livable for all New Yorkers,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “Keeping housing affordable for working families must remain a priority at all levels of government – federal, state and local. While I’m pleased to see additional resources are helping preserve the City’s stock of affordable housing, we must continue pushing for additional progress in this area,” said Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez. “Substantial disparities in income and wealth have resulted in a crisis in which many families in New York City cannot afford to pay rent or buy a home, as prices continue to increase even as wages stagnate. Mayor de Blasio understands this crisis, and he has a plan to keep New York City residents in their homes at an affordable cost. This effort involves not only the establishment of a living wage – which he has worked to achieve – but also the construction of affordable housing units and the preservation of affordable homes that already exist. Mayor de Blasio established high priorities for affordable housing and – with 11,150 units preserved and another 6,150 units of new affordable housing financed – he has exceeded them by 1,300 in the first year of implementation. I congratulate the Mayor and the Department of Housing Preservation & Development on their success, and I am committed to working with them to create the additional 200,000 units of affordable housing we need in the next ten years.” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. “Affordable housing is a priority for the residents of New York City and Mayor de Blasio has delivered, and exceeded everyone’s expectations, on his promise to protect and expand access to quality and affordable housing. Thanks to his efforts, there are an additional 6,150 affordable housing units in the Bronx. This is only the beginning and I look forward to continue seeing the results of the Mayor’s Housing New York Program during the next couple of years.” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “I am very happy to learn that the Mayor’s efforts to preserve affordable housing are bearing fruit so beautifully, and so soon! In my district, my people are facing a severe affordability crisis. In fact, tonight I will be holding a major community meeting with other electeds, housing advocates, and hundreds of community members to begin a movement to ensure that all necessary laws are passed and that the pressure on our neighborhoods is relieved. I look forward to continuing to work with the Mayor on this critical work,” said Senator Velmanette Montgomery. “News that the Mayor’s Housing New York Plan has created and preserved over 17,000 affordable units is an excellent indicator of things to come. As our urban landscape evolves, it is essential that we continue to protect and prioritize the issues surrounding the city's housing stock. I will continue to be a vocal advocate and active in the fight to address the housing needs in our community,” said Assemblyman Walter T. Mosley. “My district, primarily made up of Greenpoint and Williamsburg, is a prime example of an area that is in desperate need of affordable housing. I would say about 75 percent of the constituent calls my district office receives are from people looking for affordable housing. If that doesn’t illustrate the need for affordable housing in New York City, I don’t know what does. I look forward to working with the Mayor to secure more affordable housing throughout New York City,” said Assemblyman Joseph R. Lentol. “In neighborhoods across Brooklyn, like Fort Greene, affordable housing must remain accessible to single-parent households, minimum wage earners, low and middle-income families,” said Council Member Laurie A. Cumbo. In order to strengthen our city, we must become an inclusive society by embracing our economic diversity. Housing New York builds upon our shared commitment to ensuring that families are not uprooted from their communities by preserving the affordability of a city we all call home. Affordable housing is a vital component of our “new” New York City that is dedicated to narrowing the opportunity divide.” “Mayor de Blasio, Deputy Mayor Glen, and Commissioner Been have accomplished great work this year in dramatically expanding the stock of affordable housing available to New Yorkers,” said Council Member Brad Lander. “The fact that the City has exceeded its projections for 2014 is testament to the commitment and dedication this administration has to creating real change in the affordable housing landscape. I’m proud to support the de Blasio administration’s efforts to increase the number of spaces our city’s most vulnerable residents can call home, and I look forward to seeing even more affordable units created throughout the next year.” “Affordable housing is crucial to our success as a city. Thank you to Mayor de Blasio for his commitment to making New York City a place where all New Yorkers can make it,” said Council Member Steve Levin. “The shortage of affordable housing plagues New Yorkers citywide. In building and preserving thousands of new units, the Mayor's plan continues to tackle this crisis in an innovative way. Affordable housing is crucial for struggling families throughout our city. I thank Mayor de Blasio for his commitment and progress in making housing more affordable for New York City,” said Council Member David Greenfield. “We congratulate Mayor de Blasio for a successful first year of his ambitious plan to create more affordable housing for New Yorkers,” said Sam Marks, Executive Director of LISC New York City. “At LISC, we look forward to continued partnership on this comprehensive effort to make sure that every New Yorker has an affordable, safe, healthy place to live.” “We congratulate the De Blasio Administration in surpassing its FY 2014 goal of 16,000 affordable units. We stand ready to work with the Administration and will support efforts to create programs and improve current policy aimed at increasing the production of affordable housing for deserving NYC residents of all income levels,” said Meredith Marshall, Managing Partner and Co-founder of BRP Companies. “We applaud the Mayor and the Council for strengthening code enforcement laws by passing the Quality Housing Act in their first year. Those laws will improve the housing conditions of thousands of tenants and hold negligent landlords to do repairs,” said Javier H. Valdes of Make the Road NY. “Affordable housing is such a critical need in Queens where families pay a high percentage of their income for overcrowded and in some cases inappropriate living spaces. Queens Community House applauds the mayor's efforts to create more housing for average New Yorkers,” said Irma Rodriguez, Executive Director, Queens Community House. “As a Harlemite and activist who has been caught in the city’s housing bureaucracy looking to buy the home I lived in for over thirty years, I am more than excited to learn about Mayor de Blasio’s plan for more affordable housing and homeownership, and what sounds like greater provision of oversight where management of such housing is concerned. As it is important that the City continues to finance and monitor the creation of new affordable housing to meet the needs of its residents and community caretakers,” said Iesha Sekou of Streets Corner Resources “This year, we have seen a sea change in the number of affordable housing units put under way, the populations they serve, and creative uses of available financing tools to produce them. What is equally as impressive, is the next “wave” of affordable housing on the horizon which will prove to go beyond this year’s already impressive production,” said Les Bluestone, Principal of Blue Sea Development. “From the North Bronx to the South Bronx, to the far reaches of northern Manhattan, SoBRO has been a proud partner of Housing NYC. By joining with the Mayor’s office, HPD, and our affiliates on the NYC Housing Implementation Advisory Board, SoBRO is pleased to be a part of a historic precedent in providing over 200,000 new and preserved units of housing—the most aggressive and meaningful steps in urban housing in recent memory. Today’s announcement is more than a symbol of our City’s progress in exceeding the expectation, it is progress—it is ensuring that all New Yorkers have a place to call home,” said Phillip Morrow, President and CEO of the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. Preserving Affordability and Improving Housing Quality Maintaining the quality and affordability of the existing housing stock is critical to the goals outlined in Housing New York. In 2014, there were 11,150 preservation units financed—which is more than 65 percent of the total units financed in 2014. This financing will help keep New Yorkers in their homes and ensure that the properties they live in are well-maintained both financially and physically. Preservation financing typically helps to extend the affordability and finance repairs/maintenance of existing affordable housing, and can also be used bring new properties into affordability programs by assisting in the acquisition and rehabilitation of privately owned low-income housing. Increasing the City’s Affordable Housing Stock As the population of New York City grows, it is important that the City continues to finance the creation of new affordable housing to meet the needs of its residents. This year, the City financed approximately 6,150 new units of housing that will provide affordable homes to low and moderate income New Yorkers. In late 2014, HPD and HDC announced the creation of new programs and across the board changes to existing programs to better align the city’s future affordable housing production with the priorities of the Mayor’s housing plan. As the housing plan progresses, these key changes will help to stretch public subsidy, encourage mixed-income development, aggregate small sites to create new rental and homeownership opportunity, and help address the homeless crisis and provide housing for those with special needs. For more information regarding the new term sheets for the City’s affordable housing programs, please visit the HPD and HDC websites.Streamlining Agency Efforts to Increase Productivity As they committed to do in the housing plan, HPD and HDC have undertaken a review of agency procedures and policies in an effort to find efficiencies in a number of processes and requirements to better streamline the production and preservation of affordable housing. HPD has dramatically reduced the burdens the regulatory review processes impose on inclusionary housing projects. For example, lengthy design and architectural reviews have been replaced by a new system that uses architect’s certification, combined with random audits, to ensure compliance with design requirements. Additionally, HPD and the NYC Department of Buildings are working to adopt a common technology that will allow both agencies and the developer to review the architectural drawings, and are working to prioritize affordable housing applications. HPD and HDC also have taken steps to make the NYC Housing Connect online lottery portal even more user-friendly by increasing accessibility to the disabled and those for whom English is not a first language. Additionally, HPD has restructured internal marketing divisions to encourage better coordination and information sharing about the vacancies that naturally occur over time in buildings, in addition to newly constructed units. Additional details about streamlining efforts will be announced throughout 2015. Learn more at nyc.gov/housing. pressoffice@cityhall.nyc.gov (212) 788-2958
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released today the following statement on the Homeland Security Funding Bill and riders attached by Republicans: “It’s inconceivable that Republicans are choosing to play partisan politics at the expense of our nation’s security at such a vulnerable time. Their only objective is to satisfy the most extremist elements of their party by attempting to prevent President Obama from addressing our country’s broken immigration system through executive action to provide some relief to the immigrant community. Republicans keep saying they want comprehensive immigration reform, yet every time the topic is up for debate and Congress considers important related legislation, they only succeed at introducing and rallying behind radical anti-immigrant legislation. The amendments they propose adding to this bill will hurt millions of families, and do nothing to fix our broken immigration system. Republicans know the President will veto this misguided bill and as a result, their actions are threatening a partial government shutdown that would leave one of our nation’s most important national security agencies without the funds it needs to operate well and keep our citizens safe. Republicans should bring to the table a clean funding bill without all the poison pills that threaten to undermine common sense immigration initiatives and our nation’s ability to prevent terrorist acts.” ###
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – El Congresista José E. Serrano emitió hoy las siguientes declaraciones sobre el Proyecto de Ley de Presupuesto del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional y las enmiendas presentadas por Republicanos en la Cámara de Representantes: “Es inconcebible que los republicanos están optando por jugar a la política partidista a costa de la seguridad de nuestra nación sobre todo en un momento tan delicado. Su único objetivo es satisfacer a los elementos más extremistas de su partido, al tratar de impedir que el presidente Obama ejecutar acción ejecutiva para proporcionar algo de alivio a la comunidad inmigrante. Los republicanos siguen insistiendo que quieren una reforma migratoria integral, sin embargo, cada vez que el tema es debatido en el Congreso y se considera legislación relacionada importante, sólo presentan y se unen en apoyo a legislación anti-inmigrante radical. Las modificaciones que se proponen agregar a este proyecto de ley perjudicará a millones de familias, y no hacen nada para arreglar nuestro sistema de inmigración. Los republicanos saben que el Presidente vetará esta ley errada, como resultado, sus acciones representan una amenaza de un cierre parcial del gobierno que dejaría a una de las agencias de seguridad nacional más importantes sin los fondos que necesita para funcionar bien y proteger a nuestros ciudadanos. Los republicanos deberían presentar un presupuesto limpio sin todas las 'píldoras venenosas' que amenazan con socavar iniciativas de inmigración de sentido común y la capacidad de nuestra nación para prevenir actos terroristas.” ###
01.02.2015	The Bronx, NY – Congressman Jose E. Serrano (D-NY) today released the following statement on the passing of former New York Governor Mario Cuomo: “America has lost a great leader and public servant who dedicated his life to advancing the most pressing progressive causes and serving as a voice for the disadvantaged. I had the honor of working with him on many issues as a member of the New York State Assembly during his tenure as Governor and I will never forget his passion and commitment to building a strong and prosperous state for everyone, as well as his incredible negotiation skills and ability to get things done. His eloquence and command of the stage had the power to move and influence many like few are able to. To this day, his words remain a source of inspiration for all of us who believe a more just America is possible. For these reasons and many more, New York will never forget Governor Mario Cuomo. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family and loved ones during this difficult time.” ###
12.17.2014	The Bronx, NY – Congressman Jose E. Serrano released the following statement in response to the historic announcement made today by President Obama and Raul Castro that the United States and Cuba will begin normalizing relations. Both nations also announced the mutual release of prisoners –prisoner Alan Gross in Cuba and 3 Cuban prisoners in the United States. Among the steps announced today by Obama and Castro were: the normalization of diplomatic relations, including re-opening of the U.S. Embassy in Havana Cuba; expanding opportunities to travel to Cuba for U.S. citizens; increasing the amount and expanding the type of remittances allowed under the law; increasing and facilitating the sending of remittances to Cuba by people from the U.S.; expanding commercial sales and exports of products from the US to Cuba and the import of goods from Cuba to the US; facilitating commercial and financial transactions between both countries; expanding internet access and communications in Cuba; and initiating a review of Cuba’s designation of Cuba as a state sponsor of terrorism. Today is a historic day for the United States and the rest of the Western Hemisphere. For those of us who have advocated and worked for an end to the Cuban embargo and the normalization of relations between Cuba and the United States, this announcement is long overdue. This is a major step in ending our nation’s ineffective Cuba policies, and will pave the way for the eventual complete normalization of relations between the two countries. For far too long, our country has engaged in a counterproductive policy that hurts the very people it claims to help – the Cuban people. Today, that changes. I am very pleased the President has recognized the need for change in our relationship with Cuba. We currently have normal relations with other countries that have different forms of government, some of which are far more of a threat to national security. The cold war has been over for more than 20 years and there is no reason why this isolationist, punishing and misguided policy is still part of our foreign policy strategy. The Cuban embargo has hurt our standing in the world and our relationship with our neighbors in the Americas. Our policy towards Cuba should be one founded on respect and collaboration to the advantage of both nations. Today’s announcement finally moves us in this direction. The steps announced today will promote positive economic change in Cuba and help unleash the potential of millions of Cubans for the benefit of both nations. It will expand contact between two populations, Americans and Cubans that have long yearned for expanded opportunities to trade and interact. I applaud President Obama for his leadership on this issue and bold move to finally put an end to an outdated and unwise policy.” During his 24 years in Congress, Congressman Serrano has consistently advocated for a change in US-Cuba relations and an end to the Cuban embargo. Throughout the years he has introduced various pieces of legislation to end the Cuba embargo, including the Cuba Reconciliation Act, which repeals the US embargo entirely, and the Baseball Diplomacy Act. In 2009, Congressman Serrano inserted language in the House Appropriations bill that rolled back the restrictions on family travel that were implemented by the Bush administration. He also worked to roll back restrictions on agricultural trade between the two nations in the same bill. Thanks to his efforts, the groundwork was laid for President Obama to take further action to expand family travel later that year. More recently, he has successfully fought against attempts to reinstate more the restrictive travel policies in the Appropriations process. In 2000, Serrano was the lead Democrat involved in the Elian Gonzalez saga and advocated for reuniting him with his father in Cuba. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, today released the following statement in support of Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton’s (D-DC) interpretation that the D.C. marijuana rider included in the 2015 Omnibus Appropriations Bill (Section 809 of Division E) does not block the enactment of D.C.’s ballot initiative 71 to legalize marijuana and her intention to introduce an amendment at the House Rules Committee later today: “I completely agree with Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton’s interpretation that the D.C. marijuana rider included in the omnibus appropriations bill does not prevent Washington D.C. from legalizing marijuana as the Republican-led House Appropriations Committee claims it does. The Harris D.C. marijuana rider approved in the House does prevent D.C. from ‘carrying out’ enacted marijuana legislation, but the rider included in the omnibus bill does not. Instead, the language in the omnibus prevents the District from using funds to ‘enact’ any law, rule or regulation to legalize small amounts of marijuana for recreational use. This is a substantive difference that would be given weight in a statutory interpretation of the provision. Since it can be argued that D.C.’s initiative 71 is self- executing and that it was enacted when an overwhelming majority of voters supported it in the November elections, this means that Section 809 should not apply to the ballot initiative. “Based on this premise, the government of the District of Columbia should be able to move forward with the legalization of marijuana despite the rider included in the omnibus bill. That said, to clear up any confusion on the issue, I also fully support Congresswoman Norton’s efforts to offer an amendment in the House Rules’ Committee today to strike the rider and to help ensure Washington DC’s local laws and regulations ultimately prevail.” ###
12.03.2014	The Bronx, NY- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement on the grand jury decision not to indict Police Officer Daniel Pantaleo for the death of Eric Garner as a result of using an illegal chokehold during his arrest. “The grand jury’s decision today not to indict police officer Daniel Pantaleo in the case of Eric Garner is a disconcerting. Despite the indisputable visual evidence available in this case, and a ruling by the Chief Medical Examiner that Eric Garner’s death was a homicide, our criminal justice system did not vote to indict on a single criminal charge. Last week, the grand jury’s decision in the Ferguson left us with a sense of injustice. Today’s decision just adds to the feeling of that our criminal justice system is failing minority victims and letting the perpetrators get away. My sympathies go out to Eric Garner’s family, loved ones, and entire community in this difficult moment. “This decision provides additional proof that we need the U.S. Department of Justice to open a formal civil rights investigation to help bring justice in this case and change the way police departments relate to minority communities. It is now time for the U.S. Department of Justice to act. There also needs to be greater transparency in this type of legal proceeding.. In this case specifically, we need more details as to how the grand jury reached its final decision. “We also need to have a serious conversation about the state of race relations in America. It is time to at ourselves as a country and recognize that we have a major problem as to how we relate to each other. “Today’s decision will rightfully reignite the sense of outrage that many felt after the Ferguson grand jury decision, especially in New York. While I understand their frustration, I encourage people to express it through peaceful means. We don’t need to resort to violence to make our voices heard. “We can’t give up. We must continue pursuing justice for Eric Garner, Michael Brown, and all the other innocent minority men and women who are suffering the effects of police abuse and civil rights abuses.” Congressman Serrano joined Representative Jeffries and several other Members of Congress from New York City earlier this year in a letter to urge the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate the death of Eric Garner and the New York Police Department’s enforcement of the state’s government ‘broken windows’ policy. ###
12.01.2014	The Bronx, NY– Today, U.S. Congressman Jose E. Serrano released the following statement on World AIDS Day: “On World AIDS Day, let us recommit ourselves to fighting and finding a cure for a disease that still claims too many lives every year. Let’s also keep in our thoughts and prayers all the individuals who have lost the battle against HIV/AIDS or who are currently fighting this terrible disease. We must continue to educate ourselves and our communities to combat the spread of the virus and the stigma that is often associated with being HIV-positive. We also must continue working to improve the quality of life for those living with HIV/AIDS and to find a cure. “In New York, we have one of the highest rates of infection in the United States, with more than 100,000 people infected with the virus – more than 3 times the national average. A significant part of this population comes from low-income communities of color that lack adequate resources to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS. We have to allocate more resources, both here in New York and abroad, towards increasing funding for HIV/AIDS outreach, education and testing. “This is why in recent years, I have fought in Congress and made it a priority to increase the funding available for this type of programs. I have worked to successfully expand access to federal funding for syringe exchange programs by removing outdated bans on federal funding for these effective efforts. I have also worked to better fund the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program and housing programs to help HIV-positive homeless people. “We also have to help developing countries, which need the support of the international community, to reduce the rate of infection through similar prevention efforts and to get on par with developed nations in terms of treatment available for infected individuals. “World Aids Day serves as an opportunity to remember that we all have a role to play in these efforts –through advocacy and the support of legislation and policy in government, testing and sexual health awareness, financial support, the sharing useful knowledge and information with others, and fighting the fear and stigma that too often accompanies this disease.” For more information on AIDS/HIV, or to find your nearest testing center, please call the New York City Department of Health at 311 or visit www.nyc.gov/health.
11.25.2014	The Bronx, NY- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement on the grand jury decision not to indict Ferguson Police Officer Darren Wilson for the killing of unarmed teenager Michael Brown. “I am very troubled by the grand jury’s decision not to indict Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson for the killing of Michael Brown. This decision shows just how much work we must do as a nation to address fairness in our criminal justice system. Far too often we are faced with sadly familiar headlines and circumstances, and far too often we are left with a sense of injustice. “We must continue pursuing justice for Michael Brown through the U.S. Department of Justice’s investigation of the ruling, the circumstances surrounding the case, and local police practices in minority communities. Here in New York City, the case of Eric Garner is still pending and the U.S. Department of Justice should also investigate this case. We need to change the way that law enforcement interacts with minority communities throughout the country and the federal government has a large role to play in this effort. “While I understand the anger many in Ferguson and the rest of the country are feeling in this difficult moment, I urge people to express their frustration through peaceful means. We need to come together in the spirit of solidarity, strength and respect for each other. Let’s remember that - We Are One.” ###
11.21.2014	President Obama’s imminent announcement of significant changes in our country’s immigration system will bring temporary relief to millions across the nation Hosted by Mayor de Blasio in Gracie Mansion in New York on December 8th, the summit’s goal is to create a united front with cities that have led the nation in the adoption of common sense policies to welcome and embrace new immigrants NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio announced today that New York City is hosting a first-ever summit on December 8th with at least twenty mayors from cities across the country to discuss and lay out a step-by-step implementation plan of an executive order on immigration. “The President’s soon-to-be-announced reforms will initiate an economic, political and social transformation of our cities and our country,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “In New York City, I have directed a series of comprehensive initiatives to provide stability to all our immigrants—newly-arrived and those that have lived here for generations—that have already been promoting safer and stronger communities all across the city. This summit will offer a unique opportunity for mayors of many of our nation’s progressive cities to restate our leadership and responsibility on this decisive issue and to come out with an unbeatable master plan that truly prepares our localities for swift implementation of changes and also advocates for further reforms from the municipal level all the way up to Washington.” “We can’t wait any longer for immigration reform,” said Portland Mayor Michael Brennan. “I’m pleased President Obama is taking action as this reform will have a substantial impact on the people of Portland and Maine as a whole. I’m also pleased to join Mayor de Blasio and the coalition of mayors from around the country that support these efforts. ” “San Francisco is already a model for the nation in welcoming immigrants and empowering new citizens, but we must do more,” said San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee. “As the son of immigrant parents, I want others to know, San Francisco will continue its leadership on this issue and will remain a place that welcomes all residents, regardless of where or how they arrived. As a Sanctuary City, San Francisco will continue to work closely with our broad network of community-based organizations, philanthropic foundations, labor, education and City partners to continue to invest in the future of all San Franciscans.” “Our country has been built on the hard work of generations of immigrants,” said Seattle Mayor Ed Murray. “Today, one in five residents of my city is foreign-born. Every day, we see the economic contributions of immigrants in our cities. We need to reunite and bring undocumented families out of the shadows, integrating immigrants into our community. I look forward to working with Mayor de Blasio and the other mayors who are leading the charge on this issue.” “As mayors, we know first-hand that alleviating the challenges faced by our most marginalized residents strengthens our community as a whole,” said Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed. “The City of Atlanta is committed to working with cities across the country to implement President Obama’s Administrative Relief order to provide millions of aspiring citizens the opportunity to rightfully and legally contribute to our nation’s economy and strengthen our cities’ cultural fabric, economic growth and global competitiveness.” “The time for comprehensive immigration reform is long overdue,” said Providence Mayor Angel Taveras. “These are issues that impact our cities every day. Given Congress’s failure to act, I am proud to join Mayor de Blasio and other mayors to support the President’s executive order and fix our nation’s broken immigration system.” “I am pleased to join Mayor de Blasio and mayors from across the country in creating welcoming and inclusive cities,” said Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley. “As the country works toward a comprehensive immigration system, cities like New York and Dayton will continue to work with the resources available to provide opportunities for all people.” New York City is among tens of cities which have clearly defined a course of action to counter the anti-immigrant policy-making of some US localities. The de Blasio administration already has a track record for welcoming immigrant New Yorkers. From access to federal immigration benefits, from citizenship to U visas application assistance, from deferred action for childhood arrivals (DACA) to the City’s response to the unaccompanied child migrant crisis and new Immigration and Customs Enforcement Detainer legislation that will dramatically reduce deportations, the City has led a movement that cements the notion that a city’s prosperity and strength depends upon its new American residents having ample opportunities to reach their fullest potential and contribute to the well-being of our communities. In the face of Congress’s failure to pass immigration legislation to date, the nation’s President and the Department of Homeland Security have legal authority to prioritize enforcement efforts and provide temporary relief from deportation for undocumented immigrants who pose no public safety risk. Other presidents —including Eisenhower, Nixon, Reagan, Bush Sr., and Bush Jr. — have done the same. It is estimated that as many as five million immigrants in the country can benefit from this move, and municipalities across the nation will be responsible for further integrating these individuals to society. The goals of the summit are: Creating fertile ground at the municipal level for implementation of the presidential order through diverse and thorough outreach to immigrant communities and local authorities, among other initiatives. · Creating consensus on the need for a permanent solution to the nation’s broken immigration system through congressional action on comprehensive reform. As part of the summit, Commissioners of Immigrant Affairs of many cities will also be meeting in New York City to assess practical implementation of the executive action. The summit’s agenda offers opportunities for mayors to present on particular developments in their cities as well as get advice from legal experts. As a takeaway, each mayor in attendance will be challenged to meet a five-point strategy to achieve successful implementation. The summit will also kick off a national campaign that includes media appearances and events. Additionally, to support the implementation of executive action on immigration, New York City is convening a task force of dozens of city agencies to plan for a coordinated City-wide response that includes public engagement, education, and delivery of services to immigrants who will gain temporary legal status thanks to the President’s actions. “With the administration of Mayor de Blasio, New York City has become a leader in supporting the full participation in our civil society of Americans who will soon have legal status in the United States—for example, by establishing a program for municipal identification cards and ending cooperation with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,” said Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke. “These programs affirm our character as a community that welcomes people from around the world with open arms and will, I believe, become a model for other cities in the United States as we implement President Obama’s executive order to protect millions of Americans from deportation.” “President Obama knows there are real lives at stake in our current broken immigration system, and he will soon take decisive and meaningful action that will help American families stay together and American businesses stay competitive,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “As a gateway to America, New York City has been a leader in welcoming immigrants, and I’m pleased the City is convening this summit to put the President’s policies into practice and continue this proud tradition.” “It’s encouraging to see a coalition of mayors come together to find solutions for how to best implement President Obama’s executive order in their own cities,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “House Republicans’ refusal to act has left millions of undocumented immigrations living and working in our communities in limbo. We should welcome those who have come to our nation in search of a better life, as have countless generations before them. I look forward to seeing our nation’s mayors join the President to move our immigration system toward fairness and equality.” “I’m proud that New York continues to be a national leader on important issues like immigration reform. This leadership benefits our economy and New York families,” said Congressman Steve Israel. “I look forward to working with Mayor de Blasio as he implements these reforms in New York City.” “I commend Mayor de Blasio for hosting mayors from across the nation to discuss implementation strategies following the President's executive order on immigration,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. “These new immigration initiatives from the President, along with the Mayor's swift and thorough integration, will help unite communities, boost job creation, and contribute to steady economic growth. I applaud the Mayor's leadership to integrate the President’s immigration actions and his continuous effort to make NYC a shining example for the rest of the nation. ” “It is way past time to reform our nation’s immigration system, and this gathering of mayors will allow many of America’s cities to be on the same page when implementing the President’s executive order,” said Congresswoman Grace Meng. “It is critical to be unified on this effort, and I thank Mayor de Blasio for spearheading it.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for continuing to take a leadership role in reforming our immigration policies and for organizing this summit on President Obama’s upcoming executive order on immigration,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “We must stand with our immigrant communities, both because is the right thing to do and because it is what has made our city – and our nation – one of the greatest on earth. To not allow immigrants to ever take part in the American dream flies in the face of our nation’s history and some of our most important values.” “I am proud of Mayor de Blasio’s bold leadership in implementing President Obama’s executive order that will provide many of our constituents a chance at the American Dream,” said Congressman Charlie Rangel. “It is fitting that the Mayor’s immigration summit is taking place in New York City, where the Statue of Liberty stands tall reminding us that America’s legacy has been crafted by generations of hard-working men and women who moved to the United States from all over the globe in search of a better life. Regardless of one’s place of origin, everyone in America should have the same freedom and opportunities as those who came before them. ” “Our cities benefit immensely from the contributions of immigrants and they need to be ready to effectively implement the changes to our immigration system the President is set to announce today,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “Local governments need to make sure the changes the President announces are swiftly implemented and that local residents have access to the information and support they need to take advantage of them. This summit will help mayors exchange ideas to implement the President’s plan and work together to promote comprehensive immigration reform. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for convening this summit and making sure that New York City continues leading the way in the fair treatment of immigrants.” “The Mayor, the Council, and our City in its entirety have shown continued leadership on issues that affect both undocumented and documented immigrants,” said Chair of City Council Committee on Immigration Carlos Menchaca. “The upcoming national summit in New York City is an unprecedented move in a political climate that has been hostile toward this population. I commend Mayor de Blasio on his immediate, coordinated response to the President’s Executive Order, and look forward to working in partnership with the administration to ensure that our city remains a haven for hard-working people from all over the world.” “The executive actions that President Obama is expected to announce will kick off a series of changes that will have an impact on governance on the federal, state, and local level,” said Assembly Member and lead sponsor of the New York DREAM Act Francisco Moya. “Bringing undocumented immigrants out of the shadows and fully integrating them into American life will be our responsibility on all levels of government. Convening mayors from cities all across the United States sends a two-fold message to Washington: that we are ready to absorb the impact of the President’s executive actions and that support for comprehensive immigration reform is widespread. As a lawmaker who represents a part of New York with a large immigrant community, I am intimately aware of how deportation rips families apart and tears our social fabric. Regularizing the status of undocumented immigrants who have deep economic and familial ties to the U.S. will allow our economy, our law enforcement, and our society to function better. New York has long set the standard for immigration reform. This summit will allow us to collaborate with cities throughout the nation and light the way forward together.” “This convening sends an important message to Washington: that cities across the country are ready for immigration reform and will not wait to move forward in light of inaction in Washington,” said Immigrant Affairs Commissioner Nisha Agarwal. “When the President acts, he will not act alone. New York and our sister cities stand behind him. And we will do all that is in our power to help ensure the successful implementation of the president’s plan.” ###
11.20.2014	Washington, DC – El Congresista José E. Serrano (D-NY) aplaudió hoy el anuncio del Presidente Obama de que tomará acción ejecutiva para ayudar a arreglar el sistema de inmigración fallido del país. Las acciones ejecutivas anunciadas hoy expandirán la acción diferida, extiende las exenciones en casos de presencia ilegal, invierten en un sistema de seguridad fronteriza y deportación más ‘inteligente’, y ayuda a fortalecer la economía. “El anuncio del Presidente Obama es una gran victoria y un momento histórico para nuestra comunidad. Este es un plan audaz que ayudara a inmigrantes con lazos fuertes en nuestro país a poder salir de las sombras, que ayudará a familias a permanecer unidas, que fortalecerá nuestra frontera, y que dará un empuje a nuestra economía. Aplaudo al Presidente Obama por su valentía y liderazgo en este asunto. El Presidente Obama está actuando dentro de su autoridad legal y se une a todos los Presidentes del último medio siglo, tanto Demócratas como Republicanos, en la decisión de tomar acción ejecutiva para proteger a los inmigrantes. “Millones de personas se beneficiaran inmediatamente por este cambio de política y no tendrán que vivir con el miedo a ser deportados y separarse de sus familias gracias al audaz paso hacia adelante que ha decidido tomar el Presidente Obama. Como representante de un distrito con un gran número de inmigrantes de todas partes del mundo, están son buenas noticias para mis constituyentes y para mi comunidad. “Las acciones ejecutivas del Presidente ayudarán a fortalecer la economía y mejorar las condiciones de trabajo de todos al aumentar la cantidad de dinero en impuestos de nómina que el gobierno recogerá y ayudará a disuadir a empleadores inescrupulosos de bajar los estándares laborales al contratar a trabajadores indocumentados. Los empresarios extranjeros interesados en ayudar a crecer nuestra economía también tendrán más opciones para migrar a nuestro país. “Nuestras fronteras y comunidades también estarán más seguras que nunca. El plan del presidente dirige más recursos a la seguridad fronteriza y busca implementar una estrategia de seguridad enfocada en criminales, no familias. Los inmigrantes indocumentados también se tendrán que registrar, pasar una verificación de antecedentes, y ser responsables por acciones pasadas. Esto ayudará a promover comunidades más seguras en todos lados y asegurar que todo el mundo tenga que seguir las mismas reglas. “Todos ganamos con estas medidas. Si a los republicanos no les gustó lo que escucharon esta noche, entonces que respondan con un mejor plan. “Ahora tenemos que seguir luchando por una reforma migratoria integral en el Congreso que incluya un camino a la ciudadanía para los 11 millones de indocumentados que están presentes en el país. Los Republicanos tienen que dejar a un lado la politiquería y dejarse controlar por los elementos más extremistas de su partido, y sentarse en la mesa de negociación para finalmente pasar el proyecto de ley de inmigración que ha estado esperando por más de año y medio en el Congreso. Encuesta tras encuesta confirma que la gran mayoría del público apoya arreglar nuestro quebrantado sistema migratorio. Los Americanos quieren acciones valientes – eso precisamente fué lo que hizo el Presidente esta noche.” ###
11.20.2014	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) applauded President Obama’s announcement of executive action to help fix our nation’s broken immigration system. The President’s Immigration Accountability Executive Actions announced today will expand deferred action, increase unlawful presence waivers, invest in a smarter border security and deportation program, and help strengthen the U.S. economy. “President Obama’s announcement is a major victory and a historic moment for our community. This is an audacious plan that will help immigrants with deep ties in our country to come out of the shadows, help families stay together, strengthen our borders, and boost our economy. I applaud the President for his courage and leadership on this issue. President Obama is acting within his legal authority and joins every President for the past half century, both Democrats and Republicans, in taking executive action to protect immigrants in our country. “Millions of people’s lives will be immediately impacted by this change in policy and won’t have to live under constant fear deportation and forced separation from their families thanks to the bold step forward the President has decided to take. As the Representative of a District with a large number of immigrants from all parts of the world, this is welcome news for my constituents and for my community. “The President’s Immigration Accountability Executive Actions will immediately help strengthen the economy and improve working conditions in New York City by increasing the amount of money the government collects in payroll taxes and deterring unscrupulous employers from lowering labor standards through the hiring of undocumented workers. Foreign entrepreneurs who want to help grow our economy will also have expanded options to migrate to our country. “Our borders and communities will also be more secure than ever. The President’s plan directs more resources to border security and seeks to implement a smarter border security strategy focused on criminals, not families. Undocumented immigrants will also have to register, go through background checks, and be held accountable for past actions. This will help promote safer communities everywhere and ensure everyone plays by the same rules. “This is a win-win for everybody. If Republicans didn’t like what they heard tonight, they need to come up with a better plan in response. “Now we have to keep fighting for comprehensive immigration reform in Congress that includes a path to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants in our country. Poll after poll has demonstrated overwhelming public support for fixing our broken immigration system. Republicans need to put politics aside, stop caving to the most extreme elements of their party, and join us at the table to finally pass the bipartisan bill that has been lingering in Congress for the past year and a half. Americans want courageous action- tonight the President did just that.” ###
11.14.2014	Washington, DC – El Congresista José E. Serrano se unió hoy al Congresista Gutiérrez y otros colegas en el Congreso para urgir al Presidente Obama a que tome acción ejecutiva “grande y audaz” sobre inmigración y que cumpla su promesa de que actuaría sobre el tema pasadas las elecciones. El Congresista Serrano también exhortó al Presidente a tomar acción ejecutiva para ayudar a familias militares con estatus migratorio mixto en una conferencia de prensa llevada a cabo el Miércoles 12 de noviembre junto a miembros del Congreso, veteranos, y miembros actuales del servicio militar. “Cada día, miles de familias y negocios se ven afectados por las fallidas políticas migratorias de nuestro país. El Presidente Obama necesita tomar acción ejecutiva “grande y audaz” sobre el tema de inmigración ahora para dar alivio a las familias inmigrantes y ayudar a impulsar nuestra economía. Hemos esperado pacientemente por seis años por acción legislativa en el Congreso, y por el pasado casi año y medio los Republicanos en la Cámara se han rehusado a llevar a cabo un voto para considerar la reforma migratoria bipartidista aprobada en el Senado,” dijo el Congresista Serrano. “El tomar acción ejecutiva es parte de la autoridad legal con la que cuenta el Presidente y existe amplio precedente de su uso para proveer amparo contra la deportación. Una acción ejecutiva no es una solución completa o permanente, y no debe reemplazar la acción necesaria en el Congreso, pero nos ayudará a comenzar en este proceso. Después de esto, podemos construir sobre lo que él decida llevar a cabo con legislación en el Congreso. El Presidente Obama hizo una promesa a la comunidad inmigrante y a los que queremos ver un sistema migratorio que haga sentido en efecto. Estamos contando con su liderazgo. Señor Presidente, audaz es la palabra.” Congresista José E. Serrano se une a otros miembros del Congreso para exhortar al Presidente Obama a tomar acción ejecutiva “grande y audaz” sobre inmigración. (13 de noviembre de 2014)
11.13.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined Congressman Gutierrez and several colleagues in Congress to urge President Obama to take big and bold executive action on immigration and fulfill his promise that he would act after the elections. Congressman Serrano also urged the President to take executive action to help mixed status military families at a press event held yesterday with members of Congress, veterans, and current military service members. “Every day, thousands of families and businesses are affected by our country’s failed immigration policies. President Obama needs to take big and bold executive action on immigration now to provide immigrant families with some relief and to help boost our economy. We have patiently waited six years for legislative action in Congress and for the past year and a half Republicans in the House have refused to bring the Senate’s bipartisan immigration reform legislation to a vote,” said Congressman Serrano. “Taking executive action is within the President’s legal authority and there is ample precedent for using it to provide relief from deportation. Executive action is not a complete or permanent solution, and it shouldn’t replace Congressional action, but it will get us started in the process. We can then build on the steps he decides to take with legislation in Congress. President Obama made a promise to the immigrant community and to those who want to see a common sense immigration system in place. We are counting on his leadership. Mr. President, bold is the word.” Congressman Jose E. Serrano joins other members of Congress to urge President Obama to take big and bold executive action on immigration. (11/13/2014) ###
11.10.2014	The Bronx, NY —Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on Veterans Day, which is observed every year on November 11th. “Today we honor all the brave men and women who have risked their lives by serving our country in the armed forces. Veterans Day is a time to reflect on their sacrifices, and to thank them for their dedication to keep America safe and strong. “We also keep in our thoughts and prayers those who have lost their lives or a loved one in the line of duty. These individuals paid the greatest price for our country, and for that we owe them our utmost respect and gratitude. “For many of our veterans, their military career was the fulfillment of a dream to serve America. For others, it was an opportunity to secure a better future for themselves and their families while serving our nation. It is our duty as a nation to ensure that they have access to all the resources and support they need to successfully reintegrate back into civilian life. In these tough economic times, we need to guarantee that they have access to stable employment, quality healthcare, and affordable housing. This is the least we can do to thank them for their sacrifices. “On Veterans Day, I salute all the men and women who have valiantly served our nation.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
10.31.2014	5 Bronx Schools will Receive iPads, Macs, AppleTVs and More Products Will Help Enrich Students Learning Experience and Provide Them with Skills They Need to Succeed in the Future The Bronx, NY —Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that Apple will be donating iPads, Macs, AppleTVs, software, applications and services to five public schools in the Bronx. Apple is contributing $100 million in products and services to 114 schools across the nation through a partnership with the Obama Administration’s ConnectEd initiative. P.S. 163 Arthur A. Schomburg Elementary School, The Bilingual School, Bronx International High School, P.S. 107, and Soundview Academy for Culture & Scholarship, all located in the Bronx, will receive Apple products through the partnership. “Lack of access to high speed internet and modern technology in our schools’ classrooms are contributing to a technological and educational divide in the United States. Some students are up to speed with modern technology, while others lag behind simply because of their economic background. The digital divide has a serious impact on educational opportunities for low-income students, making it more difficult for them to learn, to do homework, or even to apply for college or a job. "The ConnectED public-private initiative will help students in the Bronx from diverse backgrounds bridge this divide and enjoy a richer educational experience at school while gaining the technological skills they need to thrive and succeed in a global economy. I applaud Apple for supporting President Obama’s ConnectEd initiative and their emphasis on giving disadvantaged students from all sorts of backgrounds access to technology,” said Congressman Serrano. The ConnectEd initiative seeks enrich students learning experience and provide them with the technological skills they need to succeed in the future by expanding access to broadband, high-speed wireless, and educational technology in schools within the next five years. The initiative’s goal is that by 2017, 99% of American students have access to broadband internet access and a richer learning experience. ConnectEd was announced in 2013 by President Obama as a part of his plan to ensure that students are prepared to use the next generation of technology and compete successfully in the global economy. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has pledged to invest $2 billion to expand access to high-speed internet for our nation’s schools and libraries. Apple, Microsoft, Verizon and numerous other private-sector companies have pledged to give more than $2 billion in technology to classrooms. As part of that pledge, Apple will be donating technological products and resources to schools where at least 96 percent of its student population qualify to participate in the free or reduced-price lunch program. The majority of students in these schools are from underrepresented communities. These schools are located in urban, suburban, and rural areas, and range in size from 80 to nearly 1,000 students. The schools will receive: an iPad for every student; a Mac and iPad for every teacher and administrator; an Apple TV for every classroom; Apple software to support creativity and productivity; appropriate third-party applications and components; and a dedicated Apple team to provide ongoing professional development and support.
10.29.2014	The Bronx, NY — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in support of the nomination of Secretary Thomas Perez to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), which Serrano is a senior member of, officially endorsed Thomas Perez for the position yesterday. President Obama is currently considering a nominee to lead the Department of Justice (DOJ) after Attorney General Eric Holder’s announcement that he will be stepping down from the position. Tom Perez, born and raised in New York to Dominican parents, would be the second Latino to serve in the position if nominated by President Obama and confirmed by the Senate. “Secretary Thomas Perez’s extensive commitment, experience, and accomplishments in matters related to justice and civil rights make him the perfect candidate to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States,” said Congressman Serrano. “Tom Perez would bring more than 25 years of public service experience to the DOJ, including distinguished work with Senator Edward Kennedy and Attorney General Janet Reno, the first and only woman to serve in the position. In recent years, he has been instrumental in the President’s efforts to protect Americans’ civil and voting rights and help working families as Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights and as Secretary of Labor. In these two positions, he has clearly demonstrated the that he is capable of leading the Department of Justice. “I have no doubt Thomas Perez would be an excellent Attorney General, who would work tirelessly for fairness and justice for all Americans. I am proud to join the CHC in their efforts to see him nominated for the position,” he added. ###
10.27.2014	Children Were Attacked While Perpetrators Called Them EBOLA. Victims Came from Senegal About a Month ago and Were Attending a Local Bronx School. Senegal Has Been declared Ebola free by the World Health Organization (WHO) The Bronx, NY — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement on two Senegalese students who were the assaulted at I.S. 318 Elementary/Intermediate School located at 1919 Prospect Avenue located in the Bronx. The attack took place this past Friday October 24, 2014. The students were beaten by their perpetrators while being called EBOLA. They were taken to the hospital with injuries. “I am deeply saddened to hear of the acts of violence that were recently committed on two young boys from Senegal here in the Bronx. This is perfect example of how, as the fear of Ebola spreads, it can bring out the worst people and the impact that stigma is having on the African community. My deepest sympathies go out to the affected family. My thoughts and prayers are with them during this difficult time. “I also stand in support of the Senegalese Association (ASA) and African Advisory Committee (AAC) in denouncing this heinous act. This type of behavior has no place in our schools, and we cannot allow the ebola epidemic to stigmatize a single population. This is not who we are as a community and as a nation, and we all need to contribute to put an end to the fear and stigma around the ebola epidemic. Ebola is not a West African problem, or even an African problem, it is a global health concern. Instead of feeding into the fear and discriminating against others, we need to come together in solidarity as we grapple with this terrible disease.” ###
10.23.2014	Bronx, NY – On Friday October 17, 2014, Congressman Serrano helped inaugurate the Center for Sustainable Energy’s new home at the Bronx Community College Center’s Snow Hall. The event took place at the end of the 2nd Annual Sustainable Energy & Design Conference, an annual symposium that brings together leaders in the field of sustainable energy and highlights projects in renewable energy and urban infrastructure that involve the Center. For more information about the Conference, click HERE . Congressman Serrano helped secure nearly $5 million in funding for the creation and development of the Center for Sustainable Energy. A significant portion of these funds were used for the construction of the Center’s new facilities at BCC’s “Snow Hall”. For more information about the Center for Sustainable Energy, click HERE. “It was an honor to join staff and students from the Center for Sustainable Energy to inaugurate its new state-of-the-art facilities. This unique initiative is not only producing innovative academic work in the renewable energy field here in the Bronx, it is also helping position the Bronx and New York City to take advantage of future economic opportunities in the green energy sector. I am happy that I was able to facilitate the creation of this important research and educational Center by helping secure funding in Congress and thrilled to see it reach this important moment,” said Congressman Serrano. “Congressman Serrano had the vision to create the Center for Sustainable Energy. It is an honor to carry the torch into a new era where we are building on the success of the past while laying the groundwork for new roads towards a sustainable future. The Center is working to expand the Solar Energy workforce-training program to continue to meet the needs of industry. While doing this, the Center for Sustainable Energy is building an analytical lab focused around alternative fuels and bio-based materials. Moving forward the Center will serve as a CUNY research hub and a resource for industry and start-ups. None of this could have happened without the support of Congressman Serrano,” said Aaron Socha, Director of the Bronx Community College Center for Sustainable Energy. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY15, the Bronx) cuts the ribbon to officially inaugurate the Center for Sustainable Energy’s new home at Bronx Community College’s Snow Hall. The construction of the new facilities was possible thanks to Congressman Serrano’s efforts to secure nearly $5 million in funding for the Center for Sustainable Energy. (10/17/2014) Faculty, students and other guests at the inauguration of the Center for Sustainable Energy’s new location at Bronx Community College’s Snow Hall. Photo courtesy of Bronx Community College. (10/17/2014 2nd Annual Sustainable Energy & Design Conference participants gather at the end of the conference for a picture at the Center for Sustainable Energy’s new facilities. Photo courtesy of Bronx Community College. (10/17/2014) ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
10.17.2014	Congressmen Helped Secure $4.5 million in Funding, Nearly 50% of Funds Necessary to Bring More than $9 million Project to Completion Bronx, NY – Today, Congressmen José E. Serrano (D- NY15, the Bronx) and Joseph Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx) applauded the completion of the Soundview Park Salt Marsh Restoration Project in the Bronx, which was partly made possible thanks to their efforts in Congress to secure federal funds by earmarking $4.5 million from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Soundview Park is a 205 acre park located in the mouth of the Bronx River built on what used to be a landfill. The goal of the waterfront restoration project was to revive the wetlands, upland forest and meadows nearby in the southern part of the park. The restored aquatic ecosystem will provide a healthy habitat for plants and native animals, improve water quality, and serve as an area for public recreation. The project completion was announced yesterday by NYC Parks & Recreation. “During my years of service in Congress, I have always made it a priority to protect the environment and fight for environmental justice in the Bronx. Thanks to this project, Bronx residents will now live in a cleaner and healthier environment, and be able to enjoy nature in an urban environment,” said Congressman Serrano (D-NY15, the Bronx). “I am incredibly proud of having helped make this beautiful and important project a reality by helping secure funding for its realization. This is a fine example of what can be achieved when federal, state and local agencies join efforts, and I applaud the Army Corps of Engineers and NYC Parks for successfully bringing it to completion. Since the project’s groundbreaking in 2011, all of us who helped launch it have been looking forward to this moment.” “The revitalization of Soundview Park is a transformative investment for the people of the Bronx and the health of our ecosystem,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “I was proud to join Congressman Serrano in steering federal dollars to the borough to make this project a reality and I thank the Army Corps of Engineers and the NYC Department of Parks for seeing it through. I am thrilled to have been a part of this collaborative effort to restore the ‘Gateway to the Bronx River’ to its natural beauty, protect one of our great ecological resources and help build a better Bronx for all to enjoy.” Financed through a federal, state, and local agencies cost-sharing partnership, the Soundview Park waterfront project cost a total of more than $9 million. In addition to the $4.5 million obtained by Serrano and Crowley, the project was financed through 1) a $2.19 million water quality improvement grant awarded through the New York State Department of State Clear Water/Clear Air Bond Act, 2) $2.19 million awarded in connection with the construction of the Croton Water Filtration Facility through the NYC Department of Environmental Protection and the Municipal Water Finance Authority, and 3) $1 million in mitigation funding provided awarded by the NYC Department of Sanitation. ###
10.16.2014	The Bronx, NY — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on World Food Day: “World Food Day serves as a reminder of the food insecurity that communities in our nation and around the world are experiencing. Here in the United States, major cuts to anti-hunger and nutrition programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), have resulted in more people going without food. “SNAP is a critical program that 47 million Americans rely on. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, approximately two-thirds of its recipients are children, elderly, or disabled. Taking in consideration this data, it is baffling and disappointing to see House Republicans continuously working to cut billions of dollars from SNAP. Their efforts to cut funding for this important program is clear indication that they prefer to put partisan ideology before the welfare of millions of Americans. “Globally, millions of people go to bed hungry every night. Malnutrition and widespread food insecurity are the leading causes of child deaths around the world. No one should ever have to suffer through the pain of hunger, especially in this day and age when we have so many resources and have made so many technological advances. “Every day, I am moved by the individuals and organizations that work to combat this issue in my district and abroad. We must keep on supporting the efforts of food pantries, soup kitchens, and anti-hunger organizations fighting to end food hardship. I will continue to stand against heartless policy actions that leave our most vulnerable populations hungry.” ###
10.14.2014	New York City Council Cultural Affairs Committee Held Hearing on Resolution to Encourage Creation of the Smithsonian American Latino Museum and Designation of the Arts and Industries Building as its Future Location Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Jose E. Serrano (D-NY) testified before the New York City Council Committee on Cultural Affairs, Libraries, and International Intergroup Relations in support of establishing the Smithsonian National American Latino Museum and passing key legislation in Congress (H.R. 1217in the House of Representatives and S. 568 in the U.S. Senate) to designate the Arts and Industries Building in Washington, DC as the future site of the museum. The Committee held a hearing on Resolution 405-2014. The resolutions calls upon Congress to pass and the President to sign H.R. 1217 and S. 568 to establish the Smithsonian American Latino Museum and designate the Arts and Industries Building as its future location in Washington, D.C. Congressman Serrano’s testimony included remarks on the contributions of Latinos and Latinas to the country, the lack of Latino representation in the Smithsonian Institutions, and the need to include the contributions of Latinos in the U.S. territories. Estuardo Rodriguez, Executive Director of Friends of Friends of the National Museum of the American Latino; Cid Wilson, Chair of the Board of Friends of the National Museum of the American Latino; Juan Cartagena, President and General Counsel of Latino Justice PRLDEF; and Jorge Daniel Veneciano, Executive Director of El Muse del Barrio . “Latinos and Latinas have been an integral part of the United States for over 200 years. Due to this undeniable fact, it is time that we as a nation recognize the importance of this community by constructing a museum on the National Mall. With this museum, we will be addressing the underrepresentation of American Latino art and culture in the Smithsonian Institution. And for it to be a true Latino Museum, it must also include the contributions of Latinos in the territories, including Puerto Rico,” said Congressman Serrano. Congressman Serrano’s Testimony as Prepared for Delivery: STATEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN JOSÉ E. SERRANO (D-NY) ON RES. NO. 405 - RESOLUTION CALLING UPON CONGRESS TO PASS AND THE PRESIDENT TO SIGN H.R.1217 AND S. 568 TO ESTABLISH THE SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN LATINO AND DESIGNATE THE ARTS AND INDUSTRIES BUILDING AS ITS FUTURE LOCATION IN WASHINGTON, D.C. OCTOBER 14, 2014 Thank you for the opportunity to testify before the New York City Committee on Cultural Affairs on passing legislation to designate the Arts and Industries Building as the future site for the Smithsonian National Museum for the American Latino. I deeply appreciate that this Committee is taking the time to explore this issue in greater depth as it is a subject that I truly care about. I have been a longtime supporter of establishing the Smithsonian National Museum for the American Latino and I am well aware of the legislative challenges it currently faces in Congress. I applaud the Friends of the National Museum of the American Latino for championing this issue. I am glad to be a part of such a historic effort to finally grant a place in our Nation’s capital to honor the tremendous contributions of Latino men and women to our country. Latinos and Latinas have been an integral part of the United States for over 200 years. Although this community was quite small in the earliest days of our nation, it has grown dramatically and now stands as the largest minority group in the United States. Due to this undeniable fact, it is time that we as a nation recognize the importance of this community by constructing a museum on the National Mall. With this museum, we will be addressing the underrepresentation of American Latino art and culture in the Smithsonian Institution. This museum can teach the American people about the great contributions that Latinos have given our country. From the great Roberto Clemente in baseball, to the talented Jenni Rivera in music, to Justice Sonia Sotomayor in the Supreme Court, the United States has been deeply enriched by the Latino community. The United States is better, stronger, and more diverse because we are a nation of immigrants—a nation of people from around the world who contribute each day to our culture and history. And for it to be a true Latino Museum, it must also include the contributions of Latinos in the territories, including Puerto Rico. Each year millions of people visit Washington, D.C. to learn about our government, our history, and our culture. Establishing the American Latino Museum will not only teach our fellow citizens about the importance of the Latino culture, but will also show the world who we are as a nation—a nation enriched by cultures from around the world. I commend this Committee for bringing attention to this issue by starting a public discussion in New York City. As a New Yorker, I am particularly pleased that so many members of the City Council have taken a keen interest in the American Latino Museum. You can continue counting on my utmost support for the Museum and I am confident that together we can and will establish this museum for all Americans. Again, thank you for giving me the opportunity to testify in support of designating the Arts and Industries Building as the future location for the American Latino Museum on the National Mall. ###
10.10.2014	65,000 Hard-Working Americans in his District Would Benefit from Minimum Wage Increase Washington, DC – On National Minimum Wage Day, Congressman Serrano (D-NY) is calling for a minimum wage increase from $7.25 for $10.10 per hour. According to a district-by-district study recently released by OXFAM, a minimum wage increase would benefit more than 25 million workers nationwide, including more than a million in New York and 65,000 in Serrano’s congressional district (NY-15). OXFAM’s study and data can be accessed HERE. Congressman Serrano is urging Republicans in the House to stop blocking efforts to raise the minimum wage and to join Democrats in passing the Fair Minimum Wage Act (H.R. 1010). This bill would raise the minimum wage to $10.10 and index it to inflation. Despite having overwhelming support from the American people, Republicans have voted to block the bill eight times in the past two years. Adjusted for inflation, the minimum wage is currently 30 percent less than it was in 1968, almost 50 years ago. “All across America, millions of minimum wage workers are working hard, sometimes multiple jobs, but they still struggle to make ends meet. American workers need and deserve a pay raise. Increasing the minimum wage to $10.10 per hour will help them better provide for themselves and their families, strengthen our communities, and boost our national economy,” said Congressman Serrano. “The overwhelming majority of the American people—Democrats and Republicans alike—understand that this is the right thing to do for our families and for our economy. And yet in the past two years, Republicans have consistently blocked legislation to raise the minimum wage. We need to pass this common sense legislation. Republicans need to come to the table and help Democrats pass the Fair Minimum Wage Act (H.R. 1010). ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
10.09.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) received a 100% score from the Human Rights Campaign on their Congressional Scorecard for the 113th Congress. Serrano received the perfect score for his voting record in support of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) equality legislation. More details on the Human Rights Campaign 113th Congressional Scorecard can be accessed HERE. “It is an honor to once again be recognized by the Human Rights Campaign with a perfect score on their Congressional scorecard,” said Congressman Serrano. “We have been able to advance historic legislation for the LGBT community during the 113th Congress, and I am proud to be a part of these efforts by supporting every single legislation that seeks to expand LGBT equality. Unfortunately, many of these bills have not been able to move further in Congress and become laws mainly due to Republican obstruction. The scorecard clearly reflects this reality—a majority of Democrats in both chambers received a perfect score, while only two Republicans did.” “The scorecard also took into consideration members’ support for marriage equality, which I support and strongly believe should be recognized at the federal level. Everyone in America should be free to marry the person they love regardless of where they live. Congress needs to come together to pass the Respect for Marriage Act and fully repeal the Defense of Marriage Act. That is the only way we will be able to guarantee that LGBT couples can marry and be recognized in every state. “We have made great advances on this issue over the years, but we still have a long way to go. We can’t give up until all LGBT Americans’ constitutional and civil rights are respected under U.S. federal law. Love is love, and the gay community should not be discriminated against or prevented from pursuing their happiness through marriage if they so choose. I applaud the work of the Human Rights Campaign in support of gay rights and I look forward to continue supporting LGBT equality in Congress,” Serrano added. ###
10.06.2014	Washington, DC– Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) today released the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court decision to let stand circuit court rulings in favor of marriage equality five states: Indiana, Oklahoma, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin. The decision will immediately increase the number of states where gay marriage is legal from 19 to 24, along with the District of Columbia. In addition, several other states with same sex marriage bans in the relevant circuits will need to implement the rulings to provide marriage equality as well. “Today is a great day for the LGBT community nationwide and for the progress of our nation. Here in New York, the LGBT community already has the right to marry, but all throughout the nation millions of LGBT couples are still suffering the emotional, legal, and financial effects of not being able to marry the person they love. With today’s Supreme Court decision to decline review of these challenges to lower court decisions requiring marriage equality, same-sex marriage will be legal in almost half the states in our nation, bringing us one step closer to living in a nation where discriminatory marriage laws are a thing of the past. We have come a long way on this issue over the years, but we can’t give up until all LGBT Americans’ constitutional and civil rights are respected under U.S. federal law. Congress must come together to pass the Respect for Marriage Act and fully repeal the Defense of Marriage Act to guarantee that all families are fully recognized under the law,” said Congressman Serrano. ###
09.30.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Jose E. Serrano (D-NY) today applauded Mayor de Blasio’s Executive Order to expand New York City’s Fair Wages for New Yorkers Act and raise the living wage from $11.90 to $13.13 per hour for workers who don’t receive benefits, and from $10.30 to $11.50 for workers who do receive benefits. Mayor de Blasio announced the initiative today in the Bronx with U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez. Under the new mandate, commercial tenants that receive more than $1 million in City subsidies will now be covered by Living Wage provision, increasing the number of workers who qualify from 1,200 to 18,000. According to City estimates, more than 4,000 of the workers who will benefit from the law over the next five years earn close to the state’s minimum wage of $8 an hour and will see an annual income increase of $10,000 – a pay increase from $16,640 to $27,310. Today’s announcement is one of the steps Mayor de Blasio has taken to address income inequality in the City. “With today’s announcement, Mayor de Blasio has once again positioned New York City at the forefront of national efforts to address income disparity, provide workers with more economic opportunities, and help our most vulnerable populations. This is welcome news for Bronx workers and hard working families who are having trouble making ends meet. Thousands of our workers will see an automatic increase in their income of up to $10,000 a year to provide for their families and to improve their quality of life. This, in turn, will boost our local economy and help create economic prosperity for everyone. I applaud Mayor De Blasio’s efforts to raise the standard of living for the families of NYC and I look forward to working with him to address income inequality and bring economic prosperity to everyone in the City.” For more information about Mayor de Blasio’s Executive Order to expand and increase New York City’s Living Wage today click HERE. ###
09.30.2014	Order raises City’s living wage immediately to $13.13 per hour, expected to exceed $15 by 2019 Lowest-wage workers will see pay increase from $16,640 to $27,310 per year Workers at retailers and fast-food chains at City-backed projects will now earn a living wage NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio today signed an executive order enacting a sweeping expansion of New York City’s Fair Wages for New Yorkers Act. Effective immediately, commercial tenants at projects that receive more than $1 million in City subsidy will be covered by Living Wage provisions, and the Living Wage itself will be raised to from $11.90 to $13.13 per hour—likely reaching $15.22 per hour by 2019. Increasing and expanding the Living Wage law is part of a comprehensive approach the de Blasio administration has undertaken to tackle income inequality, including expanding paid sick leave to a half-million more workers, creating new workforce development programs that help workers attain skills to compete for good-paying jobs, and securing local control of the minimum wage from Albany. The new living wage matches the contours of a higher local minimum wage that a broad coalition is working to secure the authority from Albany to implement next year. “We are raising the floor for working families struggling to get by. With this order, thousands of breadwinners working at projects that will be supported by taxpayers will earn higher wages and be more likely to receive the kind of benefits critical to supporting a family. And this is just one of many steps we’re taking on this front. From today’s executive order to the expansion of paid sick leave to our overhaul of workforce development, we are working to lift up working people and confront inequality,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for raising wages for thousands of New Yorkers who are working hard every day to make ends meet,” said US Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez. Since President Obama first called on Congress to raise the national minimum wage, 13 states, Washington, D.C., Seattle, San Diego and other cities have acted to boost wages for those at the bottom of the income ladder. Too many low-wage workers around the country face difficult choices every day: Do we buy a gallon of milk or a gallon of gas? Do we pay the utility bill this month or buy school supplies? Raising the minimum wage would put more money in their pockets, giving them a little more breathing room and peace of mind.” “Mayor de Blasio is taking a strong and significant step by increasing wages for workers on public projects—a law that ensures government contractors are paid similar wages to those earned in the private sector,” said Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. “The Mayor is also sending a clear signal to Albany: it’s long past time for all of our workers to receive a decent, living wage. Workers in our state are under siege, as my office has seen time and again in cases of workers cheated out of the wages they deserve. The least we can do is guarantee a decent wage, and ensure that no one who works 40 hours a week has to live in poverty.” “The Assembly Democratic Majority has long championed an increase in the minimum wage as part of the ladder to the middle class for tens of thousands of New Yorkers. Mayor de Blasio has been a strong partner in this effort, and his decision to expand and increase New York City's living wage is welcome news. In taking this action, Mayor de Blasio recognizes that a thriving workforce and a sustainable, innovative economy go hand in hand. No one who works full time should have to live in poverty, and in the Assembly we are committed to ensuring that all New Yorkers and their families are able to thrive,” said Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. “The City Council has been proud to be out front in the fight for a living wage and today builds on Council Members’ tireless work. By raising wages for thousands of New Yorkers, this executive order will go a long way towards lifting families and changing trajectories. Whether it’s advocating for local control of the minimum wage or fighting for hard working New Yorkers, this Council is dedicated towards giving all New Yorkers a chance,” said Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito. “I commend Mayor de Blasio on signing today’s Living Wage order, expanding the Fair Wages for New York Act to include jobs in projects that receive over $1 million in city subsidy. Today’s executive order will guarantee living wages to previously exempt workers, such as employees of commercial tenants. Additionally, it will raise the hourly wage for workers who are not eligible to receive employee benefits. These actions go far to move us towards a more economically equitable society, and I look forward to working with the administration to achieve living wage throughout New York City,” said Public Advocate Letitia James. While it is difficult to make projections related to economic development, based on past patterns the City estimates the executive order will expand the reach of living wage provisions to 70 percent of all jobs at firms supported by City agencies. The analysis indicates living wage requirements would impact roughly 18,000 jobs over the next five years, compared to 1,200 under the current law. Approximately 4,100 jobs covered under the new standards would be held by employees in retail and fast-food businesses that traditionally pay close to minimum wage. For workers earning the state’s minimum wage of $8 per hour, a Living Wage would increase their gross income from $16,640 to $27,310 per year. The Living Wage executive order eliminates an exemption for future development at Hudson Yards, bringing thousands of additional jobs under living wage provisions in the years ahead. The order will not pertain to specific types of City-backed housing developments with high levels of affordability, small businesses with gross income under $3 million, and manufacturers, for which agencies will instead pursue skill-building and upward mobility on the career ladder in exchange for City support. The Living Wage will be set at $13.13 without benefits, or $11.50 per hour with benefits, and will be adjusted each year to match changes in the Consumer Price Index. It previously stood at $10.30 with benefits and $11.90 without. The Living Wage will be enforced by the Department of Consumer Affairs. “New York City has been and should always be a nationwide leader in civic innovation, particularly when it comes to the welfare of its residents. Few things are more fundamental to advancing that welfare than helping workers struggling to support their families. Today, Mayor de Blasio has reaffirmed his commitment to civic innovation and our residents’ welfare by raising the living wage and furthering its reach to thousands more workers. This is a measure that recognizes the cost of living challenges that New Yorkers face and builds a meaningful bridge over the inequality gap we have sought to close across Brooklyn and the rest of the five borough,” said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “Projects that benefit from city subsidies should pay their workers in a way that helps them provide for themselves and their families,” said Manhattan Borough President Gale A. Brewer. “That way, taxpayer dollars can help create a ‘virtuous circle’ that builds worthy projects and helps those who build or work in those projects, too. Mayor de Blasio is to be congratulated for keeping a promise and keeping faith with working families.” “Strengthening our city’s living wage not only provides stability and financial security to thousands of workers and their families but it also spurs our local economic growth,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “As a long-time sponsor of legislation to raise the federal minimum wage, I am pleased the Mayor agrees that taking this step will help to grow our middle class by creating more good-paying jobs.” “Mayor de Blasio is to be highly commended for his commitment to the working women and men of New York City. For many Americans, though employed and working full-time, their wages and benefits are inadequate to support a family and have not kept pace with the cost of living. As a nation, we have the ability to choose a new direction - to develop the talents of our workers, to stimulate the economy, and to insist on a living wage for every worker in the United States. Today, New York City has become a leader in honoring the labor of our workers and expanding opportunity,” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. “It’s unthinkable that someone working full time would struggle to make ends meet or even live in poverty. Sadly, that's a reality for far too many minimum wage workers. Mayor de Blasio recognizes the need for hard working New Yorkers to support themselves and their families. He has taken a leading role in the debate for fair, living wages by signing an executive order that would ensure more New Yorkers have the opportunity to thrive, not simply survive,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “Strengthening the city’s living wage law is an important step to help lift more people into the middle class,” said Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for taking this action today.” “New Yorkers, like all Americans, deserve an honest wage for an honest day’s work. With this Executive Order, New Yorkers will be one step closer to earning a livable wage, one that factors in the higher costs of living New Yorkers experience. I commend this action by Mayor Bill de Blasio. It will make a difference for millions of people in New York, who work hard and deserve to be compensated fairly,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. “By raising the living wage for workers on all contracts that receive more than $1 million in New York City funds, Mayor de Blasio has shown once again that he is a bold leader and is committed to a fairer future for all New Yorkers,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “While our largest corporations have continued to grow to record levels, workers’ wages have not been in line with productivity increases in our economy over the past 35 years. Unfortunately, many working families continue to struggle to get by on remarkably low wages. The current workers' wage is simply not enough to live on. Today’s executive order by Mayor de Blasio is a strong step in the right direction to do more to combat poverty and expand opportunity throughout our great city.” “I’m proud that our Mayor is leading the nation in taking bold executive actions to give a pay raise to workers who deserve and need it to survive. In America, the land of opportunity, no one who works full time should be struggling to raise a family. Ensuring a living wage is not just about providing fair compensation, but also preserving justice and dignity for working families. In Congress, I will keep fighting to pass legislation that would increase the federal minimum wage because it is key to closing the opportunity gap and building an economy that works for everyone,” said Congressman Charles Rangel. “This is welcome news for Bronx residents and I applaud Mayor De Blasio’s efforts to raise the standard of living for many hard working families who need to make ends meet. Thanks to this initiative, thousands of families in New York, including many in my congressional district, will have access to up to an additional $10,000 in additional financial resources each year. Mayor De Blasio has taken an important step close the gap between the rich and the poor in our city and provide our families with more economic opportunities,” said Congressman Serrano. “New Yorkers who are working on important projects in our local communities deserve a decent, fair, livable wage. Ensuring that contractors who do business with the City meet this standard will benefit New York’s working families,” said Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez. “Mayor de Blasio’s expansion of the living wage is a big step forward for thousands of hardworking New Yorkers. Working people in our city deserve to be paid fairly, and an honest day's work should allow people to afford to live with dignity. I look forward to working with Mayor de Blasio to expand on the progress he is making on this issue by securing a real increase in the minimum wage statewide,” said State Senator Michael Gianaris. “I strongly commend Mayor de Blasio for his leadership in signing the executive order to significantly raise New York City’s living wage law from $11.90 to $13.13. This will help thousands of working families across the city work their way out of poverty, as well as increase their spending power and provide a boost to the local economy. Albany should heed the Mayor’s call and permit New York City to set its own minimum wage at the same amount to help even more struggling families,” said State Senator Brad Hoylman. “Mayor de Blasio’s Executive Order expanding the living wage is a critical step toward ensuring that New York City’s middle class continues to grow and thrive,” said Senator Jose Peralta. “I applaud the Mayor for his leadership on this critical issue and I am proud that New York City will continue to be the national leader on wage justice. Now it’s time for the state legislature to empower municipalities to raise their local wage and reflect the cost of living in the city,” said State Senator Jose Peralta. “I commend Mayor de Blasio for his continued focus on reversing the tide of income inequality in our City; the logical and necessary expansion of our Living Wage Law executed today is another step in our shared climb up the ladder of economic fairness and equality. I share the Mayor’s vision that this intermediate step be swiftly complemented by the passage of state legislation authorizing localities, including New York City, to raise the minimum wage in our respective regions,” said State Senator Bill Perkins. “Many thanks to Mayor de Blasio for taking action and expanding New York City’s living wage law. This is a huge step in assuring a fair living wage for all New Yorkers and reducing the wide gap of income inequality in this city. I look forward to continuing to work together with the Mayor to ensure that New York City has the ability to raise its own wage for all workers and secure a sustainable living wage for all New Yorkers,” said State Senator Jose M. Serrano. “Hard work and a full time job should not equal poverty, but in New York City, that is the reality for too many workers,” said State Senator Daniel Squadron. “This April, when I proposed a $15 minimum wage for big businesses, many thought it was pie in the sky. Now, thanks to Mayor de Blasio, with the support of extraordinary advocates in labor and beyond, by 2019 thousands of hard working New Yorkers will be paid $15 an hour. I applaud the Mayor’s executive order and look forward to continuing the momentum in the state for a fair wage for a fair day’s work.” “Today, thanks to Mayor de Blasio’s leadership, New York City takes another big step forward in the fight against crippling income inequality. It’s simply good policy to require companies that benefit from public funds to pay their employees a living wage, and I applaud the Mayor for taking an action that will benefit thousands of working-class families. I am a strong supporter of raising the minimum wage in New York State and allowing local municipalities raise it further as they see fit, and I look forward to working with my colleagues next session to give New York City the freedom to establish a minimum wage that reflects the city’s higher cost of living,” said Assembly Member Jeffery Dinowitz. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio and his executive order on requiring a living wage. The Mayor is taking a giant step forward in making NYC fairer for hard working New Yorkers,” said Assembly Member Deborah Glick. “This is a great day for countless New Yorkers who toil in taxing jobs every day, but unfortunately can’t make ends meet,” said Assembly Member Carl Heastie. “Paying hard workers a decent living wage is a moral imperative, one that I enthusiastically support." “It’s great that Mayor de Blasio is dramatically increasing the number of workers covered by the living wage on city-subsidized work and raising the wage level. With the Mayor's crucial support, I look forward to enacting our bill in Albany to let the City and other high-cost localities adopt a $13.13 minimum for all workers, not just those on city-funded projects, rising to $15.00 and beyond through automatic cost of living adjustments,” said Assembly Member Brian Kavanagh. “If a business is receiving any form of financial assistance from NYC government, then there should certainly be an even higher minimum wage for their employees. In a city as expensive as NYC, we must do everything we can to ensure that people are receiving a living wage. A higher minimum wage helps everyone, from workers to businesses. Putting more money into the pockets of those most likely to spend it increases demand for products, and in turn, creates more jobs. Earlier this year I voted to expedite the increase of the minimum wage across the state and I applaud Mayor de Blasio for make this a priority in NYC,” said Assembly Member Joseph Lentol. “Mayor de Blasio’s bold move to expand and improve New York City's living wage law is exactly what hardworking families need and I applaud him for it,” said Assemblywoman Marge Markey. “For far too long, workers have seen their wages fail to keep up with the rising cost of living. That's left families struggling to make ends meet and forced them to make nearly impossible decisions. I'll continue my efforts in Albany to support Mayor de Blasio in helping workers get ahead.” “The Living Wage Executive Order ensures that tenants, subtenants, and building/construction workers do their part in the fight to protect New York City's workers since these projects are benefitting from New York City subsidies. I want to thank Mayor de Blasio for his leadership on this important issue. I will continue to fight for all workers and I look forward to the day when a living wage is a reality for all employees in the entire state,” said Assembly Member Michael Miller. “I commend Mayor Bill de Blasio for taking a leadership role in the fight for fair wages. Expanding a living wage to more New Yorkers is not only ethical, it's economical. More people earning a living wage means more people who can enter the middle class and more people who can afford to spend in our local economy. It’s only right that our taxpayer dollars are used to support businesses that provide sustainable wages; our city is strengthened when more workers are able to earn a living wage. Mayor Bill de Blasio’s executive order is a direct and common-sense way to help struggling working New Yorkers get back on solid ground. No one in 21st Century New York should have to live on poverty wages. Mayor de Blasio’s executive order is a critical step towards combating substandard wages,” said Assembly Member Francisco P. Moya. “I commend Mayor de Blasio for standing up for the working people of New York City and expanding the Living Wage law, and fully support the continued expansion of the law,” said Assembly Member N. Nick Perry. “This is another crucial step in decreasing the vast income inequality we see throughout our great city, and a big win for working families who were previously at the mercy of employers who were more concerned with making outrageous profits than paying their workers a living wage.” “Implementing a real living wage will help hard working New Yorkers and their families pull themselves out of poverty and on the path to the middle class,” said Assembly Member Linda B. Rosenthal. “This move will represent real change for thousands of people and is one of the most important steps that we can take if we are serious about tackling crippling income inequality, but we need more. I will continue to support efforts to provide New York City with the power to set its own minimum wage.” “Under the leadership of Mayor de Blasio, New York City has been at the forefront of protecting workers from unfair treatment. From paid sick leave to this much needed expansion of the living wage law New York City is becoming a friendlier place for people to live and work. I commend Mayor de Blasio for his commitment to workers and look forward to seeing more policies like this that make this city a better place for all New Yorkers,” said Assembly Member Luis Sepúlveda. “Today’s expansion of those covered under the cites living wage law removes forever the notion that New York is a city that cares only for the rich and powerful, I applaud the Mayors decision to advance this legislation and thank him for his leadership on this important issue,” said Council Member Fernando Cabrera. “This powerfully resounding action truly gets to the heart of repairing the deeply rooted problem of inequality in our city,” said Council Member Margaret Chin. “While we certainly have a long way to go, this is a massive step forward. I sincerely applaud Mayor de Blasio for once again showing his unwavering commitment to empowering working families and giving every New Yorker a chance to make it.” “I’m proud to stand with Mayor de Blasio in celebrating the New York City Living Wage Executive Order. Today, there are too many New Yorkers who work hard and faithfully and have too little to show for it. It’s right to take a stand against city funds being used to subsidize poverty wages and this order does just that. It is also finely calibrated to avoid harming other important public goals, like growing small construction businesses and encouraging hiring from challenged groups. This is real, meaningful progress and on behalf of my constituents, I celebrate it,” said Council Member Robert E. Cornegy. “As the cost of living in New York City continues to outpace the increase in wages and salaries, thousands of families are struggling to make ends meet,” said Council Member Laurie A. Cumbo. “Mayor de Blasio’s executive order to increase the living wage is a major step forward for New Yorkers. This is a major win, particularly for households across this city that are led by women who are the sole breadwinner with one or more jobs to meet their financial obligations. I hope that our colleagues in Albany will take similar action to further support the economic development of our state.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for signing the Living Wage Executive Order. The Living Wage EO underscores the Mayor's firm and unwavering commitment to working men and women across our city. As a result of this action, thousands of workers who would not have received the living wage will now attain it over the next few years,” said Council Member Mathieu Eugene. “I want to thank Mayor de Blasio for today’s executive order on expanding living wage which will benefit thousands of New Yorkers. I am particularly pleased that this order will cover the Hudson Yards development in my district. New York, once again, under Mayor de Blasio is leading the way nationally on fighting income inequality and today’s executive order continues this important fight,” said Council Member Corey Johnson. “$8.00 an hour is not a living wage. $13.13 is. With the Mayor’s order, thousands more New Yorkers will be able to live lives of greater choice and opportunity,” said Council Member Ben Kallos. "I applaud Mayor de Blasio for the living wage executive order and look forward to all New Yorkers having access to a living wage.” “Mayors de Blasio’s executive order to raise the city’s living wage is a testament to helping the average New Yorker get a leg up in this economy; and to strengthening our vanishing middle class. I commend Mayor de Blasio for recognizing the plight of the everyday New Yorkers by signing this executive order, which is the beginning of establishing a real and true living wage in our city. Thank you Mr. Mayor,” said City Council Member Andy King. “This executive order will help so many people; this is a wonderful thing for all New Yorkers,” said Council Member Karen Koslowitz. “As an early sponsor of the original Living Wage Bill (Intro 251/2010) that covered fast-food and retail tenants of subsidized projects and indexed the wage for inflation, I’m very pleased to see this Executive Order restore those important elements. When we provide public subsidies to private businesses to create jobs, we simply can't allow poverty wages. Now its Albany's turn: give us the power to raise New York City’s minimum wage, so we can help hundreds of thousands of hard-working New Yorkers earn enough to get by,” said Council Member Brad Lander. “Expanding the living wage will help working New Yorkers and make for a fairer, more equitable New York City. Workers deserve a living wage and this expansion will help thousands of additional New Yorkers earn the pay they deserve. Thanks to Mayor de Blasio for making living wages a priority for New York City,” said Council Member Stephen Levin. “When it costs nearly twice as much to raise a family in New York City than in Buffalo, it’s clear that the City needs to be able to set its own minimum wage. Working families are put in the unfair situation of having to worry about whether they can scrape together enough money for their monthly rent or afford basic necessities like a winter jacket for their kids or healthy meals. As we wait for Albany to take action on this proposal, I congratulate Mayor de Blasio for extending the City's living wage to an additional 18,000 families, which could amount to an extra $100 per week in their paychecks,” said Council Member Mark Levine. “I am very gratified and grateful that the Mayor is signing this act. This is very important for working New Yorkers and I appreciate what the Mayor is doing,” said Council Member Alan Maisel. “I enthusiastically support Mayor de Blasio’s executive order increasing the living wage, and expanding the workers covered under the living wage requirements for city-subsidized projects. The living wage bill, originally enacted when I was chair of the Council's Contracts committee, was a first step toward ensuring that all New Yorkers working on City-subsidized projects are paid a living wage. This executive order expands our city's commitment to fair wage projects. The order will significantly improve the lives of the New Yorkers who need it most. It will help many of our city’s lowest-paid workers rise above poverty to provide better lives for themselves and their families. This order sends a clear message that City funds will be used only in projects in which the workers are paid a decent wage. It is a significant and necessary change that makes our city better and reaffirms the Mayor's commitment to a fair and equitable New York,” said Council Member Darlene Mealy. “We stand firmly behind the Administration in this expansion of living wages for New Yorkers. This is another example of the local government’s commitment to improving the quality of life for working families in the City. I look forward to working towards its implementation and making sure proper enforcement is carried out,” said Council Member I. Daneek Miller. “Mayor de Blasio’s Executive Order is a much needed step in the right direction. By expanding the living wage mandate to include retail workers in subsidized developments, the city will help ensure that economic development paid for with our tax dollars helps lift hard working New Yorkers out of poverty,” said Council Member Antonio Reynoso. “The current minimum wage in New York City is simply not enough," said Council Member Donovan Richards. "The Living Wage Executive Order acknowledges that too many hardworking families continue to struggle at poverty level wages while employed full time. I applaud Mayor de Blasio’s leadership in this effort to increase and expand the scope of the current legislation, and improve the quality of life for those most vulnerable,” said Council Member Donovan Richards. “I fully support Mayor de Blasio's executive order, which addresses income inequality by giving a well-deserved raise to many New Yorkers who are living near or below the poverty line,” said Councilmember Debi Rose. “Raising the city's living wage -- and expanding it to include thousands more workers -- will spur economic activity and growth while lifting working families out of poverty. I have advocated for this since I was elected, and I am pleased to see it come to fruition.” “Increasing wages for workers on city-subsidized projects ensures public dollars are invested in jobs that bring stability to families across all boroughs and reduces poverty in every community,” said Council Member Helen Rosenthal. “Mayor de Blasio’s decision to increase the living wage requirement through executive order speaks to his unwavering commitment to addressing income inequality and dramatically improving the lives of thousands of working class New Yorkers.” “In 2013, New Yorkers sent a clear message, that we need to address and alleviate this issue of inequality in our city. Right now thousands of New Yorkers are working themselves to the bone, only to still not have enough money to get through the month. This order will provide those hard working New Yorkers with a wage that can actually live on, bringing them out of poverty and into the working class,” said Council Member Ydanis Rodriguez. “The term ‘working poor’ should not exist. Working a full-time job and not making a livable wage is unacceptable, especially for those working on projects partly-subsidized by the City,” said Council Member Jumaane D. Williams. “I applaud Mayor Bill de Blasio for implementing the Living Wage Executive Order, which will require employers who receive tax-payer dollars pay a living wage to their employees. As our city continues on the path of economic recovery, this executive order will help ensure that good jobs with a living wage are created for those who need them most.” “We applaud the Mayor’s decision to stand with working families and raise the hourly wage to $13.13. This decision gets fast food workers a step closer to winning $15. Now it is up to Albany to raise the wage for all New Yorkers and provide millions with a realistic and livable wage,” said Jonathan Westin, Executive Director of New York Communities for Change. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for following through on his promise to enhance the city’s living wage legislation. This executive order will help improve the lives of many retail workers. It will ensure that more retail tenants and subtenants in taxpayer-subsidized development projects pay living wages. We’re glad to be working with the Mayor on this important effort to reduce inequality and to make our economy fairer and stronger for working families,” said Stuart Appelbaum, President of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (RWDSU), UFCW. “The Mayor’s decision to use the power of the city’s purse to raise wages for hard-working New Yorkers is an incredibly important step towards ending New York’s tale of two cities,” said Héctor Figueroa, president of 32BJ SEIU. “Expanding the living wage to more workers means that fewer families and children will struggle in poverty, and that’s good for all New Yorkers.” “Nothing is more important than ensuring fair pay for all New Yorkers. Our union salutes Mayor de Blasio for keeping his word and accomplishing what he promised to do,” said Local 237 Teamsters President Greg Floyd. “Today's expansion of the living wage law is a victory for all working people and for the principle of economic justice. As an education union, the PSC is proud to stand by a mayor who is taking action to reduce economic inequality and the daily injustices that go with it. Many of the families whose lives will be transformed by this law are the families of our students at CUNY; this executive order changes everything for them,” said Barbara Bowen, President of PSC/CUNY. “Every New Yorker deserves a living wage. NYSNA nurses see the devastating impacts of poverty on our patients every day. We applaud Mayor Bill de Blasio for his commitment to ending inequality and to building a stronger, more united city where working people can create a better future for our families,” said Jill Furillo, Executive Director of NYSNA. “This Executive Order corrects the glaring omission in the City’s living wage ordinance that left out commercial tenants on projects the City subsidizes. If the increase announced today is Step 1, I hope Step 2 will come in January when Albany raises the state minimum wage and gives NYC the authority to set its own minimum wage. That will help nearly a million low-wage New York City workers.” Parrott noted that since the recession began in 2008, the inflation-adjusted wages of the typical low-wage NYC worker have dropped by nearly 9%, while the earnings of a typical high-wage worker rose by 6%,” said James Parrott, Deputy Director and Chief Economist, Fiscal Policy Institute. “Mayor de Blasio today announces a major initiative to ensure that our investment in job creation and growth here in New York City can and must be an investment in GOOD jobs. The members of Make the Road New York congratulate and thank the Mayor today. We will stand with you as we make New York City truly a city for all of us,” said Deborah Axt, Co-Executive Director, Make the Road New York. “The living wage Executive Order will have a real impact on thousands of hard-working families in New York City. Our mayor not only came through on a campaign promise, but improved on it by covering more workers at higher wages, higher than initially projected. This is a significant first step toward raising the minimum wage for all workers in New York City and it leads the way for New York State and the rest of the country. UAW Region 9A is proud to stand with Mayor de Blasio today,” said Julie Kushner, Director of UAW Region 9A. “Expanding living wage coverage is a great beginning in the fight against the disparities that are plaguing our city. With more income coming into the hands of workers, more money will be put back into the economy and more opportunities can be created. We applaud Mayor de Blasio for ensuring coverage for more workers and more jobs,” said Ketny Jean-Francois, Board of Directors, Community Voices Heard. “We commend Mayor de Blasio’s ongoing commitment to addressing income inequality, said Hispanic Federation President Jose Calderon. By taking this step, the Mayor is helping to ensure that our city can be a place where all workers can put food on the table for their families and have an opportunity to live in dignity,” said Jose Calderon, President of Hispanic Federation. “By his action today, Mayor de Blasio has significantly strengthened the living wage law and set a new benchmark of $13.13 as the minimum adequate wage in our city,” said David R. Jones, President and CEO of Community Service Society. “Together, with his expansion of paid sick days, these policies move New York forward, and insure that when the city invests in large economic developments that businesses, workers and local communities all benefit.” “This measure is long overdue. The City currently spends almost $700 million a year on property tax exemptions going to developers, not to mention many other forms of assistance. This executive order balances the scale by insuring that the people who hold jobs in these developments will also benefit in a real way from that effort,” said John Mollenkopf, Director of Center for Urban Research. “The Mayor’s executive order today results in a much needed expansion of protections under the Fair Wages for New Yorkers Act that covers more workers and improves wages. We look forward to how this action will help pave the way for living wages for all workers in our city,” said Daisy Chung, executive director of the Restaurant Opportunities Center of New York. “The expansion of this living wage law is a good start in addressing the inequality gap that we are facing here in NY. We look forward to supporting the administration with this bill and the efforts to expand the law,” said Rev. Robert Waterman, Pastor at Antioch Baptist Church. “A movement for a $15 minimum wage is sweeping the country and Mayor de Blasio’s executive order makes sure that New York City isn't left behind. As he works with Gov. Cuomo to give the city the power to raise its minimum wage citywide, the mayor's move to bolster the City’s living wage law boosts wages right away at city-subsidized projects to $13.13 and then phases it up to $15.00 by 2019. It sets the stage for an expansion of a living wage to all of the city's workers and adds fuel to the Fight for $15 that started two years ago right here in New York when fast-food workers went on strike, demanding higher pay,” said Paul Sonn, general counsel at the National Employment Law Project. “I’ve worked two jobs at minimum wage and still wasn't making enough money to afford my own apartment so I could get out of the shelter system. The expansion of New York City’s living wage law is exactly the type of people-first policies we need to combat rampant income inequality and homelessness in our city. Thank you to Mayor de Blasio for ensuring working people have enough money in our pockets to live a decent life,” said Elizabeth Owens, VOCAL-NY. “This is a great first step in setting a tone of economic justice not only in New York City but for the entire state and our nation. As a pastor in Far Rockaway I know my people need living wage jobs and I know this will greatly impact my community,” said Pastor Arthur Davenport, First Church of God and Faith in New York Board of Directors. “Faith in New York commends Mayor de Blasio for taking this important step for working families. We know that equitable pay will ensure that New York City is a place for working families. Our sacred text declared in 1 Timothy 5:18 that ‘a worker is worth his wages’ and so we believe that ALL New Yorkers deserve work with dignity,” said Onleilove Alston, Interim Executive Director Faith in New York. “The Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition applauds the Mayor’s efforts to expand the current Living Wage for New Yorkers bill which will put real money in worker's pockets. This is but one step in a longer fight to ensure that all workers earn fair pay for their work. We stand with the Mayor in this effort and look forward to working with Mayor de Blasio to overcome any obstacle to ensuring that all workers earn a living wage citywide,” said Sandra Lobo, President of NWBCCC. “The South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation (SoBRO) commends the Mayor and his administration of providing rigorous, yet balanced, living wage benchmarks for New York City. Individuals and families who work hard to support the local economy, and support local businesses will directly benefit from this Executive Order. SoBRO firmly supports the economic vitality and community development of the Bronx and all of New York City,” said Phillip Morrow, President of South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation (SoBRO). “The faith community in New York City celebrates Mayor Bill de Blasio signing an executive order today that will expand New York City’s living wage law. According to the Hebrew prophet Micah, we are required to do justice, love mercy and walk humbly with God (Micah 6:8). Mayor de Blasio’s moral leadership in working to end economic inequity in New York City is an expression of the justice we are called to embody in our urban life together,” said Rev. Peter Goodwin Heltzel, Director of The Micah Institute at New York Theological Seminary. ###
09.29.2014	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ), Office of Justice Assistance, has awarded a $350,000 grant to the Bronx Defenders for Holistic Defense. Awarded through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, these funds will allow the Bronx Defenders to provide 24 months of intensive training to public defender offices in their comprehensive interdisciplinary approach to defending clients while addressing related civil legal issues and providing non-legal social work support in the Bronx. When a person is charged with a crime, Bronx Defenders examine his or her personal circumstances, their lives and needs, and makes these factors an important component of their legal case. They also address the impact that facing criminal charges may have in other areas of their life – including employment status, housing, and family situation. Bronx Defenders approach is to provide comprehensive support for all of these issues, in order to address the full impact of the criminal justice system on an individual, their family, and their community. “I am extremely pleased to announce that a groundbreaking organization like the Bronx Defenders has been awarded federal money to continue helping our community and to bring their model to other localities. Bronx Defenders offers legal services for criminal trials, but their service model goes well beyond that. It also offers social services and help with employment, housing, and other issues that may arise because of a person’s involvement with the criminal justice system,” said Congressman Serrano. “Its interdisciplinary approach is a great example of what can be achieved when we treat each person as an individual with unique needs, when we work to mitigate the impact of the criminal justice system on their lives, and when we promote alternatives to incarceration. I am glad to see the Department of Justice recognize the success of their work, just as so many in the Bronx already have.” “The Bronx Defenders is grateful for the continued support of the United States Department of Justice for the Center for Holistic Defense. By providing critical funding for our training and technical assistance efforts, this grant is helping to bring The Bronx Defenders’ innovative model of holistic defense to defender offices and jurisdictions across the country. Indeed, this grant is an emphatic confirmation of the Justice Department’s commitment -- as Attorney General Holder recently stated – ‘to addressing the inequalities that unfold every day in America’s courtrooms,’ ” said Robin Steinberg, Executive Director of Bronx Defenders. The Bronx Defenders Center for Holistic Defense offers training and assistance to public defender offices that want to adopt the holistic defense approach in their own jurisdiction, and this grant will allow the Center to continue this training for the next two years. Their main goals are to reduce recidivism, stabilize client’s lives, achieve better outcomes in court and restore confidence in the criminal justice system. For more information about Bronx Defenders, please visit: http://www.bronxdefenders.org/ ###
09.26.2014	Washington, DC – El Congresista José E. Serrano celebró la otorgación de $119,340 en fondos federales para la Coalición de Inmigración de New York (NYIC por sus siglas en inglés). Estos fondos serán utilizados para facilitar la representación legal de los menores de edad no acompañados por adultos que enfrentan procesos de deportación en la ciudad de Nueva York. Este dinero es parte de un total de $1.8 millones en fondos federales otorgados a través del programa nacional justice AmeriCorps, el cual es administrado por el Departamento de Justicia (DOJ por sus siglas en inglés) y la Corporación para Servicio Nacional y Comunitario (CNCS por sus siglas inglés). Estos fondos permitirán a siete organizaciones a través de la nación, incluyendo la NYIC, reclutar un total de 100 abogados y paralegales para que representen a los menores que enfrentan procedimientos de deportación y asegurar que haya una adjudicación efectiva en los casos. Las organizaciones también ayudarán a identificar a menores que hayan sido víctimas maltrato o de tráfico humano, y referirán los casos a las autoridades pertinentes para investigación y prosecución. La NYIC reclutará a ocho “becarios legales” de justice AmeriCorps y los ubicará en cuatro organizaciones en Nueva York gracias a estos fondos. “Uno de los mayores retos que enfrentan los menores que cruzan la frontera sin estar acompañados por un adulto es el tener que enfrentar el proceso legal en las cortes de inmigración completamente solos. Al no poder contar con ayuda, muchas veces terminan siendo deportados aún cuando en la mayoría de las ocasiones cualifican para algún tipo de protección legal o asilo. Los abusos o crímenes de tráfico humano que pudieron haber sido cometidos en su contra muchas veces tampoco son reportados. Es por esta razón que el año pasado, durante el debate de asignación de fondos federales para el DOJ, luché para dar mayor flexibilidad a la Oficina Ejecutiva de Revisión de Inmigración y así aumentar la representación legal de menores y otros grupos vulnerables. Con esta iniciativa el Departamento de Justicia y la Corporación para Servicio Nacional y Comunitario han tomado un paso importantísimo para ayudar a la ciudad de Nueva York y al resto de la nación a lidiar con la enorme cantidad de menores no acompañados que están llegando a los Estados Unidos y proteger a una de nuestras poblaciones más vulnerables,” dijo el Congresista Serrano. “Nueva York es una de las ciudades a las que más menores no acompañados han llegado. Estos fondos y el trabajo de la NYIC son indispensables para la ciudad y nuestra comunidad de inmigrantes. Este dinero, junto con la iniciativa del alcalde DeBlasio y los fondos aprobados por el Ayuntamiento de Nueva York, establece a la ciudad de Nueva York como el modelo a seguir en el trato justo y seguimiento del debido proceso legal en los casos de menores no acompañados.” “La NYIC ha estado a la vanguardia de los esfuerzos para ayudar a los menores no acompañados que han hecho el peligroso recorrido hacia los Estados Unidos, muchas veces a pie, desde sitios tan lejos como Guatemala, El Salvador y Honduras.” Dijo Steve Choi, Director Ejecutivo de la Coalición de Inmigración de Nueva York. “Con la detención de alrededor de 60,000 menores en la frontera del sur de los Estados Unidos desde Octubre del año pasado, vimos como miles de los jóvenes que fueron puestos en libertad viajaron a la ciudad de Nueva York para reunirse con sus familiares. Este año más de 5,000 menores se mudaron a Nueva York y esperamos que antes de finalizar el año se muden 5,000 más. Los proveedores de servicios legales no han podido atender la cantidad de casos que han aparecido debido a esta crisis sin recursos adicionales. Y con la decisión de la corte de priorizar los casos de menores inmigrantes, hemos tenido dificultad en encontrar representación adecuada para estos casos. Gracias a estos fondos, la NYIC va a poder asignar servicio legal de calidad en diferentes organizaciones para poder manejar estos casos. Ningún niño debe enfrentar nuestro sistema complejo de inmigración por sí solos, eso sólo los hace más vulnerables a ser deportados. Agradecemos al Departamento de Justicia y a la Corporación de Servicio Nacional y Comunitario por ayudarnos a poder seguir apoyando a esta comunidad tan vulnerable.” Los fondos de este programa serán distribuidos por el porgrama de justicia AmeriCorps, una colaboración estratégica entre el DOJ y la CNCS, para proveer servicios legales a diferentes poblaciones vulnerables. Este programa en particular fue creado gracias a un mandato del Congreso de los Estados Unidos incluido en la asignación de fondos del año fiscal 2014 que dirige a la Oficina Ejecutiva para la Revisión de Inmigración [Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) en inglés] a “servir mejor a las poblaciones vulnerables como los menores de edad y a mejorar la eficiencia de la corte a través de programas pilotos enfocados en mejorar la representación legal de menores. Serrano ha sido miembro del sub-comité de Asignaciones de Comercio, Justicia y Ciencia por varios años y trabajó arduamente para aumentar la flexibilidad del EOIR con estos fondos. Para más información sobre esta iniciativa pueden visitar el portal: http://www.nationalservice.gov/programs/americorps La Coalición de Inmigración de New York va a actuar como un intermediario para colocar ocho becarios de justice AmeriCorps en cuatro organizaciones: New York Legal Assistance Group, Pace Community Law Practice, Central American Refugee Center-New York, New York: Safe Passage Project. Además de la NYIC en Nueva York otras organizaciones recibieron fondos federales para ayudar a prestar servicias legales, estas son: Equal Justice Works, Casa Cornelia Law Center, Catholic Legal Services of Miami, Legal Services of South Central Michigan, the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition, and the University of Nevada Las Vegas. Sus programas ayudarán a menores en las ciudades de Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Charlotte, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, El Paso, Las Vegas, Miami, Phoenix, San Antonio, San Diego y Seattle. Los becarios de justice AmeriCorps tendrán que ir a unos entrenamientos antes de empezar sus labores donde aprenderán acerca de la leyes migratorias que aplican a los menores, el proceso de deportación, leyes de ética profesional que aplican cuando trabajas con menores, y también aprenderán cuales son las maneras culturalmente apropiadas, y que eviten traumas, de comunicarse con estos menores. Estos fondos complementan dos medidas que fueron anunciadas recientemente por el alcalde de Nueva York Bill De Blasio y la Ciudad de Nueva York para por primera vez dar servicios sociales directos a menores no acompañados y sus familiares o guardianes legales en la corte de inmigración de Nueva York. Representantes del Departamento de Educación de la Ciudad de Nueva York y el Departamento de Salud e Higiene Mental estarán en las cortes federales de inmigración para ayudar a estar personas a acceder servicios de salud, de educación y otros programas de servicios sociales. El Ayuntamiento de la Ciudad de Nueva York (New York City Council) se unió a los esfuerzos de dos organizaciones filantrópicas – La fundación Robin Hood y el New York Community Trust – y asignaron un total de $1.9 millones para una coalición de organizaciones in Nueva York que le proveen representacion legal y otros servicios a menores no acompañados. Algunas de las organizaciones que recibirán parte de estos fondos son: The Door, The Legal Aid Society, Catholic Charities, and the Safe Passage Project. ###
09.26.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) today applauded the awarding of a $119,340 justice AmeriCorps grant to the New York Immigration Coalition (NYIC) to facilitate legal representation to unaccompanied minors who face immigration proceedings in New York City. The funding is part of a total of $1.8 million in federal grants announced last week by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), which jointly administer the AmeriCorps National programs, to help children who have crossed the U.S.-Mexico border without a parent or legal guardian. These grants will allow seven different organizations throughout the nation, including the New York Immigration Coalition (NYIC), to recruit a total of approximately 100 lawyers and parelegals to represent children in immigration proceedings and increase the effective adjudication of cases. The NYIC coalition will recruit and place eight justice AmeriCorps Fellows. Grantees will also help identify children who have been victims of human trafficking or abuse, and refer all relevant cases to the proper authorities for investigation and prosecution. “One of the main challenges that unaccompanied minors encounter after crossing the U.S.-Mexico border is having to go through immigration court completely alone. Left to their own devices, more often than not they end up facing deportation even if they qualify for some sort legal protection or asylum. Human trafficking and child abuse crimes that may have been committed against them also end up unreported. That is why I pushed to increase flexibility for the Executive Office of Immigration Review to increase legal representation for minors and other vulnerable groups in last year’s Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill. With this initiative, the Department of Justice and the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) have taken an important step to help NYC and the rest of the nation deal with the large number of unaccompanied children arriving in the U.S. and to protect one of our most vulnerable populations,” said Congressman Serrano. “New York City has seen one of the largest influxes of unaccompanied children. This funding and the services that the New York Immigration Coalition will coordinate are crucial for our city and for our immigrant families. Together with Mayor De Blasio’s direct social services initiative announced last week, and the funding recently provided by the New York City Council, this firmly establishes New York City as a leader in providing fair treatment and due process to unaccompanied minors,” he added. "The NYIC has been at the forefront of efforts to support unaccompanied children who have faced harrowing and dangerous journeys to the United States, some travelling on foot from as far as Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras," said Steven Choi, Executive Director of the New York Immigration Coalition. "With 60,000 minors detained at the U.S southern border since October of last year, we saw several thousand youth released from detention making their way to New York to reunite with guardians and family members. Already nearly 5,000 migrant children have arrived in New York, with up to 5,000 more anticipated to come before the end of the year. Legal Service providers have been stretched thin trying to respond to this crisis with no additional resources. With the court cases of child migrants being fast tracked to the front of the line, there has been a scramble to find quality legal representation for these cases. With this justice Americorps grant, the NYIC is looking forward to begin placing qualified legal service support in several of our partner and member organizations to take on these critical caseloads. No child should be left to navigate the complex immigration system by themselves, leaving them vulnerable to deportation. We thank the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) for the opportunity to continue this integral support for a very vulnerable population." Funding for this initiative will be disbursed by the justice AmeriCorps program, a strategic partnership between the Department of Justice and the Corporation for National and Community Service to provide legal aid to vulnerable populations. This particular program responds to Congress’ direction in the fiscal year 2014 appropriations process to the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) “to better serve vulnerable populations such as children and improve court efficiency through pilot efforts aimed at improving legal representation.” Serrano is a long-time member of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds EOIR, and pushed to include this funding flexibility. For more information about the justice Americops initiative, please visit: http://www.nationalservice.gov/programs/americorps The New York Immigration Coalition (NYIC) will act as a justice AmeriCorps intermediary sponsor and place eight justice Americorps Fellows in four different organizations in New York: Safe Passage Project, New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG), Pace Community Law Practice (PCLP), and the Central American Refugee Center-New York (CARECEN-NY). Besides the New York Immigration Coalition in NYC, the following legal aid organizations will receive a grant: Equal Justice Works, Casa Cornelia Law Center, Catholic Legal Services of Miami, Legal Services of South Central Michigan, the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition, and the University of Nevada Las Vegas. Their programs will serve children in immigration courts in Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Charlotte, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, El Paso, Las Vegas, Miami, Phoenix, San Antonio, San Diego and Seattle after justice AmeriCorps members attend a national training program later this year. The training will include immigration laws and regulations applicable to unaccompanied children; immigration proceedings practice and procedure; ethics for professionals working with children and youths; and trauma-informed and culturally-appropriate models of interacting with unaccompanied children. This funding comes on top of two initiatives recently announced by Mayor De Blasio and the City of New York to provide direct social services for the first time ever to unaccompanied minors and their family or legal guardians at the NYC Immigration Court. Representatives from NYC’s Department of Education (DOE) and Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) will be stationed at the federal immigration court to help them access health care, education and other social service programs. The New York City Council will also join efforts with two philanthropic organizations - the Robin Hood Foundation and the New York Community Trust - and give a total of $1.9 million in funding to a coalition of organizations in New York to provide legal representation and other services to unaccompanied immigrant children. Some of the organizations that will receive funding for these purposes are: The Door, The Legal Aid Society, Catholic Charities Community Services, and the Safe Passage Project. ###
09.26.2014	The Bronx, NY —On Thursday, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) hosted the first annual celebration of African Heritage Month in the Bronx. During the celebration, Congressman Serrano honored the work of four African community leaders who have distinguished themselves for their work in New York City and the Bronx and presented them with statements to be submitted into Congressional Record: Dr. Bola Omotosho, Chair, Community Board #5; Stephanie Arthur, President and Founder of S. Arthur Group LLC; Djounedou Titikpina (Titi) President of African People Alliance (APA), Inc.; and Sheikh Moussa Drammeh, Principal of the Islamic Leadership School. “Last night I had the pleasure of hosting the First Annual African Heritage Month in the Bronx to celebrate the many contributions of the African community and honor the work of some of the remarkable leaders that are truly making a difference in our borough. “The African community plays an integral role in the Bronx. From business owners to leaders that advocate for change here and abroad to families I run into on a daily basis, I am proud to represent them in Congress and to join them in their efforts for more opportunities and a better quality of life. “People like Dr. Omotosho, Ms. Drammeh, Ms. Arthur, and Mr. Titikpina work tirelessly every day on behalf of the African community and the Bronx as a whole. They are a small representation of a vast community that is changing the face of the Bronx and I was thrilled to recognize their achievements and contributions. I look forward to continue working with them in the future, and celebrating African Heritage Month in the Bronx for years to come,” said Congressman Serrano. CAPTION: Congressman Serrano stands with honorees and other members of the Bronx African community at the First Annual African Heritage Month Celebration. CAPTION: Congressman Serrano shares with members of the Bronx African community at the First Annual African Heritage Month Celebration. ###
09.19.2014	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement regarding his decision to vote against the McKeon amendment to train and arm Syrian rebels considered earlier this week in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I could not in good conscience support the amendment to train and equip Syrian rebels that was just considered in Congress. We should have had a robust debate and a comprehensive analysis in Congress before deciding to vote on this proposal, which ultimately means we will get further involved in the region. After more than 10 years of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, the American people do not want another ground war and this amendment moves us slowly in that direction. Once the United States decides to get militarily involved in Syria by supporting rebels, it will be hard to backpedal and no one knows when this involvement will end. The next step could well be sending our troops once again to the Middle East, and I cannot support that. The decision to train and equip Syrian rebels is also risky one as these arms could fall into enemy hands, and we don’t know the unintended consequences it will have in a country going through a civil war and with a fragmented rebel opposition. We shouldn’t have even considered and voted on such a delicate matter as an amendment to a larger piece of legislation. The amendment should have been brought to the floor as a stand-alone measure for members of Congress to vote their conscience without any other factors to consider.” ###
09.19.2014	Congressman Serrano with Alfredo Thiebaud Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano released today the following statement after learning of the tragic death of Alfredo Thiebaud, founder and owner of Delicioso Coco Helado: “I was incredibly saddened to learn of the sudden and tragic passing of our friend and neighbor Alfredo Thiebaud. Alfredo was an exemplary business man, a community leader, and a friend to all. “Starting with barely nothing after arriving to the United States in the 1960s as a migrant, Alfredo was able to build a successful coquito helado business with hundreds of carts throughout the streets of the Bronx. Today, that business provides countless Bronx residents with a job and a source of income. Not only did Alfredo achieve great success, but also he never forgot his roots and his community. For these reasons, both Alfredo and Delicioso Coco Helado will always be a part of the Bronx. “Alfredo lived the American Dream – his life is an example of what can be achieved in America when you work hard and give back to your community. “Alfredo touched the life of many with his coquito helado carts, his infectious joy, and with his support for the community. The Bronx will never forget him. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones.” ###
09.17.2014	Washington, DC —Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that Urban Health Plan, Inc. (UHP) will be awarded a total of $249,856 in federal grants to renovate administrative space at its Plaza Del Castillo health center located at 1515 Southern Boulevard. The funds were awarded through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “For four decades, Urban Health Plan has been providing residents in the Bronx with access to quality health care services,” said Congressman Serrano. “This funding will help improve the well-being and overall care of residents in the Bronx. This funding will allow UHP’s Plaza Del Castillo facility to renovate its space and expand the services available to patients. This is an important federal investment in the health of our borough’s families and children.” “Urban Health Plan prides itself in providing clinical sites that are welcoming, clean and safe,” said Paloma Hernandez, president and CEO. “This grant will help us further our mission of providing quality care to the Bronx community and make it possible for us to continue to help residents to manage their own health,” she added. UHP will use the awarded $249,856 to better serve its patients by adding spaces for a health educator and a social worker, along with an examination room. Funds will also go towards enhancing the reception area to create a room for public health education presentations and the addition of kiosks with computers where patients will be able to access their health records. Urban Health Plan, Inc. was founded in 1974 with the goal of providing affordable specialty and primary care to lower-income residents in the South Bronx. UHP is a network comprised of eight Joint Commission Accreditation Hospital Organization (JCAHO) accredited Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQH), and eight school based health programs. This network provides coordinated and integrated primary and preventative medical, mental health, dental, and specialty health services to underserved populations in the South Bronx and Corna, Queens. ###
09.17.2014	The Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs, the Department of Education, and the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene respond to the arrival of unaccompanied minors fleeing violence in Central America by providing first-ever direct services to children and families at the NYC Immigration Court NEW YORK—Mayor Bill de Blasio and Commissioner of Immigrant Affairs Nisha Agarwal announced today that the City is stationing representatives at the federal immigration court to directly address the needs of unaccompanied minor children undergoing deportation proceedings. Since the second week of August, the NYC Immigration Court—already among the busiest in the country—has been holding special daily juvenile dockets to prioritize the court hearings for recently arrived child migrants. This is the first time New York City has ever provided direct services at the immigration court. Representatives from the Department of Education (DOE) will be based at the court to assist children and their guardians with school enrollment and to provide them with information about programs for English Language Learners. Additionally, representatives from the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) will help children enroll in Child Health Plus, a state-funded public health insurance program and provide links to other health services for which the children may be eligible. The Health and Hospital Corporation (HHC) will treat all children referred for their medical and mental health needs. “Connecting these vulnerable children to educational, health and social services is vital to helping our families and communities gain stability,” said Mayor Bill de Blasio. “These children have come here because they have families or sponsors in New York City, and it is our responsibility to assist them. States and municipalities must do all they can to help their immigrant communities—and we hope New York City’s response helps model a more humanitarian approach at these dockets to provide these children with stability and safety.” “Every child has a right to a great education, and we are committed to providing these children who have escaped violence back home with the academic foundation and access to services that they need in order to establish a path to long-term achievement,” said Schools Chancellor Carmen Fariña. “We are united across City agencies to support the unique needs of these students so they can thrive both in the classroom and beyond.” “The immigration court offers the City an opportunity to intersect with traditionally hard-to-reach populations,” said Nisha Agarwal, Commissioner of Immigrant Affairs. “Whereas in other jurisdictions, these special dockets for unaccompanied children have become a rapid deportation pipeline, in New York we are taking a different approach and providing critical support services for the children, alongside legal services providers who are doing heroic work to ensure these children have high-quality legal counsel.” “These vulnerable youth have arrived here in New York facing extraordinary obstacles and grave uncertainty, hoping only for help in the search for their families and guardians and a path to a better life,” said State Assembly Speaker Shelly Silver. “With today’s committee hearing as the first of many steps, the Assembly is committed to finding the best way to assist these children as they embark on this difficult journey. I commend Mayor de Blasio for taking swift, proactive steps in connecting them to the appropriate resources, providers and services. Working together, we can make New York a just and safe community for these children as they seek a brighter future.” “As an attorney who has worked with Legal Aid Society, I recognize the incredible effect representation can have on court outcomes, and I am so proud to be working with legal assistance and youth services organizations to protect these at-risk youth,” said Public Advocate Letitia James. “We cannot rob innocent children of the intervention and support they need in an effort to expedite immigration proceedings. I commend the administration and Commissioner Nisha Agarwal on placing representatives at federal immigration court to address the needs of these children.” “As Washington allows a broken immigration system to remain the status quo, the New York City Council renews its commitment to addressing challenges for undocumented families,” said City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito. “This is why we fully support the City’s efforts to provide unaccompanied minors with health and education services, instead of leaving them alone and isolated in immigration courts.” The initiative is a key recommendation of the interagency task force commissioned by the Mayor and formed by the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs (MOIA), in response to the rising number of unaccompanied minors fleeing violence in Central America, many of whom have been placed with families or other guardians in New York City. The task force includes representatives from DOE, DOHMH, the Administration for Children’s Services (ACS), the Department of Youth and Community Development (DYCD), and other City agencies who have been working together closely to coordinate resources and formulate a citywide response. The City has also been closely working with nonprofit legal service providers, including the Legal Aid Society, Catholic Charities Community Services, The Door, Safe Passage Project at New York Law School, and the American Immigration Lawyers Association, to ensure that high-quality legal screenings, referrals and free representation are offered to these children at the Immigration Court. The task force’s immediate goals are: · Target neighborhoods and schools for outreach. The DOE continues to identify neighborhoods with students from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador who were enrolled in 2013 and 2014. · City agencies will be based at schools to assist with school and health insurance enrollment, legal screenings and referrals, and to provide families with information and connect them to services. · Produce a comprehensive guide of resources and referral information on legal, medical, mental health, and social services for City agencies and service providers to use to locate appropriate help for these children. When unaccompanied child migrants arrive in the United States, they first encounter Department of Homeland Security officials, who perform an initial health check and an immigration screening to begin the deportation process and give a “credible fear” interview, to determine whether a child may have an asylum or other legal claim to remain in the U.S. They are then transferred to the federal Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee Resettlement shelters and facilities operated by private child welfare organizations, where they are temporarily held until they can be placed with family members or other sponsors. According to the latest data released by the Office of Refugee Resettlement, approximately 1,350 child migrants have been placed with family members or other sponsors in New York City in the first seven months of 2014. That figure includes 587 children in Queens, 362 in Brooklyn, 347 in the Bronx, 54 in Manhattan, and fewer than 50 in Staten Island. Long Island has received 2,277, and several hundred have been placed in counties in the lower Hudson Valley. A preliminary assessment by the interagency taskforce indicates that the services to be provided to these children will be covered under existing agency functions and budgets, without the need for additional spending. These children are currently eligible for a range of existing government services, including school enrollment and educational support, free or sliding-scale health care at public hospitals and clinics, state-funded Child Health Plus health insurance, and family counseling services. “I want to commend Mayor Bill de Blasio, the Department of Education, the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs, and the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene for providing critical services to unaccompanied children who have come to the United States in search of freedom,” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. “These children have the right to enroll in public school and in Child Health Plus, a health insurance program, and to have the assistance of attorneys in any legal proceedings. Today, the City of New York has committed itself to securing these rights.” “The United States has long stood with those fleeing persecution and violence around the world, and this situation should be no different,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “These children have endured unimaginable struggle and danger to come here for the chance at not just a better life, but a chance at life at all. They are scared and in need, and I applaud the City for welcoming them with empathy and support.” “As a father, my heart goes out to all of the unaccompanied children making the perilous trek from Central America to the United States,” said Congressman Elliot Engel. “Some of my colleagues in Congress have responded to the large influx of children arriving in our country by calling for harsher enforcement of our immigration laws. Cracking down on children is clearly not the answer. I commend the Mayor’s effort to provide direct services to these children and families in need, and I hope that his initiative is replicated throughout the country.” “New York City has always been a gateway of opportunity for the tired, poor and huddled masses as emblazoned on the Statute of Liberty,” said Congressman Hakeem Jeffries. “It is therefore fitting that the under the leadership of our Mayor, the administration will work closely with the federal immigration court to better address the needs of unaccompanied minors in the midst of deportation proceedings.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio and Commissioner of Immigrant Affairs Nisha Agarwal for their strong leadership in acting to protect children fleeing from those who seek to do them harm. New York is a city of immigrants and, at the very least, we must be able to help those children who are the most in need,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “We must stand with our immigrant communities, both because is the right thing to do, and because it is what has made our city—and our nation—one of the greatest on earth. To turn vulnerable children away from our shores and back to the violence in Central America is both un-American and unjust.” “While children are in New York City waiting for their cases to be processed, we need to make sure that they are receiving appropriate education, health care, and social services,” said Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney. “I am glad that New York is serving as a model for the nation by coming up with an innovative, comprehensive plan.” “I applaud the Mayor for placing the well-being of the kids first. I am proud that our City is providing the protections and basic needs of these innocent children, who have been put in the present situation at no fault of their own,” said Congressman Charles Rangel. “In Congress, I will keep fighting for comprehensive immigration reform that will allow America to remain a welcoming nation of immigrants and a land of opportunity for everyone, regardless of their origin, to achieve the American Dream.” “With this unprecedented initiative, New York City is taking the lead and serving as an example to other major cities who are seeing a large influx of unaccompanied minors,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “One of the main challenges that unaccompanied minors face when they arrive in this country is accessing health and education services and navigating the system without help and support. For the first time in New York City’s history, the City government will provide direct social services to unaccompanied minors and their families at the immigration court to help ensure a smooth transition. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for his leadership in this issue and look forward to seeing the positive impact this initiative will have in the stability of our city and of our families.” “It is incumbent on all of us to ensure these vulnerable children are cared for and their rights are respected,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez. “I’m pleased to see City agencies working in concert to assist these young people.” “While undocumented children across the country have been left to fend for themselves, New York City is stepping up to ensure these kids are cared for,” said Assembly Member Adriano Espaillat. “U.S. foreign policy is directly responsible for this crisis; we have a moral obligation to assist young immigrants who have fled their homes. These children desperately need access to healthcare, education and other services, and I commend Mayor de Blasio for taking action.” “These children have come to our City to reconnect with family members in an effort to escape atrocious living conditions. I commend Mayor de Blasio and his administration for addressing this situation as the humanitarian crisis it is and ensuring that these vulnerable children receive the educational, health and social services that they need,” said State Senator Gustavo Rivera. “We are a city and country of immigrants and ensuring that these vulnerable children have access to the resources they need will only make our city stronger. We need to address the issues surrounding immigration in ways that are effective, meet our economic and social needs, and honor our values as New Yorkers and this new policy is a step in the right direction.” “During this humanitarian crisis, while others have been quick to dismiss the gravity and needs of these children, the de Blasio administration and Commissioner Agarwal are demonstrating outstanding leadership, and running into the fire to help families in need,” said Chair of the Assembly Task Force on New Americans Assembly Member Marcos Crespo. “This initiative will accelerate the process of connecting these children with available and needed educational and healthcare resources. I suggest other jurisdictions learn from this and emulate this approach.” “I commend the administration for their leadership in the face of this humanitarian crisis. It underscores the importance of connecting some of our most vulnerable children to the many resources our City agencies offer,” said Chair of City Council Immigration Committee Carlos Menchaca. “We must also continue to address this crisis with increased cultural competence in order to meet the needs of this community where they live and where they go to school. I will continue to advocate for more legal services for these children as we move forward.” “Helping unaccompanied children transition to life here is very important to their safety and well-being,” said Chair of City Council Education Committee Council Member Daniel Dromm. “I am pleased that Mayor de Blasio has taken a strong moral stance on this issue. By ensuring these young people readily obtain the education and health services they need, this City has reaffirmed its leading role in responding to immigrant needs, especially during this humanitarian situation.” “It is imperative that every child who lives in New York City have access to the health services and education they depend on,” said Chair of City Council General Welfare Committee Council Member Stephen Levin. “By connecting these especially vulnerable children to services, we are doing what is right and helping to ensure that they can succeed long-term. I want to thank Mayor de Blasio and his Administration for working collaboratively to find solutions for unaccompanied migrant children.” “The Health Department is proud to support Mayor de Blasio and The Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs to ensure that undocumented minor children at NYC Immigration Court have access to necessary health and social services,” said Health Commissioner Dr. Mary Bassett. “After traveling to America from their home countries, these children are often in dire need of basic human services, including health care. By connecting them to care under Child Health Plus, New York City is once again leading the charge in repairing barriers in our broken immigration system.” “For decades, HHC has served the most vulnerable amongst us, regardless of their means, especially new immigrants to New York City,” said President and CEO of the Health and Hospitals Corporation Dr. Ram Raju. “Working with our sister City agencies and other partners, HHC will ensure these children access to comprehensive quality health care services at our clinics and hospitals and connect them to a pediatric medical home.” Over the coming months, the interagency task force will also be launching weekend screenings at selected public schools to provide assistance with school and health insurance enrollment, and provide legal screenings, mental health referrals and other social services. Government services available to children in New York City, regardless of immigration status, include: · School enrollment · After-school programs · Public health insurance through Children’s Medicaid or Child Health Plus, unless household income exceeds certain limits · Free or low-cost primary and specialist health care services through the City’s HHC Options program, unless household income exceeds certain limits · Child and family welfare services through NYC Administrative for Children’s Services · Homelessness prevention services through NYC Department of Homeless Services · Literacy programs through NYC Department of Youth and Community Development ###
09.15.2014	Washington, DC – Hoy, el Congresista José E. Serrano (D-NY) emitió las siguientes declaraciones en conmemoración del Mes de la Herencia Hispana, celebrado cada año del 15 de septiembre al 15 de octubre. “Hoy marca el comienzo del Mes de la Herencia Hispana, cuando nos unimos como nación para celebrar las tradiciones tan especiales y las contribuciones de todos aquellos que trazan sus raíces a los países de América Latina y el Caribe. “Como puertorriqueño criado en el Bronx, siempre me he sentido profundamente orgulloso de mi cultura, y de todo lo que los puertorriqueños y del resto de la comunidad Hispana han aportado, inclusive desde antes de que se fundaran los Estados Unidos de América. A través de la historia de esta nación, los hispanos han jugado un papel integral en la formación de su tejido social y cultura. De las artes a las ciencias, de los deportes a la política, no hay una sola área donde los latinos no hayamos tenido un impacto. Este me nos da la oportunidad de recordar y agradecer a la comunidad hispana por sus aportaciones para hacer de los Estados Unidos de América un país más rico y fuerte. “Hoy envió un saludo a la comunidad hispana, especialmente a los pioneros que con su esfuerzo han hecho posible que este país pueda contar hoy con su primera jueza latina de la Corte Suprema, que en la últimas elecciones se hayan elegido un número record de 37 miembros del congresos de ascendencia hispana, y que hicieron posible el que yo pueda estar hoy aquí en el Congresos representando a mi comunidad. “Tenemos muchas razones por las que celebrar, pero queda mucho trabajo por hacer para poder continuar progresando como comunidad. Tenemos que seguir luchando para ser escuchados y reclamando más oportunidades. La comunidad están esperando ansiosamente por una reforma migratoria comprensiva que le permita a la familia inmigrantes permanecer juntas; por un mayor acceso a educación, y por más oportunidades económicas. Los hispanos quieren la oportunidad de lograr el Gran Sueño Americano. Es esa promesa tan sencilla, la promesa de que si trabajas duro puedes avanzar en la vida, lo que hace a este país tan especial. Los demócratas de la Cámara de Representantes, incluyéndome a mí, estamos trabajando duro precisamente para asegurarnos de que los Hispanos y todos los Americanos tengan esa oportunidad.” ###
09.15.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs every year from September 15 to October 15. “Today marks the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month, when we come together as a nation to celebrate the unique traditions and countless contributions of those who trace their roots to the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean. “As a Puerto Rican that was raised in the Bronx, I have always felt very proud of my culture and the many contributions that Puerto Ricans and the rest of the Hispanic community have made since even before the United States was founded. Throughout the history of this nation, Hispanics have played an integral role in the formation of its social and cultural fabric. From the arts to the sciences, from sports to politics, there is not a single area where Latinos haven’t made important contributions. This month serves as an opportunity to remember and thank the Hispanic community for their role in making America a richer and stronger country. “Today, I salute the Hispanic community, especially the trailblazers that through their effort made it possible for our country to have its first Latina Supreme Court Justice, that helped us elect a record 37 Members of Congress from Hispanic descent last year, and that made it possible for me to be here today representing my community. “We have many reasons to celebrate, but there is still much work to be done to continue making progress as a community. We have to keep fighting to be heard and pushing for greater opportunities. The Hispanic community is still anxiously waiting for comprehensive immigration reform that will allow immigrant families to stay together; for better access to a good education; for more economic opportunities in this great nation. Hispanics want a fair chance at the American Dream. It is that simple promise, the promise that if you work hard you can get ahead in life, that makes this country so special. House Democrats, including myself, are working hard to ensure Hispanics and all Americans have that opportunity.” ###
09.11.2014	Washington, DC – Hoy, el Congresista José E. Serrano (D-NY) emitió las siguientes declaraciones sobre los ataques del 11 de septiembre. “Hoy recordamos a aquellos que perdieron su vida en los ataques terroristas del 11 de septiembre, y rendimos tributo a todo el personal de primeros auxilios y voluntarios que llegaron a la escena y trabajaron incansablemente en medio de los escombros. Nuestras oraciones y pensamientos están con todos y cada uno de ellos, y con todos los que perdieron un ser querido en esta gran tragedia. Los Estados Unidos de América cambió para siempre tras los atroces actos del 11 de septiembre y nunca olvidaremos ese día. “El 11 de septiembre nuestra nación se unió como un solo pueblo y hoy evocamos ese mismo espíritu de solidaridad al conmemorar el decimotercer aniversario de los ataques. Bomberos, policías y rescatistas arriesgaron su vida para ayudar a otros. Personas de todas partes del país se ofrecieron para ayudar y dar la mano de cualquier manera que pudiera. Agradecemos sus esfuerzos. Ellos son nuestros héroes y nuestro país nunca olvidará su entrega. Muchos de ellos todavía sufren condiciones de salud como consecuencia de su desprendida labor, por lo que debemos continuar trabajando para asegurarnos de que seguirán recibiendo el cuidado y la compensación que necesitan. “Para la ciudad de Nueva York, este episodio fue una pesadilla, más allá de lo que nunca creímos que fuese posible. Cada neoyorkino, viniera de donde viniera, sin importar su trasfondo económico o étnico, se vio afectado de una manera u otra. Yo estaba en la ciudad cuando ocurrieron los ataques y fue realmente desgarrador ver a nuestra gran ciudad pasar por algo tan terrible e inesperado, pero fue igualmente conmovedor ver como pudimos dejar las diferencias a un lado, unirnos y responder en un momento de crisis. Tomemos un momento hoy para reflexionar sobre todos aquellos que perdieron su vida tras los atroces ataques del 11 de septiembre, y honremos por siempre su memoria y su valentía.” ###
09.11.2014	Washington, DC – Today, US Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement in remembrance of September 11th: “Today, we remember those who lost their lives in the terrorist attacks of September 11th and pay tribute to the first responders and volunteers who worked tirelessly in their aftermath. Our thoughts and prayers are with them and with everyone who lost a loved one in this tragedy. America was forever changed by these atrocious acts and we will never forget that day. “On 9/11 our nation came together as one and today we invoke that spirit of solidarity as we commemorate the 13th anniversary of the attacks. Firefighters, police and emergency responders risked their own life to help others. People from every part of the country also came out to help in whatever way they could. We thank them for their efforts. These are our heroes and our nation will never forget their sacrifices. Many of them are still suffering the health consequences of their selfless acts and we must continue working to ensure they have the care they need. “For the city of New York, this episode was a nightmare beyond imagination. Every New Yorker, from every walk of life, every ethnic and economic background, was affected in one way or another. I was in New York City when the attacks took place and it was heartbreaking to see our great city go through something so terrible and unexpected, but moving to see how we were able to leave all differences aside, come together, and respond in a moment of crisis. Let us all take time today to think about those who lost their lives in these heinous attacks. We will always honor their memories and their courage.” ###
09.08.2014	As 13th Anniversary of 9/11 Nears, Critically Needed Health and Compensation Programs Passed Into Law After Almost Decade Long Fight Set to Expire Next Year – Participants in 9/11 Health Program Living in All 50 States and 431 of 435 Congressional Districts Lawmakers: ‘We Have a Moral Obligation to Continue to Provide the Care and Compensation That Our 9/11 Heroes, Survivors and Their Families Need and Deserve’ New York, NY – With the country set to reflect on the 13th Anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center later this week, many of the federal bipartisan lawmakers who led the fight in Congress to pass the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act – U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Rep. Peter King – gathered together at Ground Zero today along with Mayor Bill de Blasio, 9/11 first responders, community survivors and union leaders to begin their push to reauthorize the critically needed programs originally passed in December 2010. The Zadroga bill’s two critical programs providing medical treatment and compensation for 9/11 heroes – the World Trade Center Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund – are set to expire in October 2015 and October 2016 respectively. To continue these programs for 25 more years, through 2041, Senators Gillibrand and Schumer will introduce the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act later this month in the Senate, and Representatives Maloney, Nadler and King will do so in the House. Nearly 13 years after September 11th, 9/11 responders and survivors are battling serious health crises resulting from exposure to the toxins at Ground Zero. More than 30,000 9/11 responders and survivors have an illness or injury caused by the attacks or their aftermath, and over two-thirds of those have more than one illness. Many are disabled and can no longer work. They are suffering from a host of chronic diseases: asthma, obstructive pulmonary disease and gastroesophageal reflux disease, and many more. Medical research has identified more than 60 types of cancer caused by 9/11 toxins. More than 2,900 people have been diagnosed with cancers caused or made worse by the aftermath of the attacks - more than 800 New York Fire Department members and more than 550 New York Police Department personnel are struggling with serious 9/11-related illnesses, not including the more than 70 firefighters and 60 NYPD officers who have died from their 9/11-related illnesses. Responders came from all over the country to aid in the response to the attacks. And some area residents, workers and survivors have since moved and are currently receiving care in cities and states across the country. Participants enrolled in the World Trade Center Health Program for treatment currently reside in all 50 states and in 431 of the 435 Congressional districts in the country. “Our 9/11 heroes, survivors, and my colleagues fought hard to ensure that Congress fulfilled its undeniable moral obligation by providing long-overdue health care and compensation for 9/11 responders and community survivors,” said Senator Gillibrand. “So just as our first responders and survivors worked hard to pass the 9/11 health bill in 2010, tirelessly walking the halls of Congress week after week, month after month, and year after year, we will do everything in our power to get this new legislation passed and signed into. But it shouldn’t have to take another ‘Christmas Miracle’ for Congress to do the right thing. It should simply take listening to these heroes and reflecting on 9/11 and about who we are as a nation.” “With the 13th Anniversary of 9/11 upon us this week, it is clear that while the dust has settled from the tragic attacks, the physical ramifications are still with us,” said Senator Schumer. “The brave first responders that saved so many victims are now suffering from illnesses from the airborne toxins at the World Trade Center site, and they should not bear the burden of health costs on their own. This legislation, which will extend critically needed medical treatment and compensation programs for another 25 years, must be a top priority. It is our duty to care for the heroes that sacrificed so much in a time of great despair and pain.” “In the aftermath of 9/11 we said that we would never forget – not someday forget or eventually forget, but never forget,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “That vow comes with an obligation on the part of Congress to ensure that we as a country remember, honor and care for those who are now sick or may still become sick due to their exposure to toxins at ground zero. The unbearable sorrow of the attacks is forever seared in our collective memory. We have a moral obligation to assist those who still carry the wounds of that day. We must extend the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act.” “Just as we stood together as a nation in the days following September 11, 2001, and just as we stood strong together in 2010 to create these vital programs, we must join forces again to ensure that the heroes of 9/11 are not abandoned when they need us most,” said Congressman Nadler. “To this day too many of our 9/11 responders and survivors continue to fight serious illnesses, includes 60 types of cancer caused by 9/11 toxins,” said Congressman King. “This reauthorization is critical for these individuals and their families. We have come too far and we must continue to ensure that our 9/11 heroes receive the care they deserve.” “9/11 survivors and first responders need and deserve our continued support. These are our heroes, and the very least we can do is provide them with the health care and compensation they need. Many are still battling serious illnesses and injuries caused by the toxins at Ground Zero, and their battles will continue for some time. That is why Congress must reauthorize the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act for 25 more years,” said Congressman Serrano. “No group deserves our gratitude and help more than those who went to Ground Zero in the days and weeks following the September 11 attacks. We have a moral obligation to make sure that these heroes and their families get the medical treatment and compensation they deserve,” said New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. “These police officers, firefighters, medical professionals and other first responders came from across the country to Ground Zero, and as the Mayor of New York City, I am proud to advocate for this critical piece of legislation that will provide care to those heroes in their own communities right here in New York but also in cities across the country.” "Following September 11th, there was no progressive or conservative, left or right, we were all simply New Yorkers, committed to helping one another overcome a challenge, the likes of which we had never seen before," said Mario Cilento, President of the New York State AFL-CIO. "We join here today, with that same resolve to take care of the responders and survivors who have given so much, and who continue to bear the burden of the terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center. Together, we will succeed once again in securing federal reauthorization and funding for the desperately needed programs created by the Zadroga Act." “As many of us knew would happen when fighting for passage of the original Zadroga Act, we have now reached the point where more law enforcement officers have died of a 9/11-related illness than fell on September 11, 2001. It is an unfortunate fact of life for those who left their health on ‘The Pile’ thirteen years ago this week, and who struggle each and every day with the effects of their brave service in responding to the single most heinous terrorist attack in our nation’s history,” said Sergeants Benevolent Association President Ed Mullins. “We have witnessed the importance of the WTCHP and the VCF to the care and treatment of those who are sick, and the SBA is grateful to Sen. Gillibrand, Rep. Maloney, Rep. King, Rep. Nadler, and the other Members of the New York congressional delegation for their leadership and steadfast commitment to reauthorizing the Zadroga Act as quickly as possible.” “In three days, as a Nation we will remember those lost to senseless violence on the horrific day we simply call 9/11,” said John Feal, President of the FealGood Foundation. “But let’s finish the sentence, thousands died that day, but thousands are sick and dying still and we have a moral obligation to pray for those who have passed, but fight like hell for those who still suffer. And fighting like hell includes making sure the Zadroga Bill is re authorized for another 25 years.” "The reauthorization bill for the Zadroga Act is critical for both the responder and survivor population for the continuing needs due to 9/11 toxin exposures," said Catherine McVay Hughes, Chair of Community Board 1. "We must all come together to pass this bill so that these vital programs can continue." The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act passed by Congress in 2010 helped ensure proper monitoring and treatment for thousands of men, women and children that face potential life-threatening health effects due to the toxins released at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. Currently, over 30,000 responders and survivors across the nation are sick and receiving critical treatment and medical care through the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program. Over 60,000 9/11 responders are receiving medical monitoring. The program treats responders and survivors for many chronic diseases and respiratory illnesses, including asthma, obstructive pulmonary disease, and gastroesophageal reflux disease. The WTC Health Program continues to be a critical lifeline for many, particularly when the number of 9/11-related cancer cases among rescue workers and responders has increased over the past decade and continues to grow. So far, more than 2,900 responders and survivors have been diagnosed with 9/11-related cancers, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Since 2012, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has added over 60 types of cancers to the list of 9/11-related illnesses covered by the WTC Health Program. Studies show that 9/11 workers have gotten certain cancers – including prostate, thyroid, leukemia, and multiple myeloma – at a significantly higher rate than the general population. The September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF), which was reopened under the Zadroga 9/11 Health Bill, provides compensation for economic losses to 9/11 responders and survivors and their families for physical injuries as a result of involvement in Ground Zero, including breathing in toxins. Since 2013, the VCF has made over 1,300 compensation determinations and has so far deemed over 7,000 injured 9/11 individuals eligible for compensation. Numerous studies have documented the health effects of the WTC attacks, which include lower and upper respiratory, gastrointestinal, and mental health conditions. These illnesses have caused major financial strains on many of those exposed, who are subsequently no longer able to work and face the high price of health care without a federally-funded national program to incur the costs. The new James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act would: Continue the World Trade Center Health Program, within the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), to provide medical monitoring and treatment for WTC-related conditions to WTC responders and WTC survivors, delivered through Centers of Excellence. The WTC Program Administrator is required to implement a program to ensure the quality of medical monitoring and treatment, a program to detect fraud, and to submit an annual report to Congress on the operation of the program. Continue to Provide Monitoring and Treatment for WTC Responders and NY Community Members. Clinical Centers of Excellence will monitor and deliver treatment for responders and eligible members of the New York area, which will be delivered by FDNY, a consortium of clinics that includes Mt. Sinai, Long Island Jewish/North Shore Hospital, NYU, SUNY Stony Brook, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences Institute as well as by the NYC Health and Hospital Corporation at Bellevue, East Elmhurst Hospital and Gouverneur Healthcare Services. Continue to Provide Monitoring and Treatment for WTC Responders in the NY Area. The legislation will continue the existing monitoring and treatment program by the World Trade Center Health Program delivering expert medical treatment and monitoring for WTC-related illnesses for over 60,000 9/11 responders. Continue to Provide Monitoring and Treatment for Survivors. The bill continues the World Trade Center Health Program providing health care for over 7,000 injured and ill 9/11 survivors including lower Manhattan residents, students, and area workers. Continue to Provide Monitoring and Treatment for Communities Beyond NY. Heroes came from across the country to help in the aftermath of 9/11. This legislation continues the World Trade Center Health Program that provides medical monitoring and treatment for over 6,000 individuals nationwide, ensuring they have access to monitoring and treatment benefits where they live. The program also provides medical care for responders to the Pentagon and the Shanksville, PA crash site. Continue the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF). The fund would remain open until 2041 to provide compensation for economic damages and loss for individuals who become ill from the toxins at Ground Zero. Because the bill links the VCF to the limitation on liability, this later date allows for compensation for victims with latent claims while extending liability protection. The bill requires the Special Master to update regulations consistent with revisions to VCF under this Act. Continue to Establish Cost Share for the City of New York. The City of New York would continue to contribute a 10 percent matching cost share of the World Trade Center Health Program. Continue to Research New Conditions. New research is critical for reaching breakthroughs in diagnosing and treating WTC-related illnesses. The legislation will continue research on WTC-related conditions. Extend Support for NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Under the legislation NIOSH would continue to extend and expand support for the World Trade Center Health Registry. ###
09.05.2014	Washington, DC- Hoy, el Congresista José E. Serrano (D-NY) anunció que $519,884 en fondos federales han sido otorgados al Hostos Community College en el Bronx para expandir las oportunidades educativas disponibles para estudiantes universitarios hispanos. El propósito de los fondos es ayudar a la institución a mejorar la calidad de sus programas académicos, expandir sus ofrecimientos, y mejorar la ejecución y desempeño de los estudiantes hispanos. “En años recientes, hemos presenciado un crecimiento exponencial en la matrícula de estudiantes hispanos en la universidad a través de los Estados Unidos. Estas son excelentes noticias para la comunidad hispana, pero queda mucho por hacer para asegurarnos de que los estudiantes hispanos continúen teniendo acceso a mayores oportunidades académicas y que una mayor proporción de estos logren graduarse exitosamente,” dijo el Congresista Serrano. “Es por esto que es importante asegurar que las instituciones educativas que sirven a una gran cantidad de estudiantes hispanos, como el Hostos Community College, tengan los recursos que necesitan para ofrecerles una educación de alta calidad y promover el éxito académico. Estos fondos le permitirán expandir sus programas académicos y servicios disponibles a la población estudiantil hispana. Al invertir en nuestros estudiantes, estamos invirtiendo en el futuro de nuestro gran país y de nuestra comunidad.” Los fondos fueron otorgados por el Departamento de Educación a través del programa de subvenciones competitivas llamado Programa para el Desarrollo de Instituciones que Sirven a Hispanos (HSI por sus siglas en inglés). Estos fondos son otorgados a instituciones de educación superior que tienen una matrícula de estudiantes subgraduados a tiempo completo compuesta por al menos 25 porciento de estudiantes hispanos,” y su propósito principal es asegurarse que los estudiantes hispanos permanezcan es la universidad y completen sus estudios. ###
09.05.2014	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) announced that Hostos Community College in the Bronx has been awarded a total of $519,884 in federal grants to help expand educational opportunities for Hispanic college students. The purpose of these funds is to help the institution enhance the quality of its academic programs, expand its academic offerings, and improve the academic attainment of Hispanic students. “In recent years, we have witnessed an exponential increase in the rate of Hispanic students’ enrollment in colleges and universities across the United States. This is great news for the Hispanic community, but there is still much work to be done to make sure that Hispanic students continue to have access to more academic opportunities and to ensure they successfully graduate at higher rates,” said Congressman Serrano. “This is why it is so important to ensure Hispanic-serving institutions like Hostos Community College, which serves a large number of Hispanic students, have the resources they need to deliver high-quality education and promote academic success. These funds will allow them to expand the academic programs and services available to its Hispanic student population. By investing in our students, we are investing in the future of our great country and our community.” The grants were awarded by the Department of Education through the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) competitive grant program. These grants are awarded to higher education institutions that have an “undergraduate-full time equivalent enrollment of at least 25 percent Hispanic students,” and their main purpose is to ensure that Hispanic students stay in college and graduate. ###
09.03.2014	Washington, DC – After learning from the United States Postal Office (USPS) the Bronx General Post Office has been sold, U.S. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released today the statement below. The United States Postal Office has not officially announced the sale, but has labeled the facility as “Sold” on the website where they list USPS properties for sale. The historic building, which has landmark status and contains 13 historically significant murals in its lobby completed by renowned artist Ben Shahn during the Great Depression, will maintain a post office under the new ownership. “The United States Postal Service has sold one of the Bronx’s most important community and historic treasures in a completely irresponsible manner— ignoring historic preservation law, without considering other options, and without properly consulting the community and listening to its concerns. The USPS has disregarded the voices of the Bronx community, elected officials, historic preservationists, and their own employees- all of whom opposed this process and this sale. Moreover, they have failed to formally announce the sale and provide details to the community. “The leadership of the Postal Service has clearly lost all perspective regarding their responsibility to the public that they are supposed to serve, and their efforts to sell the Bronx GPO are emblematic of their flawed attitude. The Postal Service are stewards of buildings that ultimately belong to the American people, but sadly the USPS seems to feel no responsibility to the very people who suffer when they sell their property- their customers. “Although I strongly oppose the sale of the historic Bronx General Post Office, I understand that the Postal Service has agreed with me and the surrounding community on one important point: that there must continue to be a post office in this facility. This, combined with our previous efforts to landmark the Ben Shahn murals, means that there will be some services and protections remaining despite the change in the building’s ownership. “However, these victories are small compared to the feelings of those in the community whose voices were minimized and ignored throughout this process. It’s a shame. Unfortunately, the people of the Bronx are not alone in these frustrations. All throughout the United States, the Postal Service is neglecting historic post offices and offering them for sale at bargain prices. “No-one doubts that the Postal Service has serious financial problems- but the solution to those problems does not lie in selling off pieces of our nation’s history and legacy, let alone doing so in a manner that minimizes public input and ignores their obligations under the law. This is why I recently introduced legislation to reform the way the Postal Office goes about selling their properties and to ensure greater accountability under the law. Our communities deserve better than was has happened in the Bronx, and this legislation will ensure that their voices are no longer ignored. "The development company that purchased this building now has many choices as to how to develop the project. I expect them to listen to the many community voices that feel strongly about this building, and I will continue fighting for the community’s needs and concerns to be taken in consideration as the project evolves,” said Congressman Serrano. Congressman Serrano championed efforts to protect the 13 murals by extending the post office’s protected historical landmark status to its interior. He also commissioned two reports on the process the USPS employs to sell its historical properties, which shed light on the flawed processes involved. Last month, Congressman Serrano introduced legislation to reform the Postal Service’s sale of historic post offices and require them to move forward with any future sales in a transparent manner, in compliance with federal laws, and in consultation with local communities. These reforms would prevent what is happening in the Bronx and other places throughout the nation from continuing to occur in the future. ###
09.02.2014	Funding will help Spring Bank expand lending and services for low income individuals and businesses, promote community economic development Washington, DC – Today, US Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) announced that Spring Bank has been awarded $700,000 from the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund). Awarded through the fiscal year (FY) 2014 round of the Community Development Financial Institutions Program (CDFI Program), the funds will enable Spring Bank to expand its lending and other services to individuals and small businesses in the Bronx. “Community Development Financial Institutions like Spring Bank are crucial in places like the Bronx, where individuals, small businesses, and other organizations need more access to affordable and trustworthy financial institutions that care about their financial wellbeing. Far too often, big banks and financial institutions do not offer their services and lend money in Bronx communities. Or they do so in ways that aren't consumer friendly,” said Congressman Serrano. “Community Development Financial Institutions fill this void in underserved communities. They are truly life changing for folks and organizations that otherwise wouldn’t have access to the credit, financing, and counsel they need. Their investments in the Bronx and throughout the nation has made it possible for many to buy their first home or start their business, and helped finance the creation of important community housing and health care facilities. This is why, as a member of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, I have always made it a priority to ensure the CDFI Fund and community development financial institutions have the resources they need to continue serving the community,” he added. “We’ve worked for over a year with people from across the Bronx and the city to get the details of this program just right. And it’s largely because of the valuable input from our neighbors, our advisory board and the Bronx community that we were able to craft a product that we can all be proud of. The grant from the CDFI fund is valuable and helpful from a financial perspective, but it’s more than that. It represents a real truth: This grant is proof that the Bronx is home to leadership and innovation in the field of financial services. Great things are coming out of the Bronx,” said Brian Blake, Vice President, Spring Bank. The Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund) is a federally funded initiative within the Department of Treasury that was created in 1994 to increase investment and economic development in underserved communities. It supports community development financial institution, community development organizations, and other financial institutions through the CDFI Program, the Bank Enterprise Award Program, the Capital Magnet Fund, the Financial Education and Counseling Pilot Program, the Native American CDFI Assistance Program, the New Markets Tax Credit Program, the Healthy Foods Financing Program, and the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program. The Community Development Financial Institutions Program (CDFI Program) , through which the funding announced today was awarded, invests in and builds the capacity of CDFI’s by providing them with financial and technical assistance awards, so that they can expand their services and build their technical capacity. In addition, the program is a resource that organizations and projects can use to attract additional private investment from other sources. Statistics show that for every dollar of federal funding received from the CDFI program, awardees are able to leverage $13 in additional funding. To date, the program has awarded $1.4 billion in assistance since its inception in 1994. The program has had a significant impact in the Bronx, where CDFI awardees have provided more than 700 loans, worth more than $167 million dollars, to businesses, consumers, and non-profits in the 15th Congressional District. Congressman Serrano currently serves as Ranking Member of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund). As both Chairman and Ranking Member, he has more than quadrupled funding for CDFIs. ###
09.01.2014	The Bronx, NY —Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement in response to Senator Ted Cruz’s remarks on the Bronx this past Saturday at the Americans For Prosperity's Defending The American Dream Summit in Dallas, Texas. Click here for story on Senator Cruz’s remarks at the event: http://www.businessinsider.com/ted-cruz-epic-speech-obama-is-making-america-a-kitty-cat-2014-8#ixzz3C5NFmsgz. “Senator Ted Cruz’s pandering at the expense of the good people of the Bronx, continues to show just how much the darling of the Tea Party is out of touch with real life in our country. Instead of getting his republican colleagues to work on passing Immigration Reform, he attacks hard working people in the Bronx as part of his pathetic approach to deal with the immigration issue. Your comments about Manhattan’s concern about their security in relationship to the Bronx, Senator Cruz, is a cheap shot meant to divert attention away from your failed leadership on this issue. Manhattan has nothing to fear from the Bronx, but our country should fear your extreme and divisive philosophy,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. ###
08.28.2014	“Having created the first statewide universal pre-K initiative nearly two decades ago, I have fought relentlessly to bring expanded full-day, universal pre-K to the children of our state. Working with Governor Cuomo, Mayor de Blasio, and my Assembly Democratic colleagues we are finally on the verge of realizing this dream. In this year’s state budget, we committed $300 million to New York City for the coming school year and $1.5 billion over the next five years, and news that the city has been able to fill more than 50,000 seats in just a few short months is proof positive that our efforts have been worth it. Setting up this program is a tremendous undertaking, and I am confident that Mayor de Blasio and his team are carefully scrutinizing each and every pre-k center to ensure the highest-quality and safest environment for our children. In the end, as I have said in the past, universal pre-k is a game changer for so many families and their children, with proven positive long-lasting effects on our children, their academic achievement and prospects for the future,” said Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. “As we kick off this new school year, we also mark an historic turning point in the educational legacy of New York City. Providing fully funded pre-kindergarten for tens of thousands of the city’s toddlers will give them the early learning tools and jump start on their education that they deserve. I am delighted to celebrate this milestone with Mayor de Blasio, the culmination of a year’s worth of our mutual work and commitment, to ensuring that our youngest residents have bright futures ahead,” said Senate Co-Leader Jeffrey D. Klein. “Universal pre-K holds so much promise for 4-year-olds at the most crucial time in their development. After spending the past several months supporting the effort to secure historic funding for universal pre-K, I am thrilled that the actions taken by the de Blasio administration to implement a successful program is ready to launch. I am confident we will have safe, high quality learning environments across the city,” said Senator Michael Gianaris. “Not only is New York City’s UPK program groundbreaking, but parents and guardians can rest easy knowing that these high-quality programs will be safe, and provide benefits that will follow their children for the rest of their education and adult life. In this first year of UPK expansion, 30,000 more children will have the opportunity to enroll in full-day pre-k programs. As we move towards September, I commend the administration on more than doubling pre-kindergarten seats in throughout the City of New York,” said Public Advocate Letitia James. “Early childhood education is a transformative tool for every young person, whether they grow up in Brownsville, Brooklyn Heights, or any point in between. Social science and anecdotal evidence alike confirm that activating a child's mind as early as possible results in a more prosperous future, for the individual and the community alike. The dedication and hard work that Mayor de Blasio, Chancellor Fariña and thousands of organizers have shown this year to expand the reach of pre-kindergarten to 30,000 more children has been truly outstanding. We are closing the opportunity gap more and more with every storybook read, every ABC recited and every imagination explored. Moreover, the expansion of pre-K in New York City will fuel the innovation that drives our economic growth for years to come,” said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams. “This is good news for children, for parents, and for our city. Getting childen into caring classrooms early means excellence can become a habit, and everyone benefits,” said Manhattan Borough President Gale A. Brewer. “As we approach the beginning of the school year, I want to extend my congratulations to Mayor de Blasio, Chancellor Fariña and their team on a fantastic job at putting together so many high-quality pre-K seats. I know firsthand how grateful families are for the tens of thousands of additional pre-K seats now available to them. I am confident that the comprehensive actions taken by the City will translate into safe, high-quality learning environments for every pre-K student. The City of New York has done an amazing job in a short period of time. What an exciting school year this will be for our 4-year-olds!” said Assemblywoman Cathy Nolan, Chair of the Assembly Education Committee. “There is nothing more important to a child’s development than quality early education. Universal pre-K serves as the foundation that allows a child to reach his or her full potential. I am glad to support Mayor de Blasio in this effort, and encourage NYC parents to enroll their children in pre-K today and not postpone this important decision,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “Universal pre-K is a proven education tool which will enable our children to have the proper foundation for learning. I commend Mayor de Blasio for focusing his efforts to ensure that our young people will have the greatest opportunities in the future. With the program ready for our students, and a new school year about to begin, parents need to ensure they enroll their children,” said Congressman Eliot L. Engel. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for everything he has done to expand high-quality, full-day pre-K for kids all across our great city,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “Early childhood education is so important for school readiness and success later in life, and there’s still time for parents and guardians to enroll their kids by going to nyc.gov/prek. As a former educator and someone who has long supported expanding pre-K, I am so proud that New York City is now leading the country with its Pre-K for All program.” “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for championing the President’s call to promote early education and for vigorously leading the effort to encourage pre-K enrollment in our city. We know that early education is a lifetime investment that is critical to an individual’s long-term success. In addition to advancing academic opportunities, these programs provide the essential workforce skills which will help reduce poverty in our communities. In Congress, I will keep supporting legislative initiatives that expand access to high-quality preschool to every child in America,” said Congressman Charles B. Rangel. “Providing every child with universal, high-quality pre-K and after-school programs is simply the right thing to do. I am proud to have supported Mayor de Blasio’s plan from the outset,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “I encourage all parents to enroll their children in this program and provide them with the best possible start to their academic career.” “Studies have shown that the earlier a child begins learning and developing in a classroom environment, the better they will do in school in the following years and further down the road. In light of this, I encourage parents in my district and throughout New York City to embrace the opportunity to enroll their young ones in pre-kindergarten programs so they can be better equipped for their education and lives going forward. I congratulate Mayor de Blasio and his team for their hard work on this critical issue,” said Congressman Gregory W. Meeks. “I am confident that the de Blasio administration has taken every effort to implement the appropriate oversight and screening processes to ensure New York’s children reap the benefits of having access to a safe learning environment,” said State Senator Gustavo Rivera. “The successful launch of an expanded UPK program will be a great step forward in ensuring our children are well prepared for their future and I am certain that, together, we will get it done.” “I commend Mayor Bill de Blasio for his efforts to make universal pre-Kindergarten available in New York City. The Mayor and I worked hard together to enact pre-K in Albany. He has taken the initiative and is now making pre-K possible for our children to get the education they deserve. Let’s support the Mayor and move forward,” said Assemblyman Felix W. Ortiz. “I want to thank the Mayor for ensuring this pre-K expansion doesn’t wait for another school year to pass us by. This expansion is critical, and the laser focused efforts from this administration will directly impact not only thousands of 4-year-olds, but their families as well. I am confident that each school and program will be high quality—and safe—and provide an important foundation for our kids,” said Council Member Karen Koslowitz. “As a former director of a Beacon program at P.S. 19 in Corona, Queens, it was my privilege to watch the effect of high-quality programming on young people, who would otherwise be falling behind,” said Council Member Julissa Ferreras. “Universal pre-K is not only vital to a child’s success later in life, but it is also a bridge that helps them maintain momentum in school. I applaud Mayor de Blasio for working with our City agencies to ensure the UPK rollout is moving forward successfully, giving tens of thousands of our children access to full-day pre-K.” “When Mayor de Blasio tells us that every City agency is making sure that these sites are ready, New Yorkers can take that to the bank. I and millions of others are fully aware of the Mayor’s commitment to quality pre-K programs, and I have full confidence that all locations will be safe and ready to go as children start school this year,” said Council Member James Vacca. “I applaud Mayor de Blasio for all of the fine work he has done to ensure that all pre-K sites in New York City are ready for the new school year. It is a fact that children who begin receiving an education before they are enrolled in kindergarten perform at a higher academic level than those who do not receive early schooling. The Mayor understands the importance of placing our children in an environment that promotes learning at the youngest age possible,” said Council Member Mathieu Eugene. “With the school year just days away from beginning, I am excited to see the impact that the expansion of pre-K programs will have on our children,” said Council Member I. Daneek Miller. “I am proud of the work we have done to get to this point: preparing providers, making sure all facilities are up to standards, and allocating the financial resources needed to provide adequate staffing for this expansion. With these preparations, the 2014 – 2015 school year should be a safe, fun, and educational experience for our youngest learners.” “The Mayor is striking the right balance to ensure that UPK starts on time with providers who pass all safety requirements. I look forward to continuing to work with Mayor’s Office, and I applaud the wonderful work that has been done by so many agencies to create safe, quality UPK sites for our children,” said Council Member Helen Rosenthal. “We know how crucial early childhood education is and how much of a difference it can make in the development of young minds. Equally important is the safety of the child care centers. The Department of Health and Mental Hygiene is working with the Department of Buildings, FDNY, the Department of Design and Construction, the Department of Education, and the Department of Investigation to ensure that each and every pre-K site and staff meet the City’s high-quality standards. I am confident that many pre-K sites will be ready to open in September and thousands of our youngsters will be attending their first pre-K class,” said Council Member Andy King. “After months of preparation, I am excited to see universal pre-kindergarten roll-out as the new school year begins. The City has worked tirelessly with providers to ensure that sites in every neighborhood are ready for the new school year and that they meet the highest standards of safety and quality. Parents deserve and expect nothing than the best for their children and that is why universal pre-kindergarten sites have undergone extra inspections and preparation. Universal pre-kindergarten will give every child equal opportunity to reach their full potential and set them up for long-term success. My thanks go to Mayor de Blasio, Deputy Mayor Buery, Chancellor Fariña, and everyone who has worked hard in preparing New York City for the launch of universal pre-kindergarten,” said Council Member Stephen Levin. “As a former Chief of Staff to the Mayor, I know that the formality of contract registration often happens after a program is already underway. At the end of the day, it is the Mayor who is the ultimate authority for ensuring that pre-K programs are safe and benefit children. I am confident that the Mayor knows how important it is to get this part of the job done and will make sure his people will do that,” said Peter Madonia, former Chief of Staff to Mayor Bloomberg. “It is common practice for providers to offer services before contracts are fully in place. And the registration of contracts a purely ministerial function of the comptroller's office. All vetting, licenses, safety requirements, and the approval that an organization can supervise children, is thoroughly accomplished by NYC agencies and is 100 percent a mayoral function. The responsibility for health and safety is at the Mayor's office, not with the Comptroller,” said Marla Simpson, executive director of Brooklyn Community Services and former New York City Chief Procurement Officer and Director of the Mayor's Office of Contract Services under Mayor Bloomberg. “For 125 years, the Educational Alliance has been a launching pad into the middle class for countless New York families. This historic UPK initiative will continue that longstanding tradition. We applaud the de Blasio administration’s efforts to put kids first by transforming UPK education in our city. As a provider of UPK services on the Lower East Side, we have witnessed firsthand the priority and serious attention the administration is placing on our children’s health and safety. To assert otherwise is disingenuous,” said Alan van Capelle, President and CEO of the Educational Alliance. “As children prepare for school to begin next week I am excited that among them are thousands more four year olds who will benefit from full day universal pre-kindergarten. The wait for UPK is over and the City, parents and children are ready. Because of the effort put forth by City agencies working with community based organizations, with health, safety and teacher preparedness as paramount concerns, four year olds will be attending high quality and safe programs. Parents can rest assured that their children will be safe as their foundations for learning are strengthened,” said Jennifer Jones Austin, Chief Executive Officer at Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies. “The NYC DOE and the Mayor’s Office have coordinated an extraordinary implementation of the City’s Universal Pre-K Initiative. Every office and every agency has focused on every detail to ensure that as many children as possible have a high quality pre-k classroom to go to next week. The coordinated efforts, led by the DOE’s Office of Early Childhood Education, to recruit, train, educate, and orient a cadre of highly effective teachers this Summer will continue throughout the school year in an unprecedented research-based approach that will afford each teacher the support needed to inspire and sustain excellence. In a world where bureaucracy creates obstacles at every turn, the city of New York has risen to the occasion and systematically and efficiently built the pre-k expansion with attention to every detail, with cooperation and action from every city agency, and built partnerships with schools, community-based organizations, higher education, the faith-based community and others,” said Sherry M. Cleary, Executive Director, New York Early Childhood Professional Development Institute. “What the de Blasio administration and the team of dedicated staff at the Department of Education are doing is critically important—there is substantial evidence that center-based preschool experiences can benefit young children. To offer that experience universally is a bold endeavor, and doing so can provide important information to other cities seeking to ensure young children’s readiness for school. Indeed, my discussions with staff at the Department of Education have made clear to me that they have been highly committed to putting in place the kinds of supports that research would suggest would lead to high-quality preschool experiences—with strong professional development of teachers through training and coaching as a centerpiece of that effort. Moreover, the leadership in the city and at the DOE have shown a clear openness to learning about what the research indicates matters for quality as well as a commitment to ongoing monitoring of that quality as UPK is rolled out,” said Pamela A. Morris, Ph.D, Professor and Director of the Institute of Human Development and Social Change at New York University and Senior Fellow at MDRC. “I have been involved with a variety of pre-K and early childhood expansion efforts across the country over the last 20 years, and I have never seen a more thoughtful, coordinated roll out than what has been put in place by the Mayor’s Office and the New York City Board of Education. The team in City Hall and the board of education have been laser focused on getting the most important stuff right—from safety inspections to training teachers to ensuring high-quality providers are in place. That’s good news for the 50,000 4-year-olds that will be served this year in this heroic effort. What makes no sense is delaying the start of pre-K for even one child in order to follow some bureaucratic process that has no bearing on either the safety or the learning of preschoolers. Every parent should feel comfortable sending their child to pre-K classrooms across the city next week—and grateful they live in a city where the Mayor’s top priority is ensuring every 4-year-old gets a high-quality preschool experience,” said Aaron Lieberman, founder and chairman, Acelero Learning, CEO, Shine Early Learning. ###
08.28.2014	Premier transportation hub in the Bronx will be enhanced after collaborative reconstruction process with the Department of Design and Construction. Project completion expected in fall 2015. New York City Department of Transportation (DOT) Commissioner Polly Trottenberg and New York City Department of Design and Construction (DDC) Commissioner Dr. Feniosky Peña-Mora today announced the groundbreaking of Phase 2 of the Fordham Plaza reconstruction project in the Bronx. The new Fordham Plaza will play an important role in Vision Zero’s goal to reduce traffic-related deaths and injuries with shortened pedestrian crossings, new direct crossings established to deter jaywalking, and a 25 percent expansion in pedestrian space. A major transit and commercial hub, Fordham Plaza sits at the crossroads of 12 local and regional bus lines including Bx12 and Bx41 SBS lines, the fourth busiest Metro North train station, Fordham University’s Rose Hill Campus, home to some 6,700 students, Roosevelt Educational Campus with some 6,800 elementary and high school students, and Fordham Road, which is traveled by 80,000 pedestrians daily. “The thousands of shoppers, students and commuters using this hub each day deserve these substantial upgrades,” said DOT Commissioner Polly Trottenberg. “TIGER grants make innovative ideas a reality around the country and this is an example how the program benefits the heart of the Bronx.” “The new Fordham plaza will bring greenery, new pedestrian space, and safer streets to one of the busiest parts of the Bronx,” said DDC Commissioner Dr. Feniosky Peña-Mora. “Incorporating community input and working with stakeholders throughout the design and construction process will help us build a plaza that meets the needs of those who live, work, or go to school in the area. The plaza’s cafe and markets, along with new trees, plantings, and comfortable places to sit and relax will help transform this major transit hub and make it a more welcoming gateway to the borough.” “NYCEDC is committed to ensuring that the City’s commercial, cultural and transit hubs are thriving while also ensuring that they are safe and serve the needs of New Yorkers,” said NYCEDC President Kyle Kimball. “Improved and beautified plazas make our communities more livable, safe and accessible, providing a boost to local businesses and encouraging job creation. We are proud to have helped with the conceptualization of the Fordham Plaza project, and I congratulate Commissioners Trottenberg and Peña-Mora for their hard work.” “The development of Fordham Plaza into a vibrant public space will be a big boost for the neighborhood and its local businesses,” said Blaise Backer, Deputy Commissioner of Neighborhood Development at the NYC Department of Small Business Services. “We have already seen the impact the plaza can have on the neighborhood through the Summer Movie Series and art installations supported by the Fordham Road BID through our Neighborhood Challenge grant program, and with the groundbreaking and proposed expansion of the Fordham Road BID to include the plaza, we expect to see many more innovative uses and benefits to the community.” “The groundbreaking of Fordham Plaza is good news for The Bronx. This project will significantly improve transit riders’ access to the area’s 12 bus lines and rail transportation while also taking advantage of the more than 80,000 pedestrians and potential customers that walk through the area daily. This project will transform Fordham Plaza into the vibrant, pedestrian-friendly transit hub we know it can be and I look forward to seeing Fordham Plaza becoming an even greater hub of our borough’s retail activity and culture,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. "Bronx residents and visitors will now have access to state of the art public transportation facilities in one of the city's busiest areas. The new and upgraded Fordham Plaza will provide commuters with plenty of public transportation options, improve pedestrians' safety, and help relieve traffic in the area so they can get to their destination safely and on time. Federal funding from the Department of Transportation was instrumental in making this project a reality, especially through the TIGER grant program. Thanks to its financial support the Bronx has been able to update one of its most important transportation centers," said Congressman Jose Serrano. "I applaud Commissioners Trottenberg and Peña-Mora for addressing the essential transportation and design upgrades needed at this major transit hub. I am confident that these comprehensive changes and improvements will ensure New York drivers and pedestrians are traveling with ease and safety for many years to come," said Senate Co-Leader Jeffrey D. Klein (D-Bronx/Westchester). “Fordham Plaza is in the heart of the Bronx and serves as a vital transportation and commercial hub for thousands of residents of the Bronx. I applaud Commissioner Trottenberg and Commissioner Peña-Mora and the Fordham Road BID for their work to revitalize Fordham Plaza through innovative design that will ease traffic congestion, promote economic development, and ensure a more productive use of this vibrant thoroughfare. At the end of the construction period residents will have a new asset in their community to be proud of,” said Council Member Ritchie Torres (D-Bronx). “In conjunction with the DOT’s efforts to improve Fordham Plaza, Metro-North is making big improvements to the Fordham train station,” said Joseph Giulietti, President of Metro-North Railroad. “Metro-North will be doubling the width of the northbound platform and adding customer amenities such as benches and heated shelters to help reduce crowding on the outbound platform. Also, in cooperation with New York City Parks Department, a new direct connection to the southbound platform from Webster Avenue and 193rd Street will be installed. This will allow quicker access to the inbound platform to and from Webster Avenue and points north.” “The improvements at Fordham Plaza also improve the commutes of thousands of our bus customers who use the new terminal or the plaza as a transfer point to other Bronx routes and Metro-North,” said MTA New York City Transit President Carmen Bianco. “The new boarding areas and pedestrian crosswalks make it safer for customers, as well as the new bus shelters that will be installed. A dedicated portion of Third Avenue for buses allows for faster service and gives our buses room to turn and stop.” “The Fordham Road BID is very excited with the redevelopment of the Fordham Plaza site. The new site will be a destination magnet for local residents, workers, students, shoppers & visitors. The accessibility to public transportation including a Metro-North station, Select Bus Service routes on Fordham Road & Webster Avenue, countless connections to bus routes and the nearby 4 & D subway stations as well as the fact that the plaza is positioned between two major Bronx iconic properties: One Fordham Plaza (440 East Fordham Road) & Fordham Place (400 East Fordham Road) highlight the unique character & prominence of this area in the Bronx. This project, when completed, will also create a major platform for retail & food concessions that will generate jobs as well as opportunities for new businesses & local entrepreneurs that will have a positive impact in the local economy,” said Fordham Road BID Executive Director, Wilma Alonso. The second phase of the Fordham Plaza Project will fully reconstruct the plaza by building two large concrete planters and ten small steel planters each landscaped with trees and other plantings. The planters will also have attached wooden seating. Three kiosks are to be installed, one large and two small, for future vendors. A café structure is to be built with a canopy to extend over the Metro-North bridge deck. Once completed in the fall 2015, the plaza will feature a new canopy over the Metro North entrance enhancing its visibility, creating a more gracious stair which will allow natural light onto the waiting platform below, and new ticket machines. The design also features a new bus loop which improves transit operations and vehicular circulation, and includes shelters, seating, and wayfinding for riders. New pedestrian plaza improvements include planted areas to provide shade and buffer from bus and roadway traffic, pedestrian plaza lighting, fixed and moveable seating areas, wayfinding signage, enhanced waiting areas at bus stops, an Automatic Public Toilet, increased vending space including a new market canopy, multiple kiosks, and a café building fronting Fordham Road. DOT is pleased to partner with The Fordham Road Business Improvement District on the management, maintenance, and programming of this plaza. New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) provided a conceptual design plan and project support for the plaza. Together, DOT, DDC and NYCEDC worked closely with the community, conducting interviews, focus groups and public sessions to ensure the new plaza design met their needs. This project is partially funded by a $10 million TIGER Grant, a discretionary grant program administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation to fund innovate projects around the country. The NYC Plaza Program has 64 plazas citywide in planning, design, construction, or complete. Of these, 46 are currently open to the public. In the Bronx, the Plaza Program has 7 plazas; 3 under construction and 4 currently open to the public. The NYC Plaza Program Round 7 is now accepting applications until October 1, 2014. For more information about the NYC Plaza Program, and for program guidelines and applications, visit www.nyc.gov/plazas ###
08.27.2014	Students will save more than 78 percent of costs; be able to take subsidized tests for only $18 The Bronx, NY —Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the U.S. Department of Education, through the New York State Education Department (NYSED), has awarded $264,550 in funds to schools in the Bronx for College Board Advanced Placement (AP) course testing. The funds will be dispersed to schools in the Bronx to help low-income students cover the costs associated with taking these tests. AP courses in high school give students the opportunity to take college level courses and gain college credit upon satisfactory completion of the AP test before entering college. “As children in the Bronx and throughout New York City prepare to return to school, I’m pleased to announce this important funding, which will expand opportunities for Bronx students. These funds will allow more students the chance to take AP placement tests, which can qualify them for college credit or advanced classes. This in turn will help many students prepare for rigorous college curriculum, and possibly lower their higher education costs by reducing the amount of classes that they will need to take in college,” said Congressman Serrano. “Economic status should not limit our students’ ability to achieve. Thanks to this financial support from the Department of Education, the Bronx’s most promising high school students will be able to expand their learning opportunities and accomplish their academic goals,” he added. The funding announced will be distributed as follows: $264, 550 will go to 97 schools in the Bronx. Approximately 7,150 low-income students in the Bronx will be able to take subsidized AP tests as a result. NYSED will be subsidizing tests at a rate of $37, in addition to a significant fee reduction provided by the College Board. Students will only need to contribute $18 towards their test. *For Spanish version scroll down. Versión en español abajo.* Serrano Anuncia $264,550 en Fondos Para Ayudar a Estudiantes con Cuotas de Exámenes AP Estudiantes ahorrarán más del 78% de los costos; podrán tomar examines AP subsidiados por solo $18 Bronx, NY —El Congresista José E. Serrano anunció hoy que el Departamento de Educación federal, a través del Departamento de Educación de Nueva York (NYSED por sus siglas en inglés), ha otorgado $264,550 en fondos a las escuelas del Bronx para utilizar en la administración de los exámenes AP del College Board [College Board Advanced Placement(AP)]. Los fondos serán distribuidos a las diferentes escuelas para ayudar a los estudiantes de bajos ingresos con el costo de los mismos. Los cursos AP les dan la oportunidad a los estudiantes de escuela superior de poder tomar cursos a nivel universitario y obtener créditos académicos tras tomar un examen. “Nuestros niños y jóvenes se preparan para el regreso a la escuela, por lo que me complace anunciar estos importantes fondos, que expandirán las oportunidades académicas disponibles para los estudiantes del Bronx. Estos fondos permitirán a más estudiantes poder tomas los exámenes AP, y de ser aprobados, los cualificaría para crédito universitario o clases avanzadas. Esto a su vez ayudará a muchos estudiantes a prepararse para un currículo universitario riguroso y posiblemente reducir gastos al disminuir la cantidad de clases que tendrán que tomar en la universidad,” dijo el Congresista Serrano. “El estatus económico no debe ser un obstáculo para que nuestros estudiantes puedan triunfar. Gracias al apoyo económico del Departamento de Educación, los estudiantes de escuela superior más prometedores del Bronx podrán expandir sus oportunidades de aprendizaje y lograr sus metas académicas,” añadió. Los fondos serán distribuidos de la siguiente manera: Un total de $264, 550 serán otorgados a 97 escuelas en el Bronx. Aproximadamente 7,150 estudiantes de bajos ingresos podrán tomar exámenes AP subsidiados como resultado. NYSED subsidiara $37 de la cuota de los examines, en adición a una reducción significativa que otorga el College Board. Los estudiantes tendrán que contribuir tan solo $18 para poder tomar cada examen. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.26.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Jose E. Serrano (D-NY) today announced the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), Office on Violence Against Women, has awarded the Sauti Yetu Center for African Women $300,000 in grants to expand and enhance their services in the Bronx. Awarded through the DOJ’s Grants to Enhance Culturally Specific Services for Victims of Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking Program, the funding will allow the Center to better serve non-English speaking African victims of sexual assault, domestic and/or dating violence, and stalking in the Bronx by adapting its “Multilingual Language Access Model” (MLAM), and hiring new multilingual staff for community outreach and awareness campaigns. This grant will make it possible for language advocates at the Sauti Yetu Center to serve up to 75 victims per year, and host up to ten community outreach and awareness events per year. “Every year, countless African immigrant women in the Bronx experience domestic violence or are victims of some sort of sexual assault. In most cases, they don’t reach out for help or report the acts committed against them due to language barriers and cultural stigma. More often than not, they are not aware of the resources in the community available to them or don’t have access to counseling services in their native language. This funding will help the Sauti Yetu Center for African Women’s efforts to fill this gap by allowing them to update their services for African women who don’t speak English or speak English well. By hiring women from the community that speak African languages and understand the culture, the Center will not only help women escape violence, but it is will also increase and strengthen the ties in our community,” said Congressman Serrano. “The Sauti Yetu Center for African women is honored to partner with the Department of Justice to support and protect immigrant victims of domestic violence in the Bronx. We are also thankful to Congressman Serrano for always being supportive of Saiti Yetu efforts,” said Zainab Eyega, Executive Director of the Sauti Yetu Center for African Women. The goal of the Office of Violence Against Women's Grants to Enhance Culturally Specific Services Program is to help targeted community-based organizations address the needs of specific populations in domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking cases in a manner that affirms the victim's culture, and effectively addresses language and communication barriers. For more information visit http://www.justice.gov/ovw/grant-programs#gecs. Founded in 2004, the Sauti Yetu Center for African Women (Sauti Yetu) in New York City works to end violence against women and girls by mobilizing African immigrant women to improve the qualities of their lives, strengthen their families, and develop their communities. Its key program areas include Violence Against Women and Girls, which provides counseling and case management services to domestic violence, sexual assault, and trafficking survivors. For this grant project, Sauti Yetu will partner with the Asian Women's Shelter (AWS) to adapt their Multilingual Language Access Model (MLAM) and meet the needs of the non-English speaking African victims. For more information about the Sauti Yetu Center visit http://www.sautiyetu.org/. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.20.2014	Washington, DC — El Congresista José E. Serrano recibió una calificación de 100% por parte de una coalición de diez organizaciones nacionales que abogan por los derechos de las comunidades Hispanas, Asia-Americanas y Pacifico-Isleñas por su record de votación en la Cámara de Representantes durante el 2014. La nueva “Tarjeta de Puntuaciones Nacional de Inmigración” fue creada para facilitarles a los ciudadanos el acceso a información sobre los Miembros del Congreso y sus votos en cuanto a inmigración. El Congresista Serrano recibió una calificación perfecta gracias a su apoyo incondicional para aprobar una Reforma Migratoria Comprehensiva, y sus votos a favor de legislación relacionada al tema de la inmigración durante el Congreso número 113. Presione aquí para ver la Tarjeta de Puntuaciones completa: http://www.immigrationscores.com/uploads/3/2/0/9/32095163/2014_national_immigration_score_card__113th_congress.pdf “Es un honor ser reconocido con una calificación perfecta en la Tarjeta de Puntuación Nacional de Inmigración del 2014,” dijo el Congresista Serrano. Esta puntuación es un reflejo de mi compromiso de convertir la reforma migratoria comprehensiva en una realidad, de reparar un sistema que no funciona, y de ayudar a millones de inmigrantes que contribuyen tanto a esta gran nación a tener una oportunidad justa de vivir el Sueño Americano. “Las calificaciones de algunos de los Representantes al Congreso demuestran la gran división que existe entre los Demócratas y los Republicanos en este tema tan importante para nuestra comunidad. Los Republicanos han bloqueado consistentemente todo tipo de legislación que busque establecer un mecanismo para obtener la ciudadanía americana, que mantenga a las familias unidas, y que solucione a largo plazo los problemas creados por nuestro sistema actual. Hace tan solo unas semanas atrás fuimos testigos de cómo los Republicanos en la Cámara cedieron a los elementos extremistas dentro de su partido y pasaron legislación que lastima a los DREAMers. Ese mismo día fallaron en pasar legislación para atender y resolver la grave crisis humanitaria en nuestra frontera. La mejor evidencia de cuan equivocado es el punto de vista Republicano, es el hecho de que se han rehusado a votar por la Reforma Migratoria Comprehensiva que aprobó el Senado hace más de un año atrás. Cualquier tipo de reforma comprehensiva va a requerir el apoyo de ambos partidos. Lamentablemente, en estos momentos, los Demócratas tienen pocos aliados en el partido Republicanos para resolver este problema. “Aplaudo a todas la organizaciones que trabajan arduamente para arreglar nuestro sistema migratorio, y que buscan que los oficiales electos de esta nación asuman la responsabilidad para resolver de una vez y por todas este problema tan importante para los inmigrantes y para los hispanos. Con esta Tarjeta de Puntuaciones están arrojando luz y demostrando quienes son los verdaderos paladines de la reforma migratoria. Una puntuación de 100% es solo un pequeño esfuerzo de mi parte comparada con la labor titánica por parte de ellos. Seguirán contando con mi apoyo en el futuro.” ### El Congresista José E. Serrano, el Latino Demócrata de más años de servicio en el Congreso actualmente, representa el Bronx desde el 1990.
08.20.2014	Washington, DC —Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) has received a 100% rating from a coalition of ten national Latino and Asian American/Pacific Islander (AAPI) advocacy groups for his 2014 voting record in the House of Representatives. The new “National Immigration Scorecard” was created to allow citizens to easily track Members' of Congress record on immigration issues. Serrano received a perfect score for his unwavering support of passing comprehensive immigration reform and his vote in favor of key legislative measures related to immigration during the 113th Congress. The 2014 National Immigration scorecard can be accessed here: http://www.immigrationscores.com/uploads/3/2/0/9/32095163/2014_national_immigration_score_card__113th_congress.pdf “It is an honor to be recognized with a perfect score on the 2014 National Immigration Scorecard,” said Congressman Serrano. “The score reflects my commitment to making comprehensive immigration reform a reality, to fixing a system that is severely broken, and to helping the millions of immigrants who contribute so much to this great nation have a fair chance at the American Dream.” “The ratings on this scorecard are evidence of the great divide that exists between Democrats and Republicans when it comes to an issue so important to our community. When it comes to sensible immigration policy, Republicans have continuously stood in the way of passing legislation that provides a sensible path to citizenship for hard-working immigrants, supports family unity, and addresses migration issues in a comprehensive manner. Just a few weeks ago, we saw House Republicans cave to the most extreme elements of their party in passing legislation harming DREAMers and failing to pass legislation that adequately addresses the humanitarian crisis at the border. But there is no greater proof of their wrongheaded policies that than the fact that they refuse to allow a vote on the comprehensive immigration reform bill approved by the Senate more than a year ago. Any reasonable reform is going to require a bipartisan effort. Unfortunately, right now, Democrats have few partners on the other side." “I applaud all of the organizations that work tirelessly on this issue and their efforts to hold elected officials accountable on an issue that immigrant and Hispanic communities care so deeply about. With this scorecard they’re shedding light on who, beyond rhetoric, are the real champions for immigration reform. A 100% score is a small effort on my part compared to the work they do. They will continue to have an ally in me in the future.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano, the most senior Latino Democrat in the House of Representatives, has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.18.2014	Funding will Help Revitalize Neighborhoods and Create More than 150 New Affordable Housing Units Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) today announced that the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation will receive a total of $300,000 in grants and low-interest loans to clean up various sites in the Bronx and turn them into new affordable housing units. The funding was awarded through the Environmental Protection Agency’s Brownfields program, which “helps communities assess, clean up, and reuse properties at which moderate contamination threatens environmental quality and public health.” The new housing units will provide additional sources of affordable housing in the Bronx, and some units will be designed as supportive housing to serve individuals who just went through a period of homelessness, hospitalization, incarceration, and young adults coming out of foster care. “This funding will help continue the revitalization of our neighborhoods and help increase the amount of affordable housing in the Bronx. Throughout the years, I have made it a priority to invest in environmental restoration and urban renewal. Today’s announcement will allow us to continue making progress in this area. I thank and applaud the Environmental Protection Agency’s efforts to help local communities unlock their economic potential by providing them with the resources they need to rehabilitate contaminated sites and make them safe for use. Their support through this type of initiative is crucial in places like the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. The funding announced will specifically be distributed as follows: $120,000 for the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development to construct a 57-unit affordable housing project on 491 E. 165th Street and 1052 Washington Avenue. The project will create 19 new affordable units and 38 new units of affordable housing. Supportive housing combines affordable housing and support services with the intention of helping individuals after going through a period of homelessness, hospitalization or incarceration, or for youth that has aged out of foster care and need housing as new young adults. $180,000 for the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, a combination of a $60,000 grant and a $120,000 low-interest loan to build an affordable housing project with 95 units at 996 Washington Avenue. The project will serve formerly homeless individuals. For more information on the EPA’s Brownfields Program, including funding opportunities, visit: http://epa.gov/brownfields. ###
08.14.2014	NEW YORK – In the wake of the tragic killing of Eric Garner, an unarmed man who died while subjected to an unauthorized chokehold by police officer Daniel Pantaleo, United States Representatives Hakeem Jeffries, Gregory Meeks and Yvette D. Clarke stood in front of One Police Plaza and called upon the Department of Justice (DOJ) to intervene in the case. Rep. Jeffries, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, released a letter sent to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder on August 13 asking Mr. Holder to “open a formal investigation into the death of Eric Garner and the alleged constitutional and civil rights violations connected with the broken windows law enforcement strategy undertaken by the New York Police Department.” In addition to Reps. Jeffries, Meeks and Clarke, other members of the New York Congressional Delegation on the letter include Charles B. Rangel, Jose E. Serrano and Nydia Velazquez. ?The letter expressed concern that Officer Pantaleo remains free and on the police department payroll, notwithstanding the recent conclusion by the Chief Medical Examiner that Mr. Garner had been the victim of a homicide due to compression of the chest and neck. In addition, the letter asked the DOJ to evaluate whether the NYPD “is engaging in a racially selective law enforcement campaign pursuant to its broken windows approach” in a manner that jeopardizes “the constitutional and federal civil rights of black and Latino residents.” In front of One Police Plaza, the request for federal intervention was amplified. Rep. Jeffries: “Eric Garner is dead. The person who videotaped the incident was arrested. And the officer who killed Mr. Garner in broad daylight remains free and on the N.Y.P.D.’s payroll. There’s something wrong with that picture. Instead of focusing on broken windows, we should focus on the broken portrait of justice in New York City.” Rep. Rangel: “While we cannot bring back Eric nor ease the suffering for his family and loved ones, we must and will do everything to ensure justice is served.” ? Rep. Serrano: “The circumstances surrounding Eric Garner’s tragic death are deeply troubling, and come in the context of a policing strategy that potentially violates the constitutional and civil rights of communities of color in New York City. Everything seems to indicate that Mr. Garner was a victim of an unlawful practice that was banned two decades ago, and there are some worrying indications that this tragedy may not get a full and fair investigation absent federal intervention. We need a forceful and unbiased entity like the Department of Justice to step in and ensure justice is done.”? Rep. Velazquez: “This profound tragedy has affected all New Yorkers. Our community and the Garner family deserve a swift investigation that provides justice and a full accounting of the facts.” Rep. Meeks:? “To guarantee that there is the highest level of transparency as we aggressively pursue justice for victims of deadly acts it is often imperative that the U.S. Department of Justice step in to ensure that no stone is left unturned. DOJ intervention is our best hope of a thorough, impartial and transparent process in this instance. Our community deserves answers and the greatest degree of scrutiny in any situation that involves the loss of life; that is what we are calling for today. Anything less is unacceptable and a miscarriage of justice.” ? ???Rep. Clarke: “The chokehold has been prohibited by New York Police Department regulations for more than twenty years, and with reason -- a chokehold prevents normal breathing. We believe that the Department of Justice has a responsibility to investigate not only the killing of Eric Garner, but also the hundreds and possibly thousands of civil rights violations that have occurred with the continued application of the chokehold.”? To date, there is no indication that the local district attorney is prepared to aggressively prosecute this case. Given the institutional relationship that exists between the police department and every prosecutor's office, as well as the highly sensitive nature of this matter, federal intervention is appropriate.? “The family of Eric Garner deserves an impartial and independent investigation into his tragic death. For that to happen, the Department of Justice must get involved,” Rep. ?Jeffries concluded.? The full text of the letter, including signatories is below: We write to urge the Department of Justice (DOJ) to open a formal investigation into the death of Eric Garner and the alleged constitutional and civil rights violations connected with the broken windows law enforcement strategy undertaken by the New York Police Department (NYPD). On July 17, 2014, during an attempt to arrest Mr. Garner on suspicion of selling untaxed cigarettes, NYPD Officer Daniel Pantaleo put Eric Garner into a dangerous chokehold. This technique was deployed notwithstanding the fact that chokeholds have been banned by the NYPD since 1994. The entire incident was video-taped, including Mr. Garner’s desperate pleas for help. His request for assistance was ignored by Officer Pantaleo and other NYPD officials who were on the scene. The Office of Chief Medical Examiner of the City of New York recently ruled Mr. Garner’s death a homicide due to compression of the chest and neck. Despite the medical examiner’s conclusion that a homicide occurred, Officer Pantaleo remains free and on the police department’s payroll. The lack of action is deeply troubling. Equally problematic, there is no indication that the local district attorney is prepared to aggressively prosecute this case. Absent DOJ intervention, we may be marching toward a miscarriage of justice. Mr. Garner’s death has taken place in the context of a broken windows policing strategy that appears to target communities of color for the enforcement of minor violations and low-level criminal offenses. Conversely, there is reason to believe that similar activity is ignored by the NYPD in the majority-white neighborhoods of New York City. To the extent the NYPD is engaging in a racially selective law enforcement campaign pursuant to its broken windows approach, the constitutional and federal civil rights of black and Latino residents may be in jeopardy. To date, DOJ has publicly indicated that it is “closely monitoring the city’s investigation into the incident.” More is required. We strongly urge the Department of Justice to open a formal investigation into the police custody death of Eric Gamer and the alleged constitutional and civil rights violations connected with the broken windows law enforcement strategy. Sincerely, Hakeem Jeffries Charles B. Rangel Jose E. Serrano Nydia Velazquez Gregory Meeks Yvette D. Clarke ### Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) represents the 8th Congressional District, which includes neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens.
08.13.2014	NYC Women-Owned Businesses Would Have Received An Estimated $56 Million More in Economic Revenue in 2013 if Federal Government Met Existing Goal of Awarding 5 Percent of Federal Contracts to Women-Owned Small Biz Gillibrand Bill Aims to Give Bronx Women Entrepreneurs Opportunities to Grow Businesses, Help Level Playing Field for Hundreds of NYC Women-Owned Biz Trying to Access Federal Contracts Lawmakers: ‘We Must Provide the Tools that Women Small Businesses Need to Thrive’ Bronx, NY – Today, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Congressman José E. Serrano, New York City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito, Assemblyman Marcus Crespo, Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr, the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation (SoBRO) President and CEO Phillip Morrow, and Bronx women small business owners, urged the U.S. Senate to pass federal legislation that would expand access and opportunities for women-owned small businesses (WOSBs) seeking federal contracts. This legislation would help level the playing field for hundreds of City WOSBs who want to access the sizeable market of federal contracts. Women-owned businesses are one of the fastest growing sectors of the economy – over 40 percent of all Bronx firms are owned by women, according to the latest Census data – but they are systemically shortchanged in terms of being able to access the market of government contracting. More than two decades ago, Congress set a goal of awarding 5 percent of federal contracts to women-owned small businesses. Last year, nationwide, women-owned small businesses once again fell short of that goal with only 4.3 percent of contracts awarded. Across New York City, it was even lower according to data from Women Impacting Public Policy (WIPP), at an anemic 1.48 percent of all federal contract dollars. If women-owned businesses had received the existing 5 percent goal, City women-owned small businesses would have grown their revenue by approximately $56 million dollars. Senator Gillibrand is pushing for legislation, called the Women’s Small Business Procurement Parity Act, which aims to close the gap for WOSBs by helping them tap into opportunities for growth and job creation. The legislation would provide tools that are already available to other small business contracting programs. The House of Representatives passed a similar amendment earlier this spring. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and the most powerful job creators we have,” Senator Gillibrand said. “And the fact is, women are the primary income earner for a growing share of homes across America. The key to a growing economy, and the key to an American middle class that is built to thrive in the 21st century is women. When we equip more Bronx women entrepreneurs with the access and opportunities to achieve their best in the economy, and their best for their family, that’s when America’s middle class will thrive again. Without a doubt, if given a fair shot, women-owned businesses will help grow our economy.” “The Bronx should feel immensely proud to be the county with the largest share of women small business owners in the nation,” said Congressman Serrano. "In a search for economic opportunity and independence, women are increasingly choosing entrepreneurship. We need to provide them with the opportunities they need to grow and thrive, including expanded access to federal contracts. More opportunities for our women entrepreneurs will directly translate into more local jobs and financial resources to meet the needs of families in the Bronx and elsewhere. Women are key to our borough's economic prosperity. That is why, as Ranking Member of the appropriations subcommittee funding the Small Business Administration, I have made it a priority to increase funding for programs that help women and minority-owned small businesses in places like the Bronx. I applaud Senator Gillibrand for her efforts in the Senate to empower women through this legislation.” “In this difficult economy, it’s essential that we create opportunities for women-owned businesses to flourish and succeed on an equal playing field and Senator Gillibrand’s legislation does just that,” said New York City Council Speaker Mark-Viverito. “Federal contracts introduce millions of dollars into our local economies, and our women entrepreneurs deserve equal access to this expanding market. Women are the hard-working breadwinners of today’s middle-class families, and the Women’s Small Business Procurement Parity Act will provide them with the tools and resources they need to grow and innovate their businesses with federal contract dollars. I thank Sen. Gillibrand for her tireless advocacy to ensure that women always have a seat at the table.” “I applaud Senator Gillibrand for her dedication and commitment to empower our small businesses, particularly our women owned small businesses,” said Assemblyman Crespo. “Our national, state and city economies would have faced far worse consequences if not for the growth of our WOSB's and the jobs they have created throughout our communities. It is long overdue, that the federal government levels the playing field and expands contracting opportunities to these invaluable and capable entrepreneurs.” “We need to continue to help our hard working female entrepreneurs, not just in The Bronx but across the nation, be successful by giving them all the resources they need to run a fruitful business and achieve their goals to the best of their ability,” said Bronx Borough President Diaz Jr. “Women-owned businesses give our economy a shot in the arm and this proposed legislation will assure that our women small business owners are given equal opportunity to thrive. I am proud to work with Senator Gillibrand, as well as great organizations like SoBRO and the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, among others, to expand opportunities for women-owned businesses.” “Senator Gillibrand’s legislation, The Women Small Business Procurement Parity Act, provides the framework necessary to ensure equality in the disbursement of federal contracts, and brings parity to the small business environment,” said Phillip Morrow, President and CEO of the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. “This legislation is at the core of SoBRO’s mission, and will spur economic growth, shape viable businesses, and build on economic stability to strengthen our economy and ensure that we are competitive in the global marketplace. The South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation commends the Senator and her senate colleagues for making this a priority on the federal level.” “As a certified, minority, woman-owned business located in the hub-zone area of the Bronx, Senator Gillibrand’s legislation will help provide businesses such as mine with increased procurement opportunities and support for future growth potential and employment within my community,” said Sheila McQueen, President of Scrub Clean Maintenance, a full-service cleaning and janitorial company based in the Bronx. “As an SBA 8(A) certified firm from 2001-2010, we were able to increase our revenues by more than 50 percent. We were able to demonstrate our capabilities and provide excellent, professional, quality service to the federal government. However, once you graduate from the program, you are no longer eligible for sole-source awards and must search for additional procurement opportunities, which is extremely challenging and highly competitive. This bill would open up eligibility and access, which is important to help businesses grow.” According to a recent report, 8.6 million small businesses are owned by women, with an estimated economic impact of $3 trillion and supporting 23 million jobs nationwide. In the New York City metropolitan area alone, an estimated 670,000 businesses are owned by women – more than a 30 percent increase since 1997 – but City women-owned small businesses secured only 1.48 percent of federal contract dollars through city firms, according to the Women Impacting Public Policy (WIPP). Currently, there are nearly 350 women-owned businesses citywide, including more than two dozen Bronx small businesses, who are certified under SBA’s WOSB Federal Contract Program. Launched in 2011, the program is restricted by the type and size of contracts awarded, for example, it lacks access to sole-source contracts, and represents only a small share of federal contracts. The Women’s Small Business Procurement Parity Act would expand more opportunities for WOSBs by providing women-owned businesses access to sole-source contracts. Removing the sole-source authority restriction on the WOSB procurement program would allow hundreds of City women-owned businesses to become eligible for contracts when federal agencies need urgent action and consider just one company for a job. Currently, all other major small business contracting programs, such as for minority owned businesses, businesses in underserved communities, and the service disabled veterans program, have sole-source authority with the only exception being the WOSB procurement program. This legislation would help level the playing field for women small business owners. Gillibrand’s legislation would also expedite an important study that identifies specific industries where women are underrepresented to shed light on why the 5 percent benchmark has never been achieved. Last year, only 4.3 percent of federal contracts were awarded to WOSBs, which is the closest the federal government has come to reaching its existing goal, according to the Small Business Administration (SBA). Nationwide, failure to meet this goal costs women-owned businesses nearly $5.7 billion in government contracts each year, according to a recent Congressional report. Senator Gillibrand’s proposal, which has the support of multiple national women’s business and small business organizations, is part of a larger comprehensive measure called the Women’s Small Business Ownership Act of 2014, which would expand SBA micro-loan and intermediary lending programs to reach more women borrowers and bolster counseling and business training for women entrepreneurs, particularly in underserved areas. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee in the House of Representatives, Congressman Serrano has increased Small Business Administration (SBA) funding for Women’s Business Development Centers and the National Women’s Business Council, as well as PRIME, SCORE, and Small Business Development Centers. These programs focus on providing assistance to, and funding for, women and minority-owned businesses. ###
08.05.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the importance of the first-ever U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit and underscored the need to pass comprehensive immigration reform for the African community. Serrano, who represents more than 40,000 African immigrants in the Bronx, highlighted the negative effects that our current immigration policies have on immigrants, their families, and their communities. Serrano also pointed out the importance of migration for the region’s future development, growth, and prosperity. “The U.S.-Africa Summit provides the perfect backdrop to discuss a topic that is as important to the United States as it is to African nations – the need to pass comprehensive immigration reform. As the representative of a district that is home to thousands of African immigrants, I have witnessed firsthand the terrible impact that our broken immigration system is having on a population that plays an important role in our region and the nation as a whole. Every day, my office hears stories of people having problems with family immigrant visa backlogs, the asylum and refugee process, student visas, and our country’s deportation policy. These problems end up becoming stories of broken families, academic dreams deferred, and the hopes for a better economic future abandoned. “Let’s not forget the importance of this topic; it is as important to our bilateral agenda with Africa as trade, investment, or economic development. African immigrants are a source of human capital both in the United States and abroad. In places like the Bronx, African immigrants have started small businesses, helped revitalize our neighborhoods, and improved our local economy. “In addition, African immigrants are also a force that African nations can leverage for development purposes in terms of remittances, skills, and investment. But these benefits are limited without immigration reform here in the United States. Today, we have more than 1.6 million foreign born African immigrants living in our country. That’s 1.6 million people whose quality of life we can help improve, and both the United States and Africa stand to benefit further from, if we pass comprehensive immigration reform." ###
08.04.2014	Washington, DC- Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) opposed the proposed Republican supplemental appropriations legislation —the Secure the Southwest Border Supplemental Appropriations Act—to address the border crisis. Congressman Serrano strongly opposed this legislation, which cuts the President’s funding request by more than $3 billion and fails to provide the resources necessary to adequately meet the immigrant children’s needs. This bill does not solve the present humanitarian crisis and puts the lives of unaccompanied children crossing the border at risk. Serrano also expressed his opposition to legislation—H.R.5272, the No New DREAMers Act—introduced by Republicans to reverse DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) and deport DREAMers. “It is astounding to see my colleagues across the aisle shelve a heartless bill to introduce a more extreme bill in order to satisfy the Tea Party demands. Their supplemental bill is simply a flawed, watered-down effort that fails to address a humanitarian crisis affecting tens of thousands of children, and they've doubled down on a bad bill by tacking on votes on legislation that hurt DREAMers. Our country has never turned its back on those who suffer and we have a moral responsibility to protect these children and treat them with compassion. These proposals do the exact opposite. The Republican proposal is not who we are as a nation and sends the wrong message to the world. By failing to address the present humanitarian crisis, Republicans are failing the moral duty to help those in need and help innocent children who are only trying to escape violence at home. “The present crisis we are facing at the border is an important reminder of the need to pass comprehensive immigration reform. Had Republicans agreed to pass the comprehensive immigration reform bill approved in the Senate more than a year ago, we wouldn’t be in this situation today. They refuse to bring this legislation to a vote and as a result we face this crisis today. It is a shame that Republicans won’t even support the sensible and responsible approach that this crisis calls for. The time for action is now.” Earlier today, Congressman Serrano spoke on the floor and at a Congressional Hispanic Caucus press conference on his opposition to Republican’s efforts. Click HERE to view his remarks on the floor and HERE for his remarks at the press conference. ###
07.31.2014	Washington, DC —July 31, 2014- Today, Congressman Serrano introduced legislation that would reform the way the Postal Service goes about selling their properties, and will implement expert recommendations to protect historic post offices that are on the National Register of Historic Places. "The Postal Service currently sells their properties in a process that is not open, transparent, or consistent with their obligations under the law," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "In some cases, their actions endanger historic artwork and buildings. This legislation ends these problematic practices and creates protections that will ensure that the public is informed when the Postal Service attempts to sell property in their areas, and that historic public properties are protected if sold into the private sector." The legislation mandates several reforms to the way the Postal Service sells properties, including: Requiring increased public notice of potential sales and closures, and new public meeting requirements. Giving federal, state, and local governments the right of first refusal on the sale of any postal property. Banning on potential conflicts of interest in the sales process. Putting a moratorium on the sale of historic post offices until the requirements of the bill are put in place. Mandating that the Postal Service may not consider the sale, or enter into any agreement to sell, of a historic postal property without engaging in a Section 106 historic preservation analysis. Requiring that a federal preservation officer be consulted before any decisions to sell a historic postal facility are made. Developing training procedures at the USPS to ensure that Postal Service employees are trained on the requirements that go along with the potential sale of historic postal facility. Creating a USPS policy to allow leasing as an alternative to selling historic postal facilities. Creating a model historic property covenant in order to ensure that historic facilities are protected if sold. Rolling back a problematic rule that would allow the Postal Service to skirt NEPA regulations. "Just three months ago, the Postal Service received two reports that provided them with numerous common sense reforms to protect historic post offices. Unfortunately, the Postal Service has summarily rejected many of these recommendations. This bill will codify most of the suggested changes to USPS historic preservation policies, and ensure that no more historic buildings are sold unless they conform with these increased protections. The Postal Service has a duty to act responsibly when they decide to sell postal properties, and unfortunately, we have seen far too many cases where they have not done so. This bill will change that, and will make certain that the Postal Service operates in a transparent and accountable manner going forward." ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
07.29.2014	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Serrano expressed his opposition to the proposed Republican supplemental legislation. “I am saddened that my colleagues on the other side would put forward such an inadequate and problematic proposal," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "We are facing a humanitarian crisis that requires an urgent and comprehensive response, and this legislation fails in that regard. By cutting the President's request by more than $3 billion, this proposal ensures we will have to address these same problems just two months from now. "I am also troubled by what the majority chose to remove from the bill. The bill is woefully inadequate in providing the resources needed to house, care for, and provide assistance to the unaccompanied minors crossing our borders. For instance, within the Department of Justice, there is no funding in the bill to expand the Legal Orientation Program to help adults and guardians of children in the immigration system understand the adjudication process. Additionally, there is no funding to help provide legal representation to children in immigration proceedings, many of whom may have legitimate claims to stay in this country that they are currently unaware of. There are many more troubling omissions throughout this bill. "The bill also includes a number of controversial changes to immigration law that have no place in emergency funding legislation. I would note that Republicans have spent most of the past two years avoiding any discussion of comprehensive immigration reform (CIR) in the House of Representatives. Yet, had we enacted CIR, we would already have the resources in place to address this crisis. Instead of a piecemeal debate of small changes to our immigration law, the fact of the matter is that we need to address immigration reform in a comprehensive manner. This crisis just underscores that need." ###
07.28.2014	The Bronx, NY —Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in celebration of Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the Muslim holy month Ramadan. “I would like to extend my warm wishes to Muslims in the Bronx and around the nation as they celebrate the conclusion of Ramadan,” said Congressman Serrano. “Eid is a momentous occasion for Muslims around the world to celebrate and to reflect upon the importance of their faith. “Over the past month, the Bronx has been strengthened by the service and charitable deeds undertaken by our Muslim family and friends. This celebration is a reminder of the rich cultural diversity in the Bronx, and how important the contributions of our many different communities are to the success of our borough. “Let us continue to support our friends and family of all backgrounds. I am proud to represent the Muslims of my diverse and growing district. On behalf of the Bronx, Eid Mubarak to all who are celebrating.” ###
07.22.2014	The Bronx, NY – July 22, 2014 – Yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano, along with the New York City Office of Workforce Development, held a roundtable discussion on how to transform workforce and job development in the Bronx. The meeting brought together numerous stakeholders, including employers, educators, training providers, labor unions, and government agencies to discuss how to improve existing workforce development strategies in the Bronx, how to ensure better opportunities and training for Bronx residents, and how to attract new and emerging industries to the Bronx. "This roundtable is an important first step in helping connect Bronx residents to better training opportunities and eventually, better job prospects," said Congressman José E. Serrano. " The Bronx is an attractive place to do business, but we must do a better job of linking residents to the resources they need to get good paying, living wage jobs," said Congressman Serrano. "This meeting is an important opportunity to discuss what is working and what we must improve upon." "Hearing from stakeholders in the Bronx is a key part of the Jobs for New Yorkers process to re-imagine workforce development for New Yorkers in all five boroughs,” said Katy Gaul-Stigge, Executive Director of the Mayor’s Office of Workforce Development. “The partnerships being developed between employers, trainers and education institutions in the Bronx are exciting models for the Jobs for New Yorkers task force to learn from, and will lead to upward income mobility for Bronx residents." "With today's reauthorization of the federal Workforce Opportunity and Investment Act, we have an important opportunity to set new goals for the Bronx, and to ensure that new and innovative resources are available to our local educators and workforce development programs," added Serrano. "Today's discussion is an important step in identifying how we can all better serve Bronx residents and businesses. All of us have a stake in making sure that Bronx residents have the chance to grow and to achieve economic success." The Mayor's Office of Workforce Development was created earlier this year by Mayor de Blasio in order to coordinate workforce development and economic development in the City. The discussion held today is the first step in a coordinated effort to revisit and revise workforce development strategies in the Bronx. ###
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – June 25, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano succeeded in restoring language to an annual appropriations bill requiring the United States Postal Service to maintain six day delivery. The bipartisan amendment, which Congressman Serrano sponsored with Congressman Tom Latham (R-IA), passed and was added to the fiscal year 2015 Financial Services and General Government appropriations bill. “This is an important victory for the millions of Americans who depend upon six day delivery to receive vital services in a timely manner," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "The six day delivery requirement has been in appropriations legislation since 1983, and removing it now would have allowed the USPS to make life more difficult for these many small businesses and individuals. "Eliminating Saturday mail delivery would be penny wise and pound foolish. There is no indication that getting rid of 6 day delivery will somehow allow the Postal Service to return to sustainability. In fact, previous estimates indicate that getting rid of six day delivery would actually result in a loss of revenue that outweighs projected savings. "That is why Congressman Latham and I introduced this amendment. I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting it." The amendment passed by voice vote. The bill now moves to the full House of Representatives for their consideration. ###
06.18.2014	Washington, DC – June 18, 2014 – After spending much of the decade urging an exit from Iraq, Congressman José E. Serrano today said he is deeply skeptical and concerned about growing calls from hawks to re-involve ourselves in the fighting there. "While I agree that the situation in Iraq is quite troubling, and seems to be spiraling out of control, I do not favor American involvement in the conflict," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "We had an election in 2008 that revolved around disentangling ourselves from the mess we had created there, and the candidate who promised to get us out won. President Obama stayed true to his word, and our forces are out. The idea that we would reenter the fighting there is an idea that has very little merit. “Throughout our time in Iraq, I claimed that our presence there would have very little lasting effect on the longstanding conflict between the various groups in that country. Our withdrawal and the current state of affairs, bears out that sentiment, and leads to the logical conclusion that we cannot now fix their affairs by renewing our military involvement. We certainly cannot fix it with bombs. “I urge President Obama to resist the predictable and irresponsible calls for our nation to re-involve itself militarily in the Iraqi situation. Only political solutions will end the bloodshed. Violence will only beget more violence. President Obama must remember that our nation has repeatedly signaled its desire to disentangle from Iraq’s ongoing violence. Now is not the time to override those wishes and reengage militarily.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He was a member of the Out of Iraq Caucus and a constant advocate for bringing our troops home from that conflict.
06.17.2014	Washington, DC – June 17, 2014 – Yesterday, Representatives José E. Serrano and Yvette Clarke sent a letter to the White House along with 35 of their fellow Members of Congress urging the President to add immigration topics to the agenda of the upcoming U.S. – Africa Leaders Summit. The full text of the letter and a list of the signatories is below: June 16, 2014 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, We would like to applaud you for taking the step to host the U.S. – Africa Leaders Summit in Washington, D.C. on August 5 and 6, 2014. Strengthening the partnership between Africa and the United States is of the utmost importance to the future prosperity and security of our peoples. The proactive steps your Administration continues to take in the name of cooperation and mutual development deserves the full support of Americans and their elected officials in Congress. This summit is an important opportunity to bring diverse constituencies together to discuss policy issues and to better develop ties between the United States and the 47 African nations invited to the conference. Unfortunately, we have been saddened to learn that the summit does not intend to spend significant time focusing on an issue that we believe is vital to our policies in Africa: immigration reform. We believe that inclusion of this topic for discussion at the summit will strengthen the ties between all the parties involved, and will help bring to light the need for comprehensive immigration reform across a wide number of constituencies. According to the most recent census, foreign-born African immigrants represent over 1.6 million individuals residing in the United States. Throughout our history, immigrants from Africa have played an important role in revitalizing neighborhoods, starting small businesses, and improving local economies. The African community is an indispensable element of American culture and society, and continues to contribute to the prosperity of our nation. However, our current immigration policies have had a negative effect on immigrants from African nations. Family immigrant visa backlogs, problems in asylum and refugee processes, student visa issues, and our ongoing deportation policies have created great difficulties for African immigrant communities. These concerns have serious financial and familial consequences for all involved— whether here in the United States or in the countries invited to the conference. Many of your previous meetings with leaders of other nations have included a discussion of the need for comprehensive immigration reform. We believe that such a discussion at the U.S. - Africa Leaders Summit will help better coordinate policies and improve relationships between all of the parties involved. We urge you to include and prioritize the need for comprehensive immigration reform at the upcoming summit. We appreciate your consideration of our request, and sincerely hope that your administration will allow for a sincere conversation regarding immigration reform during the upcoming summit. Sincerely, Rep. José E. Serrano Rep. Yvette D. Clarke Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Rubén Hinojosa Rep. Gwen Moore Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez Rep. Tony Cárdenas Rep. Bobby L. Rush Rep. Grace Meng Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Charles B. Rangel Rep. Judy Chu Rep. John Lewis Rep. Steven Horsford Rep. Corrine Brown Rep. James P. McGovern Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr.& Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee Rep. Chris Van Hollen Rep. Raúl Grijalva Rep. Henry C. "Hank" Johnson Rep. Marcia L. Fudge Rep. Mike Honda Rep. Jared Polis Rep. Frederica S. Wilson Rep. John Yarmuth Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton Rep. Loretta Sanchez Rep. Alcee L. Hastings Rep. Gregory Meeks Rep. Hakeem Jeffries Rep. Joe Crowley Rep. Keith Ellison Rep. Jim McDermott Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Rep. Michael E. Capuano Rep. Mark Takano ###
06.16.2014	The Bronx, NY – June 16, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that $4.4 million in federal funds would be directed to Starlight Park in the Bronx for shoreline restoration and storm protection. The Interior Department project would “re-naturalize armored waterfront, improve habitat and flood storage, create new wetland, remove contaminated soils, and enhance stormwater management along eleven acres.” "I am gratified to see a worthy Bronx environmental project receiving substantial federal funding, which will both strengthen our community against future storms and continue the environmental restoration we have carried out over the years," said Congressman José E. Serrano, who sits on the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees Department of Interior funding. "We have long argued that our restoration of the Bronx River was more than just a project to reclaim our waterway, but also a project to enhance our community. This project shows that the federal government recognizes that our environmental restoration also protects against storms and flooding.” The funding came from the Hurricane Sandy Coastal Resiliency Competitive Grant Program, which “supports projects that reduce communities’ vulnerability to the growing risks from coastal storms, sea level rise, flooding, erosion and associated threats through strengthening natural ecosystems that also benefit fish and wildlife.” “I applaud the Department of Interior for being forward-thinking and looking for innovative projects to ensure that the Hurricane Sandy restoration funding that we provided is used to build our communities back safer and better. I’m gratified that they believe that environmental restoration is a key part of the equation. “The Bronx River restoration has provided so many benefits to our community—both tangible and intangible. This new project will do both as we see the new wetlands and wildlife, and also feel safer with the knowledge that in the event of the next flood or storm, we will be better protected from intense damage.” ###
06.10.2014	Washington, DC – June 10, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Bronx had been awarded $5.7 million in federal transportation funds for three projects designed to enhance transportation safety. Of the funds, $900,000 will go to a project to improve pedestrian and bicycle safety on Bruckner Boulevard. Another $800,000 will enhance safety on East Tremont Avenue. And $4 million will fund a third phase of safety improvements on the Grand Concourse. "I am gratified to see federal funding dedicated to ensuring that Bronx streets are safe for pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicles," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "Some of these awards will build on projects that we had been funding in recent years, while others are new projects. All of them are needed, and will help to reduce the number of accidents and injuries on the streets of our community. Since the State had a role in choosing these projects, we in the Bronx thank Governor Cuomo and his staff for recognizing that Bronx streets need these improvements.” “Strengthening vital infrastructure across the State is critically important to ensuring the safety of our communities, both today and for future generations,” Governor Andrew Cuomo said in announcing awards around the State. “With these projects we are providing modern safety improvements that benefit everyone on the road, from drivers to bicyclists and pedestrians. Working alongside our partners in the federal government, our administration will continue to upgrade essential transportation networks in every corner of the State in order to make our communities safer for all.” The funds came from $79.3 million given to New York State through the federal Highway Safety Improvement Program. Details of the Bronx awards are below: $900,000 for a New York City project to improve pedestrian and bicycle safety on Bruckner Boulevard between Bronx River Avenue and East 132nd Street in the Bronx by establishing a north/south pedestrian and bicycle corridor. $800,000 for a New York City project to enhance safety on East Tremont Avenue in Bronx County. Improvements will include shortening crossing distances by widening and installing pedestrian islands, clarifying traffic patterns at complex intersections, studying signal timing for potential phasing changes and new signals, and installing traffic calming markings by narrowing the wide moving lanes and adding center buffer marking, along the corridor. $4 million for the third phase of a New York City project to improve safety on the Grand Concourse between East 171st Street and East 175th Street in the Bronx. The project will resurface main roads and extensively reconstruct service roads and medians. It also will add a series of medians and other enhancements, including raised medians, pedestrian refuges, bicycle lane buffers and bollards. ###
06.09.2014	Washington, DC – June 9, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that two provisions he inserted into the annual Defense Appropriations bill will force the Department of Defense to submit reports of the plan for the final clean up on the islands, and also a full listing of the types of explosives used over the years, and what remains. Long an advocate for the full restoration of Vieques and Culebra, Congressman Serrano felt the clean up was falling behind schedule, that information was lacking, and that full accountability on both was needed. "While I am glad this legislative language will move the clean up forward, I am disheartened that it continues to take Congressional action to ensure the Defense Department complies with its promises," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "The areas used by the military in Vieques and Culebra suffered extreme environmental degradation in their years as Defense Department property. Since the agreement was reached to restore them and return them to a state of environmental health, Puerto Ricans have waited for an expected date when the work will be over. I hope that through this legislative language we might have a final plan and end date. “I also believe that the report on the type and quantity of ordnance used, and an estimate of what remains to be cleaned up, will give us a better idea of what risks there might be and what has been dealt with. This is particularly important in terms of potential health risks. We must know what explosives and chemicals islanders were exposed to, and what risks those pose for current and future health issues. “I do thank the Defense Department for their efforts thus far, and I believe that we actually have the same goal. I am certain they want to turn over an environment that is restored and poses no ongoing risk to residents and visitors. We all can work together for that goal and look forward to a day in the not-too-distant future when it is achieved." The report language contained in the report accompanying the FY 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill is as follows: The Committee remains concerned about the pace of environmental restoration on the islands of Vieques and Culebra. Therefore, the Committee directs the Secretary of the Navy, in coordination with the Secretary of the Army, to submit a report to the congressional defense committees not later than 60 days after the enactment of this Act detailing a plan and schedule for the completion of the clean-up of the contaminated areas of Vieques and Culebra. The Committee also notes that there are gaps in information about types and amounts of ordnance used on Vieques and Culebra and potential links between such ordnance used and present threats to public health. The Committee further directs the Secretary of the Navy, in coordination with the Secretary of the Army, to submit a report to the congressional defense committees not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act that details the types of weapons deployed on these islands, as well as the estimated level of use of these types of ordnance at these two sites. Finally, the Committee also urges the Secretary of Defense to make the relevant documents available to the public. ###
06.02.2014	The Bronx – June 2, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Hunts Point-focused Penn Olin Rebuild by Design team had been awarded $20 million in federal funds for their project to ensure storm-resiliency, coastline protection for the peninsula. The goal of the project is to use innovative and collaborative methods to protect the businesses, residences and infrastructure of Hunts Point against future storms like Hurricane Sandy. Serrano was one of the key Bronx elected officials advocating that this project be funded through the Rebuild by Design program, which weighed projects all across the areas hit by Hurricane Sandy. "I was so pleased to see federal funding flowing to the Rebuild by Design team in Hunts Point and was glad to have played a role in making it happen," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "The team successfully made the case that the key infrastructure in the Hunts Point Peninsula, including the various food markets, cannot be left unprotected in the face of the next major storm. They argued that we cannot wait until this area suffers damage to make the necessary changes in order to make it safe. I was glad to be part of the team advocating for this and look forward to working to ensure the plan they develop gets all the necessary resources moving forward." "The Rebuild by Design program is one example of the innovative work that the federal government is doing with the Hurricane Sandy recovery. We cannot simply build back what was there before, but must move towards a more resilient and sustainable city and region. I have worked to ensure that the Hurricane Sandy recovery money is allocated in a smart, forward-looking manner. Today’s award shows that my work has paid off as one of the most forward-looking proposals has been given significant federal funds. As we work towards a sustainable and safe future for the Bronx, we all have a role to play and today’s funding announcement shows that the federal government continues to play a key role in moving the Bronx forward .” The Penn/Olin team that worked on the Hunts Point Plan submitted bold and innovative plans that would address many of the identified deficiencies and ensure a stronger posture against future storms, flooding and other natural disasters. Details of their proposal can be seen here http://www.rebuildbydesign.org/project/hunts-point-lifelines/ ###
05.28.2014	Washington, DC —Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the passing of renowned poet and author Dr. Maya Angelou: “I am saddened to hear of the passing Maya Angelou,” said Congressman Serrano. “She was one of the great voices for change in our country and ranked among our best and brightest. From her literary works on the black experience and womanhood, to her involvement during the civil rights movement, our nation was educated and deeply moved by her work. With grace, eloquence, and tenacity she rose above the adversity of her youth and became an inspiration to so many people. She contributed a tremendous amount to the arts and culture in New York and around the nation. On behalf of the Bronx, I extend my deepest sympathy and prayers to her family. Today we have lost a phenomenal woman. May she rest in peace.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
05.23.2014	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano today applauded the Senate passage of legislation awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to honor the service and legacy of the “Borinqueneers” or 65th Infantry Regiment of the U.S. Army. Having passed both chambers of Congress, all that remains is for the President to sign the bill. The House passed the bill unanimously earlier this week and Congressman Serrano spoke on the floor in favor of it. A video of Congressman Serrano’s speech on this bill can be seen here: http://youtu.be/EM8kRxvFf1s “I applaud the Senate for swiftly passing the bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to the Borinqueneers,” said Congressman Serrano. “I believe the bill moved so quickly because the Congress agreed with us that the Borinqueneers were long overdue for this honor in recognition of their extraordinary service. We recognized their valor in defense of our nation and also the trailblazing they did in ensuring equal treatment for Hispanic people in our country. I look forward to the ceremony where we award this medal to the unit and finally complete this process of recognizing some of the bravest patriots of our community and nation.” ###
05.19.2014	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano helped to pass legislation, H.R. 1726, awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to honor the service and legacy of the “Borinqueneers” or 65th Infantry Regiment of the U.S. Army. The regiment, which was the last segregated unit composed primarily of Hispanic soldiers, was noted for its bravery and service—particularly in the Korean War. The bill, co-authored by Puerto Rico’s Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi, passed the House unanimously and now will await action by the Senate. A video of Congressman Serrano’s speech on this bill can be seen here: http://youtu.be/EM8kRxvFf1s “Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted to award the highest Congressional honor to the Borinqueneers,” said Congressman Serrano. “I was proud to speak in favor of this bill, and to help my friend Pedro Pierluisi pass it. The Borinqueneers are legendary for their bravery, and this honor is overdue. The men that comprised this regiment, from its formation in 1899 until it was realigned in the 1950s, were all Hispanic, and largely Puerto Rican. They fought with valor in defense of our nation in all the wars of that time period. These soldiers often came from humble backgrounds, but they all understood that they were fighting for something larger than themselves: they were fighting for the democratic ideals on which our nation is built.” During the Korean War, soldiers in the 65th Infantry earned a total of nine Distinguished Service Crosses, about 250 Silver Stars, over 600 Bronze Stars, and more than 2,700 Purple Hearts. “Today the U.S. House took an important step in honoring a unit within the Army that helped the larger public to understand the need for equality for all citizens. The racial ideas that plagued our country often were built on fallacies, and what better way to strike them down than to serve with distinction and honor. The Borinqueneers showed the depth of patriotism of the Hispanic American in times when this wasn’t always appreciated. For that service we owe them a deep debt of gratitude that not even this Congressional Gold Medal can fully convey.” On March 18, 2014, President Obama granted Master Sergeant Juan E. Negrón Martínez (who served with the 65th Infantry Regiment) the Medal of Honor, which is the Nation’s highest award for military valor, for courageous actions taken in Korea on April 28, 1951. “Today I say to the Borinqueneers that your service is appreciated and your trailblazing for Latinos has been a source of pride and admiration. We thank you for all you did, and for all that you represented. With the Medal, we honor you in the best way the Congress is able—but the real honor is out in our nation, where Latinos are accepted for who they are and what they can be.” ###
05.09.2014	Washington, DC — On Thursday, the House Appropriations Committee debated the fiscal year 2015 Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill. As part of that process, three important amendments proposed by Congressman Serrano were included in the final product that passed out of Committee. “I thank the majority and minority for including these important provisions in the bill passed by this Committee,” said Congressman Serrano. “With these amendments, we are helping to improve justice for some of our most vulnerable citizens and ensure that our voices are heard in the 2020 Census. I’m glad that my colleagues agree that these amendments will help improve the bill. While I don’t agree with everything in this legislation, and there are areas where we must simply do better, these amendments have helped improve the product coming out of the Appropriations Committee. I believe we will have other opportunities to improve this bill as it moves through the legislative process.” Congressman Serrano is a member of the CJS subcommittee. The bill funds the Department of Justice, the Department of Commerce, the Census Bureau, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the Legal Services Corporation, among other agencies. ###
05.07.2014	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the kidnappings of nearly 300 Nigerian girls and young women by the militant and terrorist organization, Boko Haram. “As a father and grandfather, I join in the revulsion and horror that people around the world feel at the news of the kidnappings of schoolgirls and young women in Nigeria,” said Congressman Serrano. “I can only imagine the anguish and pain their families are experiencing. I stand with leaders around the world in denouncing this vile crime.” “I am strongly supportive of President Obama’s recent decision to send an assembly of specialists to work with the Nigerian government to find these victims and return them to their families. The global community cannot idly stand by and watch these tragedies unfold. Terrorism must meet with a swift and unified response from world actors. “I hope all the missing girls will be found and quickly reunited with their families. I also hope the Nigerian government is able to put an end to this terrorism, and to bring the guilty parties to justice. “I would like to extend my deepest sympathy to the affected families, and loved ones. My thoughts and prayers are with them during this difficult time.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
05.06.2014	Washington, DC —Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement in celebration of National Teacher Day, which is a part of National Teachers Appreciation Week. National Teachers Appreciation Week was established in 1985 to highlight the vital role that educators play in our communities. “When I look back on the way my life has unfolded, I am deeply grateful for the positive influence that educators had,” said Congressman Serrano. “I am especially appreciative of the teachers that I had during junior high and high school in the Bronx who encouraged me to move forward and helped me to flourish. Without their influence, I would not have become the person that I am, because I would not have had the education I have, but more importantly I wouldn’t have believed in myself. Educators like them are still working very hard in the Bronx, and hopefully inspiring the next generation of leaders, public servants, scholars and more.” “In my 20s, I worked in schools as a paraprofessional. During that time, I witnessed the day-to-day triumphs and challenges of teaching. I continue to be impressed by the individuals who dedicate their careers to work in our school systems with our children. As we continue to try to improve our schools so that our children can thrive, we owe a debt of gratitude to the hardworking teachers.” “So, today on National Teacher Day, I would like to thank all of the dedicated teachers and educators for all they do to provide our children and communities with quality education. Often they hear too much criticism and not enough praise. Today, we say to them: We appreciate your hard work and dedication to our children.” ###
05.01.2014	Washington, DC – May 1, 2014 – In a follow up to the millions in health grants that Congressman José E. Serrano announced last week, today he announced that Bronx-focused HELP/PSI and Urban Health Plan had also been awarded substantial federal grants for their work in the Bronx. HELP/PSI, which provides primary care, dental, adult day healthcare and health home services in the Bronx was granted $714,000. Urban Health Plan, which offers a vast array of services, was awarded $5.5 million for their work. "I was so pleased to see federal funding flowing to great organizations like HELP/PSI and Urban Health Plan," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "They are on the front lines fighting to bring healthcare and health equity to the Bronx. Residents who use their services are getting some of the best care right in their community. We can turn around the health statistics of the Bronx with the work of groups like HELP/PSI, Urban Health Plan and their partnership with the federal government." "The renewal of HELP/PSI’s federally qualified health center designation and grant in a competitive process allows us to continue providing thousands of New Yorkers with healthcare and demonstrates the strength of our partnership with HRSA and the community,” said Paul Vitale, President and CEO of HELP/PSI. “Our programs and services are specially designed to bring the most vulnerable, underserved and at-risk into our comprehensive integrated care, an approach that increases overall health while reducing costs to the healthcare system. With our flagship location in The Bronx, Congressman Serrano is an essential partner and we are forever grateful for his unwavering support.” “The renewal of this competitive grant is a testament to the work that Urban Health Plan does to ensure that Bronx residents receive the quality care they deserve. As we celebrate our 40th year of service to the Bronx community we are proud to provide a wide array of patient-centered primary and specialty health care services at more than eighteen clinic and program sites throughout the Bronx and Queens,” said Paloma Hernanez, President and CEO of Urban Health Plan. “Community health centers like Urban Health Plan have long been recognized for the critical role they play providing access to quality primary health care services and cost savings to the health care delivery system. In addition, they have an economic effect on communities by creating jobs and fueling additional economic activity. Congressman Serrano understands this and that is why he supports the work of community health centers.” The grant were awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration as part of the Health Center Cluster competitive grant program. These grants, which go to community health centers around the nation, to “improve the health of the Nation's underserved communities and vulnerable populations by ensuring access to comprehensive, culturally competent, quality primary health care services.” ###
04.25.2014	Washington, DC – April 25, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that two Bronx health care providers had been awarded more than $5.6 million in federal assistance for their services to Bronx residents. The two providers, Bronx Community Health Network and Bronx-Lebanon Integrated Services System, were awarded expanded funding as a result of the Affordable Care Act. "These grants will continue to ensure the availability of affordable health care to Bronx residents," said Congressman José E. Serrano. "Both of these organizations have done such important work in expanding access to affordable health services in our borough, and these grants will allow them to do even more to help our neighborhoods. This is another wonderful example of the important investments that the federal government is making in the Bronx, and of the impact that the Affordable Care Act is having." "We are pleased to be able to facilitate access to affordable, quality care for 106,000 patients at 15 community and school-based health centers and to assist Bronx residents in navigating the health care system, especially the many benefits of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)," said Eleanor Larrier, the CEO of Bronx Community Health Network. "We appreciate the unwavering support of Congressman Serrano and our elected representatives." "ACA funding is vital to the improvement of accessible, culturally competent, quality health care and reduction of avoidable healthcare utilization," said Saudah Muhammad, the Executive Director of Bronx-Lebanon Integrated Services System (BLISS). "BLISS’s will continue efforts to improve the health status of the community and reduce preventable healthcare utilization. BLISS, in association with FQHC sub-recipients, MLK and Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, currently provides comprehensive primary and specialty health services. HRSA’s ACA funding provided BLISS with an opportunity to improve access to primary and specialty health services to address the unmet health needs and persistent health disparities in the Bronx. Due to high levels of poverty and shortages of culturally competent primary care and specialty health professionals in the neighborhoods of south and central Bronx, BLISS’s service area is designated by HRSA as a Health Professional Shortage Area. Many of the patients seen by BLISS not only suffer from chronic diseases, and are unable or unwilling to utilize the healthcare system." The grants were awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services as part of funding provided by the fiscal year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act. The grants will be used to improve health care services to Bronx residents, to identify and enroll eligible individuals in public health insurance plans, and to ensure that Bronx residents are able to live healthier lives. ###
04.21.2014	New Rep. Serrano Ordered Report Comes on Heels of Previous Report Showing Nationwide Problems with USPS Sales Process New York, NY – April 21, 2014 – Today, the Office of the Inspector General for the United States Postal Service released a report detailing several problems with current United States Postal Service (USPS) historic preservation policies. The report finds that the USPS does not know how many historic properties it owns, how much it spends on preservation activities, and that they do not provide public access to all of their preservation policies. It also recommends that the USPS work with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) to develop a transparent, comprehensive, and uniform policy to better follow its obligations under federal historic preservation laws. These findings come on the heels of a separate report by the ACHP, which calls on the USPS to halt all sales of historic properties until the Postal Service has adequately implemented numerous recommended changes to their historic preservation policies. Both reports were ordered by Congressman Serrano. "The IG report details the level of dysfunction at the Postal Service regarding their responsibilities under federal historic preservation law and their own internal policies," Congressman Serrano said. “It also shows the important need for the Postal Service to collaborate with outside organizations, like the ACHP, to develop a more comprehensive, transparent process that will properly preserve their historic properties. This report, along with one issued last week by the ACHP, shows a fatally flawed sales process by an organization that does not understand the importance of these buildings to the communities they are located in. We cannot continue to let the Postal Service sell off public properties without adhering to the law or to their own policies. The Postal Service should suspend all sales of historic properties immediately until they are able to implement all recommendations from both reports." The full report issued by the IG is available here. The report issued last week by the ACHP is available here. ###
04.17.2014	Rep. Serrano Ordered ACHP Report Which Details Nationwide Problems with USPS Sales Process New York, NY – April 17, 2014 – Today the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) issued a scathing report on the actions and processes employed by the United States Postal Service (USPS) in selling off their inventory of historic post offices across the country, and made several recommendations to improve the process. One of key recommendations of the report, which was mandated by Congressman José E. Serrano in a recent appropriations bill, called on the USPS to halt all sales of historic properties until the Postal Service has adequately implemented the recommendations in the report. “The United States Postal Service is not in compliance with their legal obligations in its sales of historic properties, and this report demonstrates that huge problems exist in their policies and procedures,” Congressman Serrano said. “I commend the ACHP for this report, and believe that their recommendations will remedy many of these problems. I join my voice to that of the ACHP in calling for an immediate halt in sales of historic Post Offices until the USPS is able to implement these recommendations, and fully and transparently comply with the law. Nationwide, the USPS is raffling off our national heritage in the form of priceless historic properties and causing real damage to the communities that they serve by not allowing the public to control the outcome of a sale of an asset that ultimately belongs to them. This willy-nilly process is makes mockery of their obligations a custodians of beautiful and historic properties that belong to the American public. It must end immediately.” The key recommendation of the ACHP report said: “The USPS should suspend any further actions to relocate services out of historic postal facilities and dispose of these historic facilities until such time as it fully implements the recommendations of this report.” “The Postal Service has been told time and again that their current actions are inadequate, but have refused to listen, said Serrano. “I urge them to comply with the recommendations in this report, but in the meantime, I plan to introduce legislation that will ensure that no further historic postal facilities are sold until we can be sure the USPS has indeed implemented the recommendations of this report, and is following the law.” There have been reports from across the nation of sales of historic Post Offices in processes which leave little room for public input or community consultation—often resulting in the historic buildings ending up in private hands. One organization tracking the sales has found scores of them across the nation, and details a disturbing picture of legal and historic preservation obligations being unmet by the Postal Service. http://www.savethepostoffice.com/post-topics/historic-post-offices Next week, the US Postal Service Office of Inspector General will issue a further report on this subject, which is expected to continue to make the case that the USPS has a flawed process for accounting for and disposing of historic properties. Congressman Serrano also ordered the USPS Office of Inspector General’s report. ###
04.15.2014	New commitment, while voluntary, is a step in the right direction New York, NY – April 15, 2014 – Just two months after Congressman José E. Serrano introduced legislation in the House to require smartphone manufacturers and cell phone service providers to allow consumers access to a “kill switch” on all devices, the CTIA announced that various wireless carriers would commit to making this technology available to consumers. Allowing a kill switch will deter the rising number of cell phone thefts by giving consumers the ability to wipe their phone data, render the device useless on any network, and make it unable to be reactivated or reprogrammed if stolen by criminals. “Today’s announcement from the industry group representing the wireless carriers is an important step forward,” Congressman Serrano said. “The growing problem of cell phone theft has cost consumers billions of dollars and caused real harm. I am gratified that the industry has seen fit to follow the model laid out in the Smartphone Theft Prevention Act, and will take action to end this problem. I urge them to go further and automatically install kill switches on all smartphones, to more quickly implement this feature, and to ensure all carriers and manufacturers include it.” In late February, Congressman Serrano unveiled The Smartphone Theft Prevention Act, H.R. 4065, at an event with New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and NYPD Commissioner Bratton. The Federal Communications Commission estimates that more than 30 percent of all robberies today involve smartphones. In New York City, cell phone theft has grown 40 percent in the past year, and now makes up 20 percent of all robberies in New York City. Cell phones are typically stolen for resale in both domestic and international black markets, but can also be stolen in order to try and access a consumer's personal information. Unfortunately, sometimes these crimes can turn violent, with tragic results. ###
03.26.2014	Washington, DC – March 26, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced he had signed the discharge petition which would force the House to take a vote on the Senate’s comprehensive immigration reform bill. House Republicans are currently preventing a vote on the bipartisan bill, and this parliamentary maneuver would end their obstruction. “As I signed the discharge petition to force a vote on comprehensive immigration reform, I thought about the more than 11 million undocumented who so desperately need a chance at full citizenship. I thought about the citizen children, who live under threat of a parent’s deportation. I thought about the millions of people who just ask for a dignified life in our nation. They deserve this vote and an end to these political games. “The majority of people in the nation favor a pathway to citizenship through immigration reform. And yet House Republicans, who are fearful of the most extreme elements in their party, continue to block the legislation from even coming for a vote. I call on those Republicans who say that they support comprehensive immigration reform to step up and sign the petition. We can make this happen. “There are enough votes in the house to pass the bill if only they allow a vote. I am ready to vote YES and free millions of people from a life of fear and concern. The time is now!” ###
03.20.2014	The Bronx, NY – March 20, 2014 – Last night, Congressman José E. Serrano was a guest at an innovative event designed to showcase local culinary talent and resources, and also to bring awareness to the post-Hurricane Sandy “Rebuild by Design” competition. The Rebuild by Design competition is an initiative started by the Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force and the Department of Housing and Urban Development focused on creating solutions to problems exposed by Hurricane in New York, New Jersey, and elsewhere. Hunts Point is one of 10 finalists in a process that will “identify and develop viable infrastructure strategies for protecting Hunts Point from extreme weather events.” The “Slam Bake” cooking competition highlighted local talent and the food supplies that come through the vital food markets at Hunts Point, which could be devastated by a future storm. “The Slam Bake and Rebuild by Design competitions showed a local community that is engaged, active, and aware,” said Congressman Serrano. “The Slam Bake was a huge success—it showed off the skills of our local chefs, and the great produce, fish, and meats available through the Hunts Point markets. I was very impressed by the great food these folks produced. “Meanwhile the other focus of the evening was on the competition that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development sponsored, where teams developed plans to address weaknesses in infrastructure that could become a problem in future storms like Hurricane Sandy. One team focused on Hunts Point and presented their findings and their plans on the vulnerabilities of the neighborhood and potential fixes that could and should be made. “As we dealt with allocation of Hurricane Sandy recovery funding, I fought to ensure that this money made its way to our community, and had a defined local impact. This program is a direct result of that process. We have so much critical infrastructure here in Hunts Point, like the meat, fish, and produce markets, and we must begin to seriously consider plans that will protect us, our food sources, and our community at large in the future.” The Rebuild by Design process draws together experts from various field including planning, design, engineering, and science to study the environmental and structural vulnerabilities that were exposed through Hurricane Sandy, and challenges them to develop tangible, fundable solutions to these problems so that impacted areas can be protected from future catastrophe. http://www.rebuildbydesign.org/ ###
03.20.2014	The Bronx, NY – March 20, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement after learning of the passing of legendary Bronx community leader Sister Thomas, S.C. : “I am saddened to hear of the passing of Sister Thomas, one of the most beloved members of our Bronx community. As a Catholic nun her faith in God and in our community could move mountains. She was involved in every aspect of community life, serving on boards, feeding the hungry, helping to build and find housing for the homeless and giving of herself to all members of our community. To me, she was a special friend of many years. Whenever she saw me there was that warm hug and wonderful smile. Some of our greatest conversations took place as we walked together in many Good Friday processions in the South Bronx. After Mass on Sundays she was always there to ask me about my work and about my family. During the year, she would send me 4 or 5 notes to tell me that she was always praying for me and never to lose hope. She was a special person that I will miss dearly. Our community has lost a great person and we will miss her forever. Rest in Peace my dear friend.” ###
03.06.2014	The Bronx, NY – March 6, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano praised New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio's decision to end the city's lawsuit against Local Law 71, which expands prohibited racial profiling by law enforcement, and allows individuals to bring lawsuits in state courts to stop these practices. "I applaud the Mayor's decision yesterday to drop this unnecessary and harmful lawsuit," said Congressman Serrano. "Last year the City Council took appropriate action to help curb racial profiling. The legislation gives New York City residents additional tools to limit troubling and unconstitutional practices, like 'stop and frisk.' We simply do not need to violate constitutional rights in order to protect public safety. Dropping the lawsuit is an important step in changing these practices."
03.03.2014	New York, NY – March 3, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined with New York State Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman and New York Police Department Commissioner William J. Bratton to announce new legislation recently introduced by Serrano that would require smartphone manufacturers and cell phone service providers to allow consumers access to a “kill switch” on all devices. The Smartphone Theft Prevention Act, H.R. 4065, would deter the rising number of cell phone thefts by giving consumers the ability to wipe their phone data, render the device useless on any network, and make it unable to be reactivated or reprogrammed if stolen by criminals. The bill is a vital consumer protection measure that will stem the rapid increase in crime surrounding smartphones. The legislation was discussed at an event featuring Congressman Serrano and Attorney General Schneiderman, as well as NYPD Commissioner Bratton, who announced his intention to join the Secure Our Smartphones Initiative. They were joined by Richard Aborn, the President of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City, and the family of Megan Boken, who was killed during a smartphone robbery in 2012. “Cell phone theft is growing quickly across the country, and unfortunately smartphone manufacturers and carriers have not done enough to ensure the safety and security of their customers," said Congressman Serrano. "This legislation enables consumers to protect themselves by rendering their devices useless in the hands of criminals and reducing the incentive to commit these crimes in the first place. The Smartphone Theft Prevention Act is a vital step forward that will help people in The Bronx and across the nation.” “Since last May, the Secure Our Smartphones Initiative has challenged carriers and manufacturers to install technology that would end the epidemic of violent smartphone thefts. I applaud Congressman Serrano for bringing this to the floor of the House and putting the smartphone industry on notice: Because the industry dragged its feet, Congress is poised to act on legislation that will put consumers ahead of profits,” said Attorney General Schneiderman. “I also want to thank Commissioner Bratton for his decades of service and welcome him to the Initiative, which is helping to make our communities more secure and save lives.” The Federal Communications Commission estimates that more than 30 percent of all robberies today involve smartphones. In New York City, cell phone theft has grown 40 percent in the past year, and now makes up 20 percent of all robberies in New York City. Cell phones are typically stolen for resale in both domestic and international black markets, but can also be stolen in order to try and access a consumer's personal information. Unfortunately, sometimes these crimes can turn violent, with tragic results. "Today, cell phone theft is an unfortunately lucrative crime. By having a kill switch on all smartphones, we will empower consumers to help protect themselves and their personal information. I thank New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman for his leadership on this issue, and I look forward to working with him to move this bill through the legislative process." H.R. 4065 is the House companion to S. 2032, recently introduced in the Senate by Senator Amy Klobuchar. ###
02.28.2014	The Bronx, NY – February 28, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he had joined with several Congressional Democratic colleagues in their effort to bring dedicated federal funding and programming to community gardens across the nation using the AmeriCorps Program. Serrano became a original cosponsor of H.R. 4084, the “Community Gardening and Nutrition Act of 2014,” which would develop a new program to support community gardens. The bill, introduced by Rep. Alcee Hastings, is a bold federal effort to support community gardens and locally-based nutrition. “Community gardens are an important educational and nutritional resource in the Bronx and other urban centers across the nation. They are also hugely popular among neighborhood residents,” said Congressman Serrano. “Across the country, they give communities a place to grow food, to get access to healthy fruits and vegetables, to learn, to connect with nature and with one another, and to get away from urban life. Our community has embraced them for years, and now I will be working to have the federal government get further involved in funding and supporting programs that benefit these great community resources.” The Community Gardens and Nutrition Act of 2014 would establish a Community Gardens Pilot Program within AmeriCorps Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA), and would required VISTA volunteers to develop at least 40 initiatives in both urban and rural areas suffering from high rates of poverty. These initiatives would create new community gardens, as well as support and expand existing ones. The Community Gardens Pilot Program would emphasize community involvement, create new sources of healthy food, and teach basic nutrition. “I believe this is the sort of community building that the federal government should be in the business of supporting,” added Serrano. “The benefits are so many, and the cost is so little. More importantly, our communities want help with their community garden resources, and what better partner in that effort could there be than AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers. I look forward to recruiting many more allies to support this bill and hope to see it passed in the near future."
02.11.2014	The Bronx, NY – February 11, 2014 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano applauded BronxWorks, an organization in his community that changes lives and assists those in need with a variety of services. Serrano recently helped BronxWorks with a federal grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development for their work, which will bring $1 million to the organization. “BronxWorks is precisely the type of organization that our federal government must support,” said Congressman Serrano. “The good work done in our community cannot be replaced and its impact cannot be understated. They are a keystone in the network of non-governmental organizations providing services to the homeless and underserved populations in the Bronx. I was extremely proud to be able to help them with their HUD grant, which, being worth $1 million, is of great importance to the organization, and by extension, our community. I salute BronxWorks for all they are doing in our borough, and look forward to working with them to help people in need for years to come.” “BronxWorks has reduced street homelessness in the borough by 72% since 2005. HUD funding has been critical to this achievement,” said Eileen Torres, interim Executive Director of BronxWorks. “HUD supports our Living Room homeless drop-in center, a 24 hour, seven day a week facility where homeless individuals can spend the night, use the laundry and showers, eat meals, and receive medical treatment and other services. The Living Room is an important component in our comprehensive services to help people transition from life on the streets to permanent housing.” The accomplishments of BronxWorks in 2012 alone illustrate the vast array of services that they offer that change lives in the Bronx. http://bronxworks.org/accomplishments Among them, in 2012 BronxWorks: ·Served 350,000 meals to seniors, children, teens, chronically ill people, and homeless adults. ·Placed 161 previously homeless single adults into permanent or transitional housing ·120 previously homeless persons received supportive housing services at The Brook ·Provided temporary housing for approximately 350 families with about 1,000 persons ·Provided early learning opportunities for approximately 165 children, enabling them to develop the skills necessary for success in kindergarten and throughout the educational pipeline ·After-school, summer camp, and school violence prevention programs served 500 children ages 5-12 ·Helped 125 high school seniors get into college with $1.1 million in grants and scholarships ·260 adults enrolled in ESOL and citizenship classes ·Conducted 200 workshops on HIV/AIDS for 4,400 people
02.07.2014	The Bronx, NY – February 7, 2014 – In the wake of Speaker John Boehner’s remarks yesterday casting doubt on House Republicans allowing immigration reform to come to a vote in 2014, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his profound disappointment and his outrage at the tactic. “When Senate Republicans have already voted for a comprehensive immigration reform bill, I fail to see why House Republicans are yet again saying they cannot pass a bill this year,” said Congressman Serrano. “There seems to be an endless number of excuses by Republicans for why they cannot vote on any legislation that would fix our broken immigration system. If Speaker Boehner would simply stare down the Tea Party faction in his caucus and bring the Senate bill to a vote, it would pass with a huge bipartisan majority and be signed into law in a matter of days. Those are the facts. Everything else is a shameful political show that divides families and hurts our nation. “People across this country have waited many long years for a comprehensive immigration solution. It is heartbreaking to think of the suffering that is experienced by children and families each day that the Republicans stall. All the pieces are in place. They must ignore the Tea Party, who will never be in agreement with any reform package, and move forward. The nation deserves better than months or years more of inaction. Families deserve better. Children deserve better. No more delays. It is time to bring the comprehensive immigration reform bill to a vote in the House.” ###
01.31.2014	The Bronx – December 18, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the actions taken yesterday by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission (LPC) to landmark the interior of the historic Bronx General Post Office (GPO). "It is so gratifying to have the Landmarks Preservation Commission protect what we in the community know is a precious and fragile asset. The interior of the Bronx General Post Office is a breathtaking example of Depression era public art. The murals by Ben Shahn were a gift to the people of the Bronx and New York City, and were always meant to be part of the public fabric of the community. Today we learned that that gift will be preserved in perpetuity, which is deeply important. "Prior to this designation, the United States Postal Service had threatened to close the facilities entirely, and sell the building to the highest bidder with little regard for the historic value of these murals. I, along with many others in the community, advocated for action by the Landmarks Preservation Commission, writing multiple letters and raising community awareness of the threat posed to the murals by the US Postal Service's plan to sell the building. Our community quickly mobilized to support the preservation of the interior of the building and they, along with the LPC, deserve credit for this victory. "I continue to believe that the Postal Service has engaged in a faulty process in their attempt to close the post office at the Bronx GPO and sell the building - one that has not fully engaged the community or ensured that the historic features of the building are preserved. Yesterday's actions are a big step forward in responding to the concerns raised by the community. However, the public can only enjoy these murals if the facility remains open to them. I believe that were the Postal Service to truly engage with the community on this issue, they would learn that the best way to ensure public access would be to keep the building open as a postal facility. "Earlier this year, I inserted language in an annual spending bill to help ensure that the USPS respects the law, and its own regulations, regarding the disposal of historic properties. There are many post offices across the country that need protection, and concerns about the Postal Service's efforts in this area extend far beyond the Bronx. The USPS holds these public resources in trust for the true owners--the American people. I understand that the USPS has significant financial challenges but they are still custodians of many national treasures that cannot be sold off without obeying the laws that govern these historic structures. I believe these efforts will help the USPS to remember to protect these assets first- rather than just trying to protect their bottom line." ###
01.31.2014	The Bronx, NY – January 31, 2014 – Today Congressman José E. Serrano reminded working individuals and families to see if they are eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) during the approaching tax filing season. “I know that many working families in the Bronx and elsewhere have a hard time covering the basic necessities for themselves and their children,” said Congressman Serrano. “The EITC is an important opportunity for individuals and families who had an income of less than $51, 567 last year. They should claim this tax credit which is designed to help working families make ends meet.” “Each year, millions of individuals nationwide miss out on this important program because they are unsure of their eligibility, or are concerned about a seemingly complicated process. However, there are many free resources that will provide you with the tax help you need to help you claim the EITC. In the Bronx, there are a number of locations where volunteers will help you claim the EITC, and to file your taxes for free." For more information on these locations, please visit http://www.nyc.gov/html/ofe/html/policy_and_programs/freetaxsite.shtml or www.irs.gov/Individuals/Free-Tax-Return-Preparation-for-You-by-Volunteers. You can also call 311 for more information. Individuals should come prepared to a volunteer site with the following: A valid driver's license or other photo id card Social security cards, a Social Security number (SSN) verification letter or the Individual Taxpayer Identifying Number (ITIN) for all persons listed on the return Birth dates for all persons listed on return All income statements: Forms W-2 and 1099, Social Security, unemployment, and other statements, such as pensions, stocks, interest and any documents showing taxes withheld All records of expenses, such as tuition, mortgage interest, or real estate taxes Copies of last year's state and federal tax returns, if available Bank routing numbers and account numbers to direct deposit any refund Dependent child care information: name and address of who you paid and either the caretaker's SSN or other tax identification number Both spouses to sign forms to e-file (electronically file) a joint tax return ###
01.29.2014	Washington, DC – January 29, 2014 – Congressman José E. Serrano today voted against a bill containing a further $8.6 billion in cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance (SNAP) benefit formulas. These cuts, which come on top of reductions from last fall, would especially hit New Yorkers, as they are targeted at people living in states that benefit from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. “I was saddened to see a bill that will hurt vulnerable and struggling families pass the House,” said Congressman Serrano. “I voted no, and urged my colleagues to do the same. The bill was called a ‘compromise’ – since House Republicans had initially wanted to cut SNAP by $40 billion. Even as that number was reduced in the final bill, I could not support legislation that cuts benefits to people struggling to get by. “I was particularly distressed by the bill’s proposition that certain states -- those where home heating is expensive in the winter -- would see their benefits cut more than other states. I find that ‘compromise’ unfair and unequal. “More galling than anything else was the fact that the food assistance cuts enacted in this bill were not matched by any cuts to the farm programs, which often benefit wealthy farmers. Surely we can do better than this. “Today was a sad day in the House of Representatives, as yet again we saw Republicans leading the way in cutting programs that help families who are trying to make ends meet.”
01.28.2014	Washington, DC – January 28, 2014 – Congressman José E. Serrano reacted this evening to President Obama’s State of the Union address, saying the speech “hit the mark” and “issued a challenge to the Congress to help people with jobs and economic growth.” “The President hit many key points that matter deeply to the American people,” said Congressman Serrano. “His focus on economic opportunity and rewarding work were spot on. I was particularly gratified by his announcement that he would raise the minimum wage for federal contractors. Working people should not need to seek public assistance, because jobs should pay a living wage. The President was right to challenge Congress yet again to raise the minimum wage for all workers. “Our nation has slipped into a situation where so many people feel insecure about their economic prospects that the allies of big business can easily bully people into thinking that raising wages and benefits would somehow hurt workers. Nothing could be further from the truth. Many studies have shown that raising worker’s pay does not kill jobs, but in fact increases productivity, decreases turnover, and causes large benefits for the economy as a whole. I was glad that the President took this issue head on. “I also agree with the President that 2014 should be a year of action. For much of his presidency, Congressional Republicans have done everything in their power to obstruct him and his agenda, even when they privately agree that particular actions need to be taken. They have opposed and obstructed ideas that came from the right wing initially, like the structure of Obamacare. The country is tired of gridlock and eager for Congress and the President to make progress on a variety of issues in order to move America forward. “One such issue that is particularly important to me is immigration reform. I have worked for comprehensive immigration reform for many years now. I am heartened to see that Republicans in the House are finally agreeing to take up the issue, but I am profoundly saddened at their insistence that there be no pathway to citizenship. I cannot see how, in a nation of immigrants and their descendants, the Republicans can claim that the doors should be closed on citizenship to the most recent arrivals. It flies in the face of everything our nation stands for. Immigration reform must contain a pathway to citizenship. “I believe the President gave a very persuasive and important speech tonight. It sounded all the right notes and left the door wide open to compromise and bipartisanship in pursuit of economic and social progress. I hope the Republicans can put aside their entrenched ideology and work with the President and Congressional Democrats to move our nation forward. The American people deserve no less.” ###
01.19.2014	The Bronx, NY – January 19, 2014 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in commemoration of Monday’s holiday, which honors the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. “As we reflect on Dr. King’s contributions to this nation, we should focus on his courage, humility and persistence. Throughout his life he showed courage in the face of injustice, he showed humility by serving others, and he showed the persistence to move forward despite challenges and setbacks. “While significant gains have been made since the Civil Rights era, I am sure that if Dr. King would have been alive today, he would be motivated work to change our current state of affairs. The Supreme Court’s decision to strike down parts of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, legislation which Dr. King fought for, is one example of a steady erosion of the civil rights era legacy. We must fight to undo that decision and also keep the fight up on all the other fronts. We cannot backslide towards inequality. “We also cannot to turn a blind eye to the need for immigration reform, economic justice, and achieving equality for all. We must make progress. On his holiday, we should celebrate Dr. King by moving forward on the path of justice and equality. ###
01.14.2014	Washington, DC – January 14, 2014 – Congressman José E. Serrano explained today that multiple provisions included in the omnibus appropriations bill unveiled last night urged the U.S. Postal Service to halt sales of historic post office buildings. One provision tells the USPS to wait on sales until after the release of a pending Inspector General report on their legality. The other provision directs the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation to issue a report on ensure the USPS follows the law in its sales of historic properties. The Inspector General report, requested by Rep. Serrano, will also examine whether the USPS is following applicable historic preservation laws in their historic building sales procedures and whether they have solicited sufficient public input in this process. Many feel that the laws have been skirted in these sales. “The language in the omnibus appropriations bill is clear: the USPS needs to put sales of historic Post Offices on hold while we wait to see what the Inspector General’s report and the ACHP reports say,” said Congressman Serrano. “I believe that these sales have been conducted in a manner that does not fully comply with federal historic preservation laws. I understand the USPS has a serious revenue problem and is trying desperately to bring costs in line with outlays, but selling off historic properties to the highest bidder without following the appropriate procedures is completely unacceptable. I expect the USPS to immediately halt all pending sales and comply with the legislative language included in the omnibus bill.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is Ranking Member of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the federal payment to the United States Postal Service.
01.08.2014	Washington, DC – January 8, 2014 – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the election of Councilwoman Melissa Mark-Viverito to the Speakership of the New York City Council. “Today we saw history made as my friend and colleague Melissa Mark-Viverito was elected the first Latina Speaker of the New York City Council. She will be an outstanding leader for the whole City, showing all New Yorkers what it means to have a powerful, liberal, proud Puerto Rican fighting for them. She will not hesitate to do what is right and what is just and will ensure that the body she leads will seek to lift people up and help them achieve a better life. Our City will be a better place for her service as Speaker and I salute her on this historic achievement.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.02.2013	The Bronx – December 2, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement in the wake of the tragic Metro North derailment this weekend. “On behalf of my community, I would like to extend condolences to the families who lost loved ones in the Metro North derailment yesterday, and our wishes for a speedy recovery to those who were injured. Our hearts went out the victims and their families as we learned the details of the tragedy. “Our commitment to them is to ensure that in the wake of this horrific event, we will support any and all measures to make certain that this sort of accident is not repeated. In these times of tight budgets we must make the investments in infrastructure that keep people safe. The American people have a right to feel safe and secure as they use our transportation network.” ###
11.26.2013	Washington, DC – November 26, 2013 – In the wake of new report on hunger in New York City released by the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, Congressman José E. Serrano again called for reversing recent food stamp cuts and refraining from further cuts in the program. The data show a surge in hunger and food insecurity over the past several years. “For years now, we have been saying that there is a hunger crisis unfolding in our City and today we have hard data to prove that we were right,” said Congressman Serrano. “Hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition are increasing and, despite their hard work, local food pantries cannot fill the gap created by cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.” “I have repeatedly voted against cuts to SNAP, and spoken out about the real and sustained harm they are doing. Today, however, the time has come to change the tune. We cannot simply fight the SNAP cuts but rather must treat this as an emergency for all levels of government. “Today, I join with local and state officials and advocates in calling for immediate action on this problem. I will continue to do everything I can at the federal level, and believe that they will do whatever they can at the local and state level. It will take a coordinated push from all levels of government to address this increase in hunger. “Unfortunately, because of the implacable resistance we see to SNAP funding from the Republicans in Washington, we need emergency action from state and local governments. It is shameful and wrong that Republicans in Washington would cause such a need—especially on an issue like hungry children and families—but it is the reality we are faced with.” Last month, Serrano led a letter addressed to Farm Bill conferees and signed by nine Members from New York City opposing the House’s proposal to cut SNAP by $40 billion and the Senate’s proposal to limit coordination between SNAP and the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Acknowledging that Latinos are disproportionately affected by cuts to nutrition assistance, in June, Serrano led a letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, signed by 12 Latino Members of Congress, opposing an earlier iteration of the House Farm Bill, which cut SNAP by $20 billion. Serrano is also the sponsor of H.R. 208, the Anti-Hunger Empowerment Act of 2013, which would create the Beyond the Soup Kitchen pilot program to award grants to community-based nonprofit anti-hunger organizations, as well as eliminate SNAP fingerprinting requirements, which have been proven to deter families from applying for SNAP benefits. In New York City, more than 1.9 million residents rely on SNAP benefits and yet a Senate proposal currently under consideration would disproportionately affect New York City SNAP recipients. S.954, the Agriculture Reform, Food, and Jobs Act of 2013, includes cuts which target SNAP recipients in federally subsidized housing – including the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) – who receive assistance from the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), known as “heat and eat.” Additionally, House Republicans proposals for SNAP contain a total of $40 billion in cuts over 10 years, which would lead to approximately 2.8 million people losing SNAP benefits. “The time has come for emergency action,” Serrano reiterated. “There is a hunger crisis in our communities and it will take action across the board to address it. Again I call on House Republicans to drop their demands for harsh cuts to SNAP benefits and instead to work with us to ensure the program is able to meet the demand we see in our nation. No one should go hungry in a nation with such abundance.” ###
11.22.2013	Washington, DC —Today, Congressman Serrano released his letter to those participating in A Caminar Por Oscar, a march in support of the pardon and release of Oscar Lopez Rivera. The march is taking place in San Juan on Saturday, November 23rd and is organized by the Pro Human Rights Committee of Puerto Rico (CPDHPR) and the 32 x Oscar organization. The full text of the letter, in Spanish and in English, is below: Queridos Amigos y Amigas: Quiero darles las gracias por todo lo que ustedes están haciendo para obtener la liberación de Oscar López Rivera. Aunque no puedo estar con ustedes en el día de hoy, sepan que estoy con ustedes en espíritu. La prolongada encarcelación de Oscar López Rivera es injusta. Por eso, junto a mis amigos y compañeros Luis Gutiérrez, Nydia Velázquez y Pedro Pierluisi, he trabajado incansablemente para lograr su excarcelación. Esto es un asunto que trasciende fronteras políticas. Los puertorriqueños, tanto en Puerto Rico como en los 50 estados de la Unión, queremos la liberación de Oscar. Aunque en algunas ocasiones podemos tener diferencias en otros asuntos, esta causa nos une a todos. Oscar López Rivera ha estado en prisión por más de 32 años y eso es más que suficiente. El Presidente de los Estados Unidos tiene el poder de conmutar la sentencia de Oscar López Rivera. Pero depende de todos nosotros el asegurarnos que el Presidente escuche a las millones de personas que quieren la libertad para Oscar. Es por esta razón que este evento en el día de hoy es tan importante. Mis compañeros en el Congreso y yo continuaremos la lucha en Washington, D.C. para asegurar que Oscar López Rivera pueda regresar pronto a Puerto Rico. Gracias a todos ustedes por su dedicación y trabajo para hacer esta meta una verdadera realidad. Sinceramente, José E. Serrano Member of Congress Dear Friends, I wanted to write to you to thank you for what you are doing to work for the release of Oscar López Rivera. Although I could not be with you in person today, please know that I am with you in spirit. The continued imprisonment of Oscar López Rivera is both unfair and unjust. That is why I, along with my friends and colleagues Luis Gutiérrez, Nydia Velázquez, and Pedro Pierluisi, have worked tirelessly to push for his release. This is an issue that crosses political boundaries. All Puerto Ricans, both in Puerto Rico and in the Diaspora, agree that Oscar. Although we sometimes disagree on other issues, this is a cause that unites us all. Oscar López Rivera has been in prison for more than 32 years- that is long enough. The President of the United States has the power to commute the sentence of Oscar López Rivera. It is up to all of us to ensure that he hears from the millions of people who support freedom for Oscar. That is why today's event is so important. My colleagues and I will continue to advocate in Washington, DC to ensure that Oscar López Riviera is able to return to Puerto Rico soon. I thank you all for working to make that goal a reality. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the most senior Puerto Rican Member of Congress.
11.10.2013	The Bronx, NY —Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on Veterans Day, which is observed on Monday: “On Veterans Day we celebrate the brave women and men who have served our country as a part of the armed forces. I am proud to honor the commitment and sacrifices they have made to keep this nation safe. “Every day, veterans are returning home to their families and communities hoping to transition back into civilian life. In these tough economic times, they deserve stable jobs, access to affordable education and healthcare, and the ability to support their families. Just as these men and women sacrificed on our behalf, it is now our duty to lend them our support. “We cannot forget those who lost their lives or were injured in the line of duty. Their sacrifice deserves our respect, admiration, and gratitude every day. These individuals gave everything in service to their nation, and we must continue to remember and honor their sacrifice. “I am grateful to all of our servicemen and servicewomen, past and present. They are protect our nation, and they deserve our utmost respect.” ###
11.08.2013	The Bronx, NY —Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that two grants, which together total more than $1.1 million, had been awarded to expand community health centers in the Bronx. The Morris Heights Health Center received a $379,167 grant, while La Casa de Salud in Longwood received $812,500. The grants will run for a total of five years and come from the Affordable Care Act, which is also known as Obamacare. “Expanding community health centers is a key building block for the Affordable Care Act, because it gives new health care options to people in traditionally underserved areas,” said Congressman Serrano. “We know that many people struggle with health issues in the Bronx, and access to good quality, affordable care is vital to improving and saving lives in our community. The ACA will provide this access through these centers, through the new health care exchanges and through Medicaid and tax benefits. “I salute Morris Heights Health Center and La Casa de Salud for all they are doing to help people access needed care. Without their hard work, many people would simply go without important health services. I am glad to know that their work will be supported and expanded by the federal government through these grants.” The grants came through the Health and Human Services Department, which distributed more than $150 million in Affordable Care Act funding to community health centers around the nation in these most recent grant awards. HHS said in a press release about the competitive grant program that “Community health centers work to improve access to comprehensive, culturally competent, quality primary health care services. Community health centers play an especially important role in delivering health care services in communities with historically high uninsurance rates.” ###
11.08.2013	The Bronx, NY –Congressman José E. Serrano and Congressman Eliot Engel today headlined an event at the Food Bank for New York City, at which they called for a reversal of the recent cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and to preserve benefits for going forward. “SNAP is a critical and proven poverty-reduction program for our nation's most vulnerable Americans,” said Congressman Serrano. “In a rich nation like ours, it is shameful to think first that we have hungry people but also to think that we might cut programs that help people buy food. These cuts are harmful and unnecessary, especially when rich folks continue to have tax breaks and subsidies. Taking food out of the mouths of children in order to preserve tax breaks for the rich is not fair and is not right. I salute the anti-hunger leaders here today, and all those that are working so hard to keep food on the table of those most in need. Their work is invaluable, but cannot substitute for a robust and well-funded federal SNAP program. It is imperative that we reverse these harmful cuts and keep people from going hungry.” Congressman Eliot Engel, who was named a Congressional conferee to negotiate the final draft of the Farm Bill, said, “I strongly oppose cuts to SNAP, and find it a moral outrage to gut this program when so many Americans are still recovering from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. More than 47 million Americans are going hungry because of these cuts. Now 22 million children, and their parents, 9 million seniors and people with disabilities, and 1 million veterans will have to make do with only $1.40 to spend per meal. As the Conference Committee meets, I will continue to support the changes proposed by the Senate version of the Farm Bill that authorizes a higher level of funding for our needy families. It is disgraceful that we would allow 47 million Americans, including 3.2 million New Yorkers, to go hungry while we raise farm price supports.” According to the U.S. Census Bureau, SNAP lifted 4 million people out of poverty in 2012. Moreover, approximately two-thirds of SNAP recipients are children, elderly, or disabled. And, despite assumptions to the contrary, most SNAP families with children that include at least one working-age, non-disabled adult are working households. In New York City, more than 1.9 million residents rely on SNAP benefits and yet a Senate proposal currently under consideration would disproportionately affect New York City SNAP recipients. S.954, the Agriculture Reform, Food, and Jobs Act of 2013, includes cuts which target SNAP recipients in federally subsidized housing – including the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) – who receive assistance from the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), known as “heat and eat.” This proposal would have a harmful effect on New York City public housing residents, who represent 40% of the families that would lose more than $90 a month under this proposal. Additionally, House Republicans proposals for SNAP contain a total of $40 billion in cuts over 10 years, which would lead to approximately 2.8 million people losing SNAP benefits. ###
11.08.2013	The Bronx, NY –Congressman José E. Serrano and Congressman Eliot Engel today headlined an event at the Food Bank for New York City, at which they called for a reversal of the recent cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and to preserve benefits for going forward. “SNAP is a critical and proven poverty-reduction program for our nation's most vulnerable Americans,” said Congressman Serrano. “In a rich nation like ours, it is shameful to think first that we have hungry people but also to think that we might cut programs that help people buy food. These cuts are harmful and unnecessary, especially when rich folks continue to have tax breaks and subsidies. Taking food out of the mouths of children in order to preserve tax breaks for the rich is not fair and is not right. I salute the anti-hunger leaders here today, and all those that are working so hard to keep food on the table of those most in need. Their work is invaluable, but cannot substitute for a robust and well-funded federal SNAP program. It is imperative that we reverse these harmful cuts and keep people from going hungry.” Congressman Eliot Engel, who was named a Congressional conferee to negotiate the final draft of the Farm Bill, said, “I strongly oppose cuts to SNAP, and find it a moral outrage to gut this program when so many Americans are still recovering from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. More than 47 million Americans are going hungry because of these cuts. Now 22 million children, and their parents, 9 million seniors and people with disabilities, and 1 million veterans will have to make do with only $1.40 to spend per meal. As the Conference Committee meets, I will continue to support the changes proposed by the Senate version of the Farm Bill that authorizes a higher level of funding for our needy families. It is disgraceful that we would allow 47 million Americans, including 3.2 million New Yorkers, to go hungry while we raise farm price supports.” According to the U.S. Census Bureau, SNAP lifted 4 million people out of poverty in 2012. Moreover, approximately two-thirds of SNAP recipients are children, elderly, or disabled. And, despite assumptions to the contrary, most SNAP families with children that include at least one working-age, non-disabled adult are working households. In New York City, more than 1.9 million residents rely on SNAP benefits and yet a Senate proposal currently under consideration would disproportionately affect New York City SNAP recipients. S.954, the Agriculture Reform, Food, and Jobs Act of 2013, includes cuts which target SNAP recipients in federally subsidized housing – including the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) – who receive assistance from the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), known as “heat and eat.” This proposal would have a harmful effect on New York City public housing residents, who represent 40% of the families that would lose more than $90 a month under this proposal. Additionally, House Republicans proposals for SNAP contain a total of $40 billion in cuts over 10 years, which would lead to approximately 2.8 million people losing SNAP benefits. ###
10.30.2013	Washington, DC —Congressman José E. Serrano led a letter signed by 10 New York City Members of Congress urging a rejection of a series of proposed cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which will cause further hunger and suffering in New York City and around the country. The letter was sent to congressional conferees working to reconcile the Senate and House versions of the Farm Bill, which contains the SNAP program. “I’m outraged at the apathy some in Congress are showing regarding the SNAP benefit reductions,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “With record numbers of people in need of nutrition assistance, we cannot cut benefits. People are struggling and cuts will only increase hunger and suffering. I was proud to lead my fellow New York City Members in sending this letter to urge the conferees not to cut the SNAP program.” The full text of the letter, including signatories is below. As Members of the Congressional Delegation from New York City, we write on behalf of the millions of Americans that we represent to oppose the proposed cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) contained in H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 as well as a Senate proposal to limit SNAP and Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) coordination. As you conference the Farm Bill, we urge you to reconsider these drastic cuts to SNAP, which would have devastating effects on thousands of families in New York City and millions of families nationwide. SNAP is a critical and proven poverty-reduction program for our nation's most vulnerable Americans. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, SNAP lifted 4 million people out of poverty in 2012. Moreover, approximately two-thirds of SNAP recipients are children, elderly, or disabled. Additionally, despite assumptions to the contrary, most SNAP families with children that include at least one working-age, non-disabled adult are working households. In New York City, more than 1.9 million residents rely on SNAP benefits. The $40 billion of cuts proposed in H.R. 2642 would result in an estimated loss of 100-131 million meals in New York City in the first year alone. We urge the conference committee to reject these drastic cuts. We are also extremely concerned by a Senate proposal that would disproportionately affect New York City SNAP recipients. S.954, the Agriculture Reform, Food, and Jobs Act of 2013, includes cuts which target SNAP recipients in federally subsidized housing – including the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) – who receive assistance from the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), known as “heat and eat.” This proposal would have a harmful effect on New York City public housing residents, who represent 40% of the families that would lose more than $90 a month under this proposal. We also urge you to reject this proposal as conference negotiations proceed. We would find it difficult to support a Farm Bill that would increase food hardship in New York City and across the nation. SNAP is a critical program that should be maintained at a time when Americans are recovering from the recession. >Sincerely, José E. Serrano Yvette D. Clarke Joseph Crowley Steve Israel Hakeem Jeffries Carolyn Maloney Gregory W. Meeks Grace Meng Jerrold Nadler Charles Rangel ###
10.25.2013	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. testdoc1.docQuisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra.testdoc2.docAenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Video of Stars &amp;amp; Stripes Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Video of ◄ Lincoln Memorial, Washington [HD] ► Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis.
10.18.2013	The Bronx, NY —Congressman José E. Serrano joined the Bronx in mourning the passing of the Rev. John Grange, who served for decades as parish priest at St. Jerome’s in the Mott Haven neighborhood of the Bronx. “Father Grange was my priest for many years and I personally found great inspiration in his life of service,” said Congressman Serrano. “I saw the meaning of humility and the definition of serving others. Father Grange was one of the most caring and compassionate individuals I have ever encountered. He made his life’s work the ministry to those who have the least in our nation—particularly those immigrants who have only just arrived, and are beginning the climb on our economic ladder. “Father Grange understood that the people who have the least in economic terms often have the most in spiritual terms. Their enthusiasm for building a community at his parish was only outdone by his enthusiasm for building it. St. Jerome’s under his leadership was a vibrant hub for services, both social and spiritual. His Palm Sunday masses were a thing to behold as people spilled out of the church and into the courtyard. “I once said that for an Irish guy, Father Grange was the best Puerto Rican priest in the Bronx, and the best Dominican priest, and the best Mexican priest and so on. And this was true. Father Grange understood the unique situations of each of these groups, and worked to provide help that would improve their lives. “I helped him to build a “HANDS” community service center in the basement of St. Jerome’s, which has given countless people the help with skills and resources that they need to continue to move forward in our nation—whether it was English lessons, immigration help, or finishing with basic education. These services have changed so many lives, and it all came from Father Grange, who saw an unused basement and imagined a thriving community services center. “Father Grange touched so many lives and left so many people richer for the contact, and I include myself in that count. I would not be the person I am today had it not been for the guidance and friendship of Father Grange. Like the rest of the Bronx that came to know him, I will miss him greatly. But I know that he felt fulfilled and blessed by the work he accomplished in his life and passed away happy. And our borough and this world is a better place because of all he was and all he did.” ###
10.15.2013	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on National Latino Aids Awareness Day: “National Latino AIDS Awareness Day serves as a both a remembrance of those we have lost, and as a reminder of the work that remains in our community in the battle against HIV/AIDS,” said Congressman Serrano. “On this day, I am reminded of Dennis de Leon’s contributions, who was a phenomenal AIDS activist and leader. His legacy has served as an inspiration to so many people who are continuing to educate our communities.” “While there is progress to celebrate, we need to recognize there is still plenty to be done. Communities of color account for the fastest growing population of new HIV infections. This is a reality that is all too prevalent in the Latino community. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the infection rate for Latinos is three times that of their white counterparts. This sobering statistic means we must continue to work to educate at risk populations, to prevent new infections, and to treat those that are positive. “I continue to support efforts to raise awareness through education. I stand with all those great individuals and organizations who are working tirelessly to bring an end to this disease. Their efforts have saved lives. They have also helped individuals -- who face discrimination based on their HIV-positive status -- to gain access to housing, employment, medical care, and other vital services. “Far too many people are living without knowing their status. We must continue to educate ourselves and our neighbors. No one should live in silence when there are resources available. “Above all, our community must continue to fight on every front possible to reduce the infection rate, and to help those who are positive to lead healthy, dignified lives. We have made tremendous progress and cannot stop now.” For more information on AIDS/HIV, or to find your nearest testing center, please call the New York City Department of Health at 311 or visit www.nyc.gov/health. ###
10.03.2013	Washington, DC – October 3, 2013 – Yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano proudly co-sponsored the House Democrats’ newly introduced comprehensive immigration reform bill, H.R. 15, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act. “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of our new comprehensive immigration reform bill,” Congressman Serrano said. “While it is similar to the bill that passed the Senate on a bipartisan basis, it takes a more reasonable approach to border security. This bill represents an opportunity to move forward on immigration reform again after months of delay by House Republicans. The time has long since passed to move this process forward, fix our broken immigration system, and provide a path to citizenship for the hard-working immigrants in our community.” This bill: • Contains the same provisions from the bipartisan Senate-passed bill that protect our workers, unite families, and offer hardworking immigrants a pathway to citizenship. • Contains the same provisions from the bipartisan Senate-passed bill that reform our visa programs. • For those concerned with “securing our borders,” contains the provisions of the bipartisan McCaul-Thompson border security bill that received unanimous approval from the House Homeland Security Committee. “With provisions like these, I do not see what is preventing the House Republicans from bringing a bill like this to the floor for a vote. Too many families have been torn apart by our broken immigration system. Too many children have seen a parent deported. It is time to pass comprehensive immigration reform.”
10.01.2013	Washington, DC – October 1, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement today marking the beginning of open enrollment for the health insurance exchanges that the Affordable Care Act created: “Starting today, the health care reform law allows New Yorkers to access affordable, quality health insurance through the new online marketplace,” Congressman Serrano said. “While Republicans have shut down the government in order to try to ‘stop Obamacare,’ people across the country, including in the Bronx, are learning today about the new options available to them through the law. They will find that the new online marketplace provides a very simple way to get health insurance regardless of health conditions, income level, or any other factor.” The open enrollment period for the first year of the marketplaces runs from October 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014. In the marketplaces, there is no denial for pre-existing conditions, no annual or lifetime limits, and no higher rates for women compared to men. It is estimated that substantially more than half of those shopping in the new marketplaces will qualify for discounts on their monthly premium based on their income, which will make the premiums more affordable. “New York State has worked particularly hard to provide great options for New Yorkers,” Congressman Serrano added. “I know that once Bronx residents interact with the new marketplaces – whether online, on the phone, or with the help of one of the ‘navigators’ – they will find that their choices are really quite good, and quite reasonable. The first step towards this, however, is up to them. And so I urge Bronxites to get online or call the toll free number and begin the process.” New Yorkers looking for health coverage should go to https://nystateofhealth.ny.gov/ or call 1-800-318-2596, a national toll-free hotline open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. They can also call the New York hotline at 1- 855-355-5777 or TTY: 800-662-1220, which is staffed Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 8 p.m. and Saturday, 9 a.m. - 1 p.m. The website and phone hotlines are also available in Spanish at https://www.cuidadodesalud.gov/es/ and 1-800-318-2596. “There has been so much misinformation, and outright lies, about the Obamacare health care reform law, that I worry people will not take advantage of the great programs and subsidies available to them,” Congressman Serrano concluded. “Today we can start changing that situation and get people connected with real facts, and real programs. That is the reality of the Affordable Care Act—it is designed to help people access health care options. I urge New Yorkers, and Bronx residents in particular, to look into their options under the law and see their lives change for the better.” ###
09.28.2013	Washington, DC – September 28, 2013 – As House Republicans moved today to bring an anti-Obamacare government shutdown bill to the House floor, Congressman José E. Serrano said he would vote against it. Congressman Serrano decried the “deeply destructive and divisive tactics in which the party that lost an election about Obamacare tries to force their views on the rest of the nation.” “If there were a President Romney, the Republican obsession with destroying Obamacare might have a future, but there is not, and yet we see House Republicans moving to shut down the government to try to get their way” said Congressman Serrano. “I am shocked by the damage they are willing to do to the government functions, to financial markets confidence and to our system of government in pursuit of their unrealistic goal of ending Obamacare. “Our system works on the basis of compromise, not hostage-taking. It works through reasonable dialogue and through accepting the results of elections. We see the House Republicans repudiating this system and moving to one where they seek to force their views on an unwilling American people. It is deeply dysfunctional and represents a core lack of respect for our American system of checks and balances. “I will vote with my Democratic colleagues in coming hours and days against efforts to destroy Obamacare, and I will also vote against efforts to shut down the government. I do so with a heavy heart, because I feel that we’ve reached a new low. “Instead of working together to improve people’s lives, we are fighting against efforts to make people’s lives more difficult. Ending Obamacare means fewer people with healthcare and more people sick and bankrupt. This is shameful. As I vote against their efforts I ask my Republican friends to come work with us to improve our nation and to improve the laws we have. “Let’s build a better nation, not tear apart the one we have built over the centuries. Our system of government, our laws and our behavior as elected officials should reflect our best impulses as Americans. The impulses to help one another and to take care of those in need. The impulse that our nation is strongest when we work together through dialogue and compromise. I believe this is possible and will continue to work towards it. It is required of us as representatives of the American people.” ###
09.27.2013	The Bronx, NY – September 26, 2013 – At a health care forum today Congressman José E. Serrano, Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. and State Senator Gustavo Rivera urged Bronx residents to get information about the new health care options coming soon because of the Affordable Care Act. The forum, which took place at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx, brought together the elected officials along with representatives from the New York State Health Exchange Marketplace, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “Unfortunately there is great confusion in the nation, and in the community about what the Affordable Care Act does, but this forum today is a major step towards dispelling the myths,” said Congressman Serrano. “Together with Borough President Diaz and Senator Rivera, as well as St. Barnabas Hospital and the various agencies represented here today, I wanted to ensure get word out to the community that new and important benefits are coming that will help people obtain and afford quality health care. “I am proud to have taken part in this very educational forum to help Bronxites learn more about the imminent changes to our State’s health care system. It was a day of empowerment and learning where we as elected officials joined with health professionals to discuss how the Affordable Care Act will affect our health coverage and speak to Bronxites about the importance of enrolling in the New York State Health Exchange and at the same time we provided important information on the different resources available for our residents in the Borough,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. “I am very pleased that we were able to provide Bronxities with information and resources that will help them better understand the ACA enrollment process during today's forum,” said State Senator Gustavo Rivera. “There is no doubt that the implementation of the ACA will help countless Bronxities secure affordable healthcare, but it is imperative that every individual is well informed about their options and the coverage that is now available to them as we enter this new phase of the process” Several years ago, Congress passed and President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act. The law mandated comprehensive health insurance reforms. One of the key features, the Health Insurance Marketplace, opens for enrollment on October 1, 2013. It is designed to make buying health coverage easier and more affordable. Starting in 2014, the Marketplace will allow individuals and small businesses to compare health plans, get answers to questions, find out if they are eligible for tax credits for private insurance or health programs like the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and enroll in a health plan that meets their needs. Further information is available at www.healthcare.gov, http://www.nystateofhealth.ny.gov/ or by calling 1-800-318-2596. “As more people are connected with health benefits, we all will benefit in so many ways, as the rates go down on insurance, as hospital emergency rooms begin to deal with only real emergencies and not routine care, as people lead healthier lives free of worry, and as we see lives saved,” Congressman Serrano added. “These are the real effects of the law, and this why it is so important to get people connected with the benefits of it. I look forward to continuing the partnership with all those helping at the forum today, because that is how we will move our community and country forward towards a future with health security for all people.” ###
09.19.2013	Washington, DC – September 19, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano today denounced the harsh funding cuts for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program that House Republicans voted to enact. Serrano voted against the bill along with Democratic colleagues. “Cutting $40 billion in food stamps while refusing to cut agricultural subsidies to millionaires is unconscionable,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “The cuts to the SNAP program represent one of the cruelest visions of government that we have seen in generations. People are suffering in this economy, and one of the principal lifelines that we extend to them is food and nutrition assistance. Cutting back on that assistance will leave people without food and without hope. I find that idea repugnant and repulsive. Currently, 47 million people rely on SNAP. Over 92% of people on SNAP are children, the elderly, disabled, or working families below the poverty line. SNAP recipients currently receive $1.40 per meal. Despite these facts, the GOP bill will cut off food benefits from nearly 4 million Americans next year, doing particular harm to children, seniors, veterans, Native Americans, and Americans living in communities with high unemployment. This bill comes at a time when one in five children (16 million) struggle with hunger, a record-high. SNAP is a proven poverty-reduction program, lifting 4 million people out of poverty in 2012. “When you consider the facts of the situation—the record numbers of people in need—this effort to cut SNAP becomes legislatively immoral. I stand with my community in saying that these cuts are wrong. I stand as their representative in voting NO on this shameful bill. We cannot take food from the mouths of the least among us. That is not the way that our nation has acted in the past, and not the way we should act now.” ###
09.17.2013	Federal Funds Would be Used to Help With Naturalization Process The Bronx, NY – September 17, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that the Highbridge Community Life Center had been awarded $250,000 to help legal permanent residents with the naturalization process. The grant came through U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. “I am so pleased that a Bronx organization with a track record like the Highbridge Community Life Center has been awarded federal money to help Bronx residents pursue citizenship,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “Too often people who are moving through the immigration system feel confused, overwhelmed and lost. This sort of hands-on programming will help them navigate the system. I can’t think of a better use of federal funding. “I cannot miss the opportunity to say that it’s time for comprehensive immigration reform in Washington. If a good immigration reform bill were passed, it would mean that there would be thousands of newly eligible residents in the Bronx who would need help navigating the immigration system. The expertise and the capacity that this grant will build will prepare us for the day that we achieve comprehensive immigration reform.” “We are honored to receive funding from the Department of Homeland Security.” said Gary Calnek, Board Chair of the Highbridge Community Life Center. “The Citizenship and Service Integration grant will allow Highbridge Community Life Center to meet the growing need in our Bronx community for immigration services.” ###
09.05.2013	The Bronx, NY – September 5, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement today on the potential resolution authorizing the use of force in Syria, which the Obama Administration has asked Congress to consider. "I have grave doubts about the wisdom of involving our nation in another war in the Middle East. I cannot vote in favor of this authorization because I believe that the outcome of strikes on Syria is unpredictable, and unlikely to be in our nation’s interests. I fear setting off a chain of events which leads to American soldiers fighting and dying in the Middle East yet again, for reasons that are not clear and persuasive. “I commend President Obama for correctly bringing this issue of war before the Congress. Whether we agree or disagree with him on this issue, it is a welcome change to have a President with a deep belief in our constitutional system. “The use of chemical weapons is morally reprehensible, as is the targeting of civilians with any sort of weapons. I believe the best reaction would be a broad multilateral diplomatic response from the international community—not just an American enforcement action. The world must show its outrage, not just America. “I have thought long and hard about this decision and have come to the firm conclusion that I cannot vote in favor of war. I will continue to work to find alternatives that deter the use of chemical weapons on civilians. I believe such alternatives exist and should be used.” ###
08.28.2013	The Bronx, NY – August 28, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement today in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington. "The message of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom rang out from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to the National Mall and across our nation—calling us to the high purposes of justice and equality. The truths of that day spoken by Dr. King and others still urge us on towards a better future for this great country. “The civil rights of all Americans are only guaranteed by our ongoing struggle to preserve them. We must fight on to ensure that our nation continues to move more people from the cold darkness of despair and discrimination into the warm light of justice and equality. “This is the work we were charged with on that day 50 years ago. And we will continue this struggle because in the words of Dr. King: ‘we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.’” ###
08.20.2013	Washington, DC – August 12, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that the National Science Foundation has awarded $416,953 to Fordham University for research to improve privacy online. The program is meant to improve the frequently ignored privacy statements on websites and to find ways to move towards giving users a better understanding of what they are agreeing to in these statements. "As we live more and more of our lives online, it is critical that people understand what they are giving up in terms of privacy when they sign up for an online service," said Congressman Serrano. "The copious amounts of fine print that users are currently confronted with is clearly ineffective at communicating the appropriate information to people. If users are going to make informed decisions about their privacy online they must first understand what they are agreeing to. Once people have a better understanding of what they are giving up it will be easier for them to make decisions about how much is too much and to encourage companies to change the way they use our information. "I am excited that important work striving to understand this problem and how to improve it is being done at Fordham. Fordham has a long history of research and work that improves lives in the Bronx, in New York City, and around the world. I am pleased that the National Science Foundation has recognized their important work with this grant." ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
08.14.2013	Washington, DC – Congressmen José E. Serrano and Joseph Crowley today announced that the Hunts Point Terminal Produce Market’s $10 million federal TIGER Grant for freight rail improvements had been given final approval by the U.S. Department of Transportation, greenlighting the project’s federal funding. Serrano and Crowley led congressional efforts in support of the grant application for the federal funding, highlighting the benefits of the renovations for the City and borough both in terms of jobs and in terms of environmental benefits for the surrounding community. “The Department of Transportation is making a very wise investment in a valuable project in our community,” said Congressman Serrano. “This grant will create and retain many jobs, and help to get more trucks off the road and keep them from sitting and idling for long periods of time. The Hunts Point Terminal Produce Market is a key economic driver in our City and State, and helping to ensure that they have the tools and infrastructure to compete and thrive is of utmost importance. This $10 million grant shows the support and commitment of the federal government to their future success and to the modernization of our City’s infrastructure.” “The Hunts Point Terminal Produce Market has played an integral role in New York’s economy for over 40 years and I’m thrilled its freight rail project is now ready to move forward,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx). “The approval of the Market’s federal TIGER grant is a win-win for job creation and environmental protection. Not only will this investment help the Market create hundreds of new jobs but it will help reduce air pollution by allowing the Market to get shipping trucks off of our roads. The rehabilitation of the site’s infrastructure will serve to ensure that the Market can efficiently continue providing millions of New Yorkers affordable fresh produce while supporting farmers throughout the state.” According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, the project will “enhance freight rail capacity and service at the HPTPM through the following infrastructure improvements: installing additional sorting and storage rail tracks; rehabilitating the rail spurs that serve three of the market’s warehouses, and installing a covered platform on an existing rail spur within the market to facilitate the transfer of produce from railcars to trucks. The additional tracks will add capacity for the delivery and staging of loaded railcars, as well as the storage of empty railcars before they are removed from the market. The rehabilitation of the rail spurs will restore the original elevation of the tracks so railcars align with the warehouse loading docks. The covered platform will provide an additional location where tenants can receive produce by rail, and will provide a safer, more efficient transfer of produce within the market.” Serrano and Crowley have led efforts to help the Hunts Point Market renovate and modernize its facility, including sending a letter signed by the full New York Congressional Delegation to the Department of Transportation supporting the Hunts Point Market’s grant application. ###
08.12.2013	Washington, DC – August 12, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano today issued the following statement in the wake of the decision by the Judge Shira Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, which found that the NYPD’s “stop and frisk” tactic violated constitutional rights and called for installation of a federal monitoring official. “For years now in our community the ‘stop and frisk’ tactic was cause for concern because it seemed unfair, intrusive, and potentially discriminatory” said Congressman Serrano. “Today’s ruling shows that Federal Courts agree with that assessment of the practice. Too many people minding their own business in their own neighborhoods have been treated like suspects or criminals and subjected to a humiliating search, only to be let go because they have done nothing wrong. The practice caused indignity and felt like improper harassment for law abiding citizens. “I believe that with the federal monitor in place, the NYPD can continue to carry out its effective crime fighting – which must be praised for its success in recent years – but without using this tactic. In fact, they may experience improved community relations because they are alienating fewer people, which leads to better crime fighting through tips and cooperation. “Today’s decision will end what has felt like a practice of routine invasions of privacy and restore the right to be simply left alone unless one is considered a suspect. I am sure that new strategies that respect constitutional rights will be developed, and we can put the indignities of ‘stop and frisk’ behind us. This is a big step forward for our City.” ###
08.08.2013	The Bronx, NY — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in celebration of Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the Muslim holy month Ramadan. “Today I send my warm wishes to Muslims in the Bronx and around the nation who are celebrating the Eid, at the end of this year’s Ramadan,” said Congressman Serrano. “As they spent the last month observing Ramadan, they have reflected on their faith, on unity and on service to the community.” “The dedication of the Muslim community to these values has been evident in our community. As with past groups who moved here, the Bronx has been culturally strengthened by the contributions of Muslim neighbors. “The Eid celebration is also an opportunity for us to celebrate the diversity of our nation, which is made rich by the contributions and cultures of Americans from all backgrounds. “We must continue to support our friends and family of all faith backgrounds. I am proud to represent a district that has a vibrant and growing Muslim community. “Eid Mubarak to all who are celebrating this joyous occasion.” ###
08.01.2013	Washington, DC – August 1, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano today introduced the “Financial Security Credit Act of 2013,” a bill to encourage a higher household savings rate nationwide by incentivizing savings by low- and moderate-income earners at tax time. “We know that many American households are unprepared to meet short-term and long-term financial needs, and many more feel as though they cannot save for their long term goals,” said Congressman Serrano. “This legislation will address these problems by offering an incentive for taxpayers from low- and moderate- income brackets to save their tax refunds by making deposits into any of a number of savings options. If the taxpayer contributes to an eligible savings product and maintains the savings for eight months, they will become eligible for a refundable tax credit of up to $500 directly deposited into their account. It has been proven to work in New York City, and I know that it can work nationally.” "The Financial Security Credit Act offers a proven approach to supporting the economic stability of Americans by providing meaningful and accessible onramps to building savings and I commend Congressman Serrano for introducing this important legislation," said New York City Department of Consumer Affairs Commissioner Jonathan Mintz. "New York City's SaveUSA tax time savings program demonstrated that New Yorkers with very low incomes can and will save when given the right opportunities. The Financial Security Credit will encourage savings that will help millions of Americans make meaningful progress towards improving their financial stability in the short term, and therefore starting on the path toward building longer-term savings, which are critical to stability." “The tax code should promote savings, opportunity and mobility,” said Reid Cramer, director of the Asset Building Program at the New America Foundation. “Currently the federal government spends almost $150 billion each year supporting the savings of upper-income Americans and almost nothing on the savings of low- and moderate-income families. We need policies that close the opportunity gap, not make it wider. The Financial Security Credit would help to level the playing field and give all American workers a chance to save and build financial security. The bill expands upon a proven approach that works for ordinary, hard-working families. Representative Serrano deserves credit for promoting legislation that supports savings, responsible financial behavior and greater economic opportunity.” Bob Friedman, Founder and Chairman of the Board of the Corporation for Enterprise Development (CFED), spoke out in the favor of the legislation as well. “Economic mobility is the abiding ethic of this country, but income alone is not enough to progress in the American economy,” Friedman said. “Income helps working families get by; saving helps them get ahead. While the tax code has long supported saving for the highest-income workers, Representative Serrano’s legislation will bring support to both middleclass families and those struggling to secure a foothold in the middleclass.” More than 43% of American households lack the savings to cover basic living expenses for three months if a layoff or other emergency causes a loss of their income. Without such a safety net, during financial emergencies many families are forced to rely on bad options such as expensive credit cards and exploitative payday loans. Under the legislation, if an individual is unbanked or does not have an eligible savings option, then they are provided with the opportunity to establish an account on their tax form. Individuals can contribute to any of a number of savings options, including: basic savings accounts, 529 College Savings Accounts, Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, qualified retirement plans like 401(k) and IRAs, certificates of deposit, and savings bonds. This legislation builds on the successful SaveUSA program model, which was initiated in New York City, and has expanded to San Antonio, Tulsa, and Newark, NJ through the Social Innovation Fund. These programs show that tax-filers, despite low incomes, can and will save if they have the right incentive at the right moment. Despite having average incomes of less than $18,000, program participants in New York City were able to save an average of about $550. In New York City, about 76 percent of savers held their balance for the full year, and nearly 47 percent returned to save the following year. “Establishing and maintaining savings is essential to economic mobility and financial stability,” concluded Congressman Serrano. “This legislation comes as a result of the many years of work that New York City, the New America Foundation and the Corporation for Enterprise Development have put towards this cause. They have shown that this policy helps low- and moderate- income families to safeguard themselves in case of emergency, and helps them to start building longer term savings for the future. The financial future can be a lot brighter if we help families build a safety net for themselves.” ###
07.19.2013	Washington, DC – July 19, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano was awarded a “Friend of the National Parks Award” this week for his 100% support of the National Parks through votes in the House of Representatives in the 112th Congress. A 100% rating was only earned by a handful of Members. The awards were given by the National Park Conservation Association, a non-profit group that seeks to support and bolster National Parks and the National Park Service. “I was very honored to receive this recognition for my support of the National Parks during the last Congress,” said Congressman Serrano. “To me, these votes are easy. I feel strongly that we must preserve, protect and expand our National Park system so that they can be enjoyed today and in the future. “Our National Park system was the first ever created, and remains the world’s best. It was given to us by our parents and grandparents, and in turn it falls on us to pass it on to generations to come—intact and enhanced. “So many millions of individuals and families use our National Parks for leisure and for learning that it should not be controversial to give National Parks our full support. I thank the National Parks Conservation Association for this award, and also applaud them for all they do in support of this network of national treasures. ” According to the NPCA, its “‘Friend of the National Parks Award’ was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ votes on significant park issues. This year, NPCA compiled votes for seven national park-related bills in the House.” ###
07.19.2013	Washington, DC – July 19, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that he had succeeded in including a provision in an annual appropriations bill moving through the House of Representatives that would ensure that the Postal Service’s proposed sale of the historic Bronx General Post Office receives extra scrutiny. “I feel strongly that the US Postal Service’s plan to sell the Bronx General Post Office is ill-considered, and perhaps did not follow the requirements of the laws governing such transactions,” said Congressman Serrano. “With the inclusion of this provision in the annual spending bill guiding parts of the USPS budget, Congress now shares my concerns, and we are going to ensure that all laws and guidelines have been followed. “These actions follow on the heels of an ongoing investigation--undertaken at my urging--by the Inspector General of the Postal Service into whether the Postal Service has followed all relevant laws in the sales of historic post offices, and whether they have followed those laws in the case of the Bronx General Post Office. My provision in the bill calls for the suspension of the sale of historic properties like the Bronx GPO until this investigation is complete, and all the laws and guidelines have been satisfactorily complied with. “It should go without saying that we expect the Postal Service to follow every single requirement if they are determined to sell the Bronx General Post Office. It is too important of a building to our community, especially with its historically significant murals, which were created by artist Ben Shahn in the Depression, and have been enjoyed by Bronx residents for generations. They should not be given to a private party never to be seen by the public again. “We cannot have the gems of our communities, often landmarked and protected, sold by the USPS to the top bidder in a wanton and careless manner. These properties have unique circumstances and deserve great care and thought if the USPS can truly no longer use them. I am concerned that this is not happening in the rush to reduce costs, and I am glad that my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee share this concern.” ###
07.19.2013	Washington, DC – July 19, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano and Senator José M. Serrano denounced the ongoing hate speech on social media directed at singer Marc Anthony in the wake of his performance of “God Bless America” at the Baseball All-Star Game. Marc Anthony was born in New York to Puerto Rican parents, but has been targeted by racist commenters on social media who assume he was born in a foreign place. “Marc Anthony is a great American who performed at the All Star Game and has suffered unspeakable attacks on social media from outright racists ever since,” said Congressman Serrano. “I denounce these racist comments and postings in the strongest possible terms. I feel sick to think that people would direct hate speech at a performer of any kind chosen to sing a patriotic song at a nationally televised event. Our nation should welcome all those who would sing its praises—literally or figuratively. The real unpatriotic actions are those taken by these social media racists. They do not represent the true America.” "It is disheartening to hear of the racist, hate speech that was directed towards Marc Anthony after his magnificent performance at the All Star Game," said Senator Serrano. "Marc Anthony's passion and love for this country can be felt throughout his music. Having grown up in El Barrio, one of the most culturally vibrant and diverse neighborhoods in New York, he in so many ways personifies what it means to live the American Dream. It is very important that we join together to dispel instances of hatred towards any individual and push for the acceptance of all, regardless of our differences. To do so is the true American way." ###
07.15.2013	Washington, DC – July 15, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in reaction to the verdict over the weekend in the Trayvon Martin/George Zimmerman case. “Regardless of the verdict, one fact remains: a young man who went to get Skittles and iced tea from the store is dead,” said Congressman Serrano. “We must take this opportunity to reevaluate our laws and examine our society’s prejudices. We have come a long way since the days of the civil rights movement—particularly in places like Florida—but we still have a long way to go. No child of any color should fear for his life when he walks in his own neighborhood. “I believe that there are several things that must be done. First, I support the Department of Justice’s investigation into whether civil rights laws were violated. Second, all the so-called ‘stand your ground’ laws should be repealed to prevent these sorts of situations. And lastly, we must yet again come together in a national conversation about race, racial profiling, and the prejudices that still afflict us. Until we overcome these barriers to tolerance, we will continue to have sad tragedies like this one. ” ###
07.10.2013	Washington, DC – July 10, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that five institutions in the Bronx had been awarded more than $850,000 total to help Bronx residents with enrollment in the health care options under the Affordable Care Act. The grants will be used to hire outreach and eligibility assistance workers and are part of $7.2 million awarded in New York State for the program. “The funding announced today by HRSA is precisely what the Bronx needs—coordinated and expert help for people to understand what assistance they can get from Obamacare in 2014,” said Congressman Serrano. “The institutions selected in our community have proven track records of helping people and are trusted by people in our borough. They will be excellent guides for individuals exploring the new options for health care coverage under Obamacare .” The institutions and amounts awarded are as follows: · Bronx Community Health Network -- $193,486 · Bronx Lebanon Integrated Service System -- $194,399 · Montefiore Medical Center -- $81,253 · Morris Heights Health Center -- $203,265 · Urban Health Plan Inc. -- $190,890 “And while this program, like the ‘navigators’ program, will provide personal counseling and advice to people in our neighborhood, I urge people to begin exploring their options today via the healthcare.gov website or the 24-hour-a-day call center at 1-800-318-2596,” Congressman Serrano added. “Getting educated on what the law will mean for you is the single most important step people can take at this time. Both the website and the phone line have Spanish and other languages available.” The awards, according to the administration, will complement the “navigators” program, which is funded through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. This program will also help determine an individual’s eligibility for Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program; any financial help they can get; and enroll them in new affordable health coverage options. The Department of Health and Human Services noted that “In New York, 57 health centers operating 591 sites served 1,588,439 patients last year, 23 percent of whom were uninsured. With these funds, the awardees expect to hire 133 additional workers, who will assist 137,637 New Yorkers with enrollment into affordable health insurance coverage.” “As we move towards full implementation of the Affordable Care Act, it is important that our community gets all the help possible to ensure that not a single person misses out on benefits under the law,” Congressman Serrano concluded. “We will see many people who were without health care options find that they have insurance and support. This is a huge step forward for our nation and for our community. The grants awarded today are a step in the path towards a healthier Bronx.” ###
07.10.2013	Thank you Chairman Crenshaw. This has been our first year working together on this subcommittee, and I wanted to thank you for your efforts to work with our side, and to find common ground where we can. Although we disagree from time to time, we are able to do it in a collegial manner. Unfortunately, today is one of those days where the Chairman and I must disagree. The Financial Services and General Government bill received an unbelievably inadequate allocation level that has tied the hands of Chairman Crenshaw. This bill is $4.3 billion below fiscal year 2013, a 20 percent cut. In fact, this allocation is actually $3.3 billion below the current sequestration level, and almost $7 billion below the President's request. These numbers are simply not sustainable for large parts of our government. Rather than allowing the Appropriations Committee to do its job, the Ryan budget and the lack of a solution for sequestration have hamstrung this Committee. Some people seem to believe that we can balance the budget entirely through discretionary spending cuts, and this allocation reflects that wrongheaded view. For too long, this Committee has sat silently while others limit our ability to do our jobs. That needs to end, or we will continue to mark up bills that have no chance of becoming law. As is to be expected at this funding level, many agencies are grossly underfunded. For example, the General Services Administration sustains a $2.4 billion cut from the current sequestration level. Among other things, the GSA is essentially our government's landlord, superintendent, and developer all rolled into one. These cuts will have a significant impact on our economy and on job creation, because many private sector contractors depend upon business from the federal government. At this funding level, we are missing a significant opportunity to create construction jobs and reduce government leasing costs. The SEC is funded at a level of $1.371 billion, which is more than $300 million below the President's request. The SEC has new mandates and missions as a result of both Dodd-Frank financial reform and the JOBS Act, but this committee's funding levels have not kept pace with these additional responsibilities. We have seen the result of insufficient SEC enforcement funding in the past - and I am concerned that we a just asking for a future crisis at this funding level. The Election Assistance Commission is eliminated in this bill. Even though Republicans in the Senate continue to deny confirmation votes on nominated EAC commissioners, the EAC still provides vital data and assistance to help states and localities purchase voting equipment and in modernize election administration. Instead of cutting the EAC's funding we should be giving this agency the resources it needs to do its job I am also concerned by some of the Committee's actions with regard to the District of Columbia. The DC Tuition Assistance Grant program has been cut in half, which will greatly impact the ability of District residents to attend college. Additionally, the report includes language attempting to undermine the District's vote on local budget autonomy. Lastly, I would be remiss if I did not mention the Internal Revenue Service, which sustains an extreme 30 percent cut from the President’s budget request. We all know that the IRS has been in the news lately for the wrong reasons. We also know that their inappropriate targeting efforts affected liberal and conservative groups alike. I share the majority's outrage over these improper practices, but a multi-billion dollar cut to the agency will do nothing to solve these problems. Rather than attempting to fund training and reform programs, the majority has chosen to lay off thousands of IRS employees - almost all of whom had absolutely nothing to do with this issue. This funding level is something that will make tax cheats everywhere smile. On top of these wholesale budget reductions, this bill is hindered by a plague of unnecessary and harmful riders. Let me name just a few of the more egregious. Within the Department of the Treasury, the bill includes a rider attempting to roll back our nation's 'people-to-people' Cuba travel policy, as well as a rider preventing IRS implementation of the individual mandate portion of the Affordable Care Act. The bill also includes riders attempting to limit the President's power to issue signing statements and to create executive orders. The bill attempts to undermine the ongoing Dodd-Frank implementation effort by requiring a biased report of the costs of implementation. And the bill includes two controversial abortion riders: one that prohibits plans offered through the Affordable Care Act from offering coverage for abortion services, and one that continues to prevent the District of Columbia from using its own funds to pay for abortion services. I find both of these riders to be highly objectionable, and I am troubled that we continue to restrict how the District uses its own funds in this regard. Very few, if any, of these riders are likely to survive in the end. As in past years, they simply serve political ends, and are a huge impediment to reaching reasonable agreement in the appropriations process. I know the Chairman has been put in a difficult spot by the Ryan budget and the 302(b) allocation levels. But this bill will harm not just government agencies, private contractors, and federal employees - it will harm the American people. Unfortunately, this is not a bill that I, or anyone on my side, can support. ###
07.09.2013	The Spanish version of this op-ed, which appears here below the English version, originally appeared in El-Diario. Fix the Law the Supreme Court Broke By Congressman José E. Serrano When we learned that the Supreme Court’s had struck down a key part of the Voting Rights Act this week, minority leaders across the nation spoke out with one voice in saying that this decision would harm our democracy The passage of the VRA in 1965 was one of the most important achievements of the civil rights movement. It spelled out the ways the federal government would act to ensure minorities would not be discriminated against in voting rights and access. Although originally aimed at discrimination against blacks, the law was expanded over the years to stop discrimination against Latinos and other 'language minorities.' The expansions stopped literacy tests in New York and elsewhere that kept many Latinos from exercising their right to vote. Voting rights found protection through of a key tool in the VRA. Section 4 of the act created a formula to determine whether states or counties had a history of racial discrimination in voting. If a jurisdiction met the criteria then it was required to seek approval from the Justice Department for any changes to voting laws and procedures. This federal oversight prevented legal barriers to full voting rights in these locations. But the Supreme Court struck down Section 4 on Tuesday, and with it, the oversight that had prevented voting discrimination for generations. It was a flawed decision that obliterated a huge part of the law, leaving minority voters without a key protection. We have already seen several states announce their intent to implement policies previously blocked by the Department of Justice under the VRA. The justices who wrote the opinion must not understand that many threats remain to voting rights. They must not have been paying attention in recent years as legislatures across the nation sought to pack minority communities into as few districts as possible to dilute their voting strength. They must not have seen the efforts to demand voters provide picture identification, which often causes a hardship for poor and minority voters. They must have wrongly thought that racism and voter intimidation are gone in our nation. I know these problems remain because we in Congress spent months compiling a comprehensive record of ongoing discriminatory conduct by state and local officials when we last debated the Voting Rights Act in 2006. Knowing that the behavior continued, we overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan extension of the VRA. Often people who think like these justices say things like “Since we elected a black president, how can there still be racism in our voting laws?” They should ask the people in minority communities standing for hours in line to vote, when non-minority communities often have no line at all. They should look at the behavior in border states, where Latinos fueled almost all the population growth of the past decade but were initially given no new Congressional seats. Sadly, even today discrimination in voting rights still exists. The Supreme Court left open the door for Congress to update the formula that determines which places get special scrutiny by the Justice Department. It is critical to our democracy that we do not pass up this opportunity to ensure fairness in voting for all citizens. Congress must immediately begin working to fix a law that the Supreme Court has needlessly broken. Corrijamos la ley que el Tribunal Supremo descompuso Por Congresista José E. Serrano Al enterarnos que el Tribunal Supremo derogó una parte importante de la ley de derechos electorales esta semana, conocida en inglés como el "Voting Rights Act" (VRA), los líderes nacionales de las minorías hablaron en unísono expresando que esta decisión afectaría negativamente nuestra democracia. La aprobación del VRA en el 1965 fue uno de los logros más importantes del movimiento de derechos civiles. Esta ley enumeraba las maneras en que el gobierno federal podía actuar para asegurar que las minorías pudieran ejercer su derecho al voto sin discriminación alguna. Originalmente creada para proteger los derechos de los afroamericanos, la ley fue expandida para proteger a los Latinos y otras minorías . Esta expansión eliminó los exámenes lingüísticos en Nueva York y otros lugares que le hacía imposible a los latinos votar. La sección 4 de la ley creó una fórmula para determinar que estados y jurisdicciones tenían un historial de discriminación racial en las elecciones. Si una jurisdicción cumplía con estos criterios, esta tendría que buscar aprobación del Departamento de Justicia para cambiar sus leyes o procedimientos electorales. Pero el Tribunal Supremo derogó la Sección 4 el martes, y a su vez, el mecanismo que impidió la discriminación electoral por generaciones. Esta fue una decisión errónea que eliminó una parte importante de la ley, dejando a las minorías sin protección. Ya hemos visto a varios estados anunciar su intención de implementar leyes bloqueadas previamente por el Departamento de Justicia a través del VRA. Los jueces que escribieron la opinión tienen que entender las amenazas a los derechos electorales que todavía existen. Debieron considerar como en los últimos años las legislaturas estatales han agrupado a las comunidades electorales en tan pocos distritos como puedan para diluir su poder electoral. Debieron haber visto los esfuerzos para requerir identificación con foto al votar, situación que causa problemas para los pobres y las minorías. Concluyeron, erróneamente, que el racismo y la intimidación electoral no existen en nues tra nación. Yo sé que estos problemas existen porque tan recientemente como en el 2006, durante el debate para extender el VRA, el Congreso recopiló un record exhaustivo de discriminación existente por parte de oficiales locales y estatales. Al confirmar esta información, la extensión fue aprobada abrumadoramente por ambos partidos. Muchas personas que piensan como estos jueces dicen: "¿Si nuestro presidente es afro-americano, cómo puede existir la discriminación electoral?" Debieron considerar a los residentes de comunidades minoritarias quienes hacen fila por horas para votar, mientras que en comunidades no-minoritarias no hay fila. Debieron ver el comportamiento de los estados en la frontera, en donde inicialmente no se les creó una silla en el Congreso a los latinos aunque estos fueran la razón principal del crecimiento poblacional. Es triste admitir que hoy día existe la discriminación. El Tribunal Supremo dejó la puerta abierta para que el Congreso cree una fórmula nueva para determinar qué jurisdicciones necesitan supervisión por parte del Departamento de Justicia. Es esencial para nuestra democracia que no dejemos pasar esta oportunidad para asegurar la igualdad de derechos civiles de todos nuestros ciudadanos. El Congreso debe empezar a trabajar inmediatamente para arreglar la ley de derechos electorales que el Tribunal Supremo derogó innecesariamente.
07.09.2013	Washington, DC – July 9, 2013 – Today, Congressman Serrano applauded the inclusion of $2.5 million in funding for Puerto Rico to conduct a plebiscite to resolve its status. The funding is included in the House version of the fiscal year 2014 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations bill. "This funding is an important step forward in resolving Puerto Rico's status. It is clear that the current colonial status of Puerto Rico must change, and that a majority of the Puerto Rican people feel that this unequal status cannot continue. I am pleased that the CJS subcommittee has taken a giant step forward in that process." "The inclusion of this funding is historic, and will allow Puerto Rico to conduct the first federally sponsored plebiscite on its status in the 115 years that Puerto Rico has been part of the United States. "As a member of the CJS subcommittee, I worked hard to include this funding. I'd like to thank Chairman Wolf and Ranking Member Fattah for their understanding of this issue, and for their willingness to include this important provision. I will continue to defend this funding as the bill works its way through the legislative process." The funding was originally requested in the President's fiscal year 2014 budget request. The bill will be marked up by the CJS subcommittee on Wednesday.
06.27.2013	Washington, DC – June 27, 2013 – “Today we are finally moving forward on comprehensive immigration reform,” said Congressman Serrano. “The Senate bill has many good features, and represents a compromise that Senators from both sides felt they could support. This is a very important moment, as we now know that the political coalition to support a comprehensive immigration bill exists. “For the past decade I have called for the non-punitive, comprehensive immigration reform bill that our community so desperately needs. Today we have that bill. While it is not a perfect bill, and is not the one that I would have written, it was supported by Republicans and Democrats, and shows us the pathway forward. “I call on the House to immediately take this bill up as it is written now. I believe that a strong coalition of Democrats and Republicans here in the House could pass the bill without delay. “So today we celebrate this important moment, but we know that tomorrow the real work of getting it through the House begins. We have much yet to do, but we now can take hope that a path forward exists and we will get there soon. “I believe it will not be long before all undocumented immigrants here in search of a better life, are able to come out of the shadows and begin the process of becoming full members of the American family. On that day we will truly celebrate moving our nation towards a more perfect union.” ###
06.26.2013	Washington, DC – June 26, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano celebrated the Supreme Court’s decision today to overturn section 3 of the federal “Defense of Marriage Act” which prohibited federal recognition of same sex marriage equality. The Court also ruled that people suing to end California’s recognition of same sex marriage did not have standing, allowing that state to resume recognizing marriage equality. “Here we have decisions that affirm that our gay and lesbian family and friends must have equal rights under the federal constitution,” said Congressman Serrano. “The DOMA decision is momentous and pushes the civil rights movement forward in ways that were unimaginable just a few years ago. Now our fellow gay and lesbian citizens that have been legally married in states like New York must have their legal marriages recognized in all ways by the federal government. “The Defense of Marriage Act was patently discriminatory when it was passed in the 1996. I am proud to say that I voted against it. Over the past 17 years, we have seen our country move quickly towards acceptance and tolerance for same sex marriage. Sadly, the courts and Congress have generally lagged behind, until today’s decision. “We have made enormous progress towards a goal of a society with equality and justice for all. By declining to rule on the California case, the nation’s largest state will be able to resume same sex marriages. This is very important. I commend the Court for these wise decisions. I only wish that the Congress would have simply repealed DOMA itself sooner, rather than wait for the Supreme Court to do it.” ###
06.25.2013	Washington, DC – June 25, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano announced his profound disagreement with the Supreme Court’s decision today to strike down Section 4(b) of the Voting Rights Act. “The Voting Rights Act is a key underpinning that ensures our democracy is fair, representative and that voting is free of racial discrimination. Today’s decision strikes a blow at the law, and leaves voters with less protection. As a result our democracy is weakened and minority voting strength is undermined. I believe the conservative justices have made a grave error. "By dismantling the coverage formula for the preclearance requirements of the Voting Rights Act, the Court has essentially thrown out the preclearance requirement itself. This leaves millions of minority voters at risk of discrimination in state and local voting laws, election requirements, and redistricting efforts. Congress must quickly enact a new coverage formula. “The sad fact is that there continue to be efforts to prevent people from voting based on their race or ethnicity, particularly in those areas under the preclearance formula. Congress developed a comprehensive record of this ongoing conduct when we last debated the Voting Rights Act reauthorization in 2006. That is why we overwhelmingly passed that reauthorization, with the same coverage formula. “We cannot go backwards in protecting voting rights and ensuring truly representative government. I call on the House to immediately begin working to fix a law that the Supreme Court has needlessly broken. ” ###
06.18.2013	Washington, DC – June 18, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano led his 12 of his Latino colleagues in a letter sent this week to Speaker John Boehner and Leader Nancy Pelosi expressing their deep opposition to the devastating Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program cuts contained in the Republican farm bill. The draft bill contains more than $20 billion in cuts to the program, which has seen record usage during the economic downturn. The text of the letter and a list of signers are below. “These food assistance cuts are beyond the pale,” said Congressman Serrano. “At a time when families are depending on this program to stave off hunger, eviscerating this program is deeply disturbing. Children and families in this nation of plenty should not go hungry. But if this bill passes as it is currently written, that is just what will take place, with much of the damage concentrated in minority communities. I was proud to lead my colleagues in saying that that is wrong.” *** Dear Speaker Boehner and Democratic Leader Pelosi, As Hispanic members of Congress and on behalf of the millions of Americans that we represent, we write to oppose devastating cuts, which total $20 billion, to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) contained in H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act of 2013. These benefit reductions will harm the more than 46 million low-income Americans - nearly half of whom are children - who depend on SNAP for nutrition. SNAP is a vital resource in the Latino community, where joblessness, homelessness, and food insecurity rates remain high. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, more than 25% of Latino households are food insecure. SNAP is a critical lifeline for struggling families as they juggle their other household expenses - including heat, shelter, child care, transportation, medicine, and health care. Yet H.R. 1947, which passed out of the House Agriculture Committee on May 16th, makes cuts that would reduce the SNAP benefits for 850,000 households by an average of $90 per month, would cause two million people to lose benefits entirely, and would take away free school meals from 210,000 children. We strongly oppose balancing the budget on the backs of the poorest and most vulnerable Americans. We cannot support a Farm Bill that sacrifices the well-being of hungry Americans. SNAP is a critical program that should be maintained at a time when Latinos across the country remain in considerable need. Sincerely, Rep. José E. Serrano Rep. Raúl Grijalva Rep. Tony Cárdenas Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham Rep. Gloria Negrete McLeod Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Grace Napolitano Rep. Pedro Pierluisi Rep. Loretta Sanchez Rep. Juan Vargas Rep. Filemon Vela ###
06.06.2013	Washington, DC – June 6, 2013 – After learning of the extensive government surveillance of telephone data within the United States today, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his deep discomfort with the program. “While our government clearly must take steps to prevent terrorism, I am worried that this program represents an overreach and an invasion of Americans’ right to privacy,” said Congressman Serrano. “There seems to be no constitutional basis for such broad surveillance activities. Additionally, I am particularly troubled that this program was reportedly authorized by a secret legal opinion based on a section of the Patriot Act. “Americans rightly believe that while the government must take steps to keep them safe, it should do it within the boundaries of the Constitution and clearly established law—not by using secret opinions to interpret controversial laws. “If the security agencies want authority to conduct this sort of widespread surveillance, they should come to Congress, explain the need and its uses, and let us pass updated legislation if we believe it to be appropriate. “Secret legal opinions and tortured legal logic were hallmarks of the last Administration—and actions that we had hoped were left behind as our nation moved forward. We cannot have widespread phone and data surveillance without a full and frank discussion of the proper balance between safety and Americans' civil liberties. “If we give away our rights in the pursuit of an elusive sense of safety, we have let those who would intimidate us win, because they will have changed our society from one based on openness, freedom, and rule of law to one with fewer rights and protections. We cannot let that happen.” ###
06.04.2013	Washington, DC – June 4, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano applauded a new initiative that Major League Baseball unveiled which is designed to boost Puerto Rican player development and signings. For many years, Congressman Serrano has called for action in Puerto Rico to end the decline in major leaguers produced by the island. Click here for a video of Serrano’s statement on the issue: http://youtu.be/FvVqgxw5dTg “As a baseball fanatic and a proud Puerto Rican, I have watched with increasing dismay as the numbers of Puerto Rican professional ballplayers has declined over the years,” said Congressman Serrano. “I have brought my concerns about the many causes of this issue to Major League Baseball on numerous occasions. For this reason, I was thrilled to hear in a recent meeting with representatives of Major League Baseball about the details of a new plan to invest directly in player recruitment and development in Puerto Rico. “I am glad to see them make the public announcement of the initiative today. This is correct first step in reinvigorating the pipeline of talented Puerto Rican baseball players and ensuring that those with the skills make it into the major league system for development into top level prospects and beyond. “Major League Baseball will be investing in the baseball academies, relaxing the rules on Puerto Rican prospects playing in the Venezuelan and Dominican Summer Leagues, sponsoring an island-wide top-shelf prospect league, and developing comprehensive after school instruction for elite athletes. These steps, I believe, will begin to create new pathways for top players to get the development, experience, and exposure that they need to be ready to compete with players from elsewhere in the U.S. in the draft. I continue to have doubts about Puerto Rico’s inclusion in the draft, but I believe that until we have seen if this investment makes a difference, we cannot fairly judge if it is time to discuss that issue. “Baseball is our national pastime but in Puerto Rico it is more – it is a passion. We need to ensure that Puerto Ricans get to play this sport that we all love in the numbers that reflect their passion. There is no reason that the island that produced players like Roberto Clemente, Orlando Cepeda, Roberto Alomar, Carlos Delgado, Pudge Rodriguez and so many other All-Stars should be seeing declining numbers of MLB-bound players. We cannot have the next Juan Gonzalez decide to play a different sport because the options are too limited in baseball. “Puerto Ricans have long been committed to baseball. Many Puerto Ricans were excited by Puerto Rico's march to the final of the recent World Baseball Classic. Now is the perfect opportunity to build on that excitement, and to rebuild and renew baseball's commitment to Puerto Rico. “I look forward to watching the results of this investment and hope that one result is the next Puerto Rican top draft pick, All Star or even Hall of Famer. The talent exists, it just needs to identified and ushered into the big leagues. I salute MLB for taking a pro-active stance on this issue and look forward to working with them to tweak the program to improve it as we move forward. Baseball is a passion and we cannot turn our backs on the most passionate culture of baseball under the U.S. flag.” ###
05.22.2013	Washington, DC –Congressmen José E. Serrano, Joseph Crowley and Jerrold Nadler today applauded the settlement that was announced today in a lawsuit that New York Lawyers for the Public Interest and New York Communities for Change had pursued in order to force the New York City Department of Education to speed up its replacement of PCB-laden fixtures in schools. Under the terms of the settlement, the City will complete the removal and remediation of the toxic fixtures within five years. Serrano, Crowley, and Nadler have led efforts to address the issue since the first reports of PCBs in New York City schools in 2007. “The 10 year timeframe that the City had proposed for cleaning up these toxic chemicals was contemptible, but today’s settlement will finally move the clean up process forward in an expeditious manner,” said Congressman Serrano. “We’ve said all along that no child should be exposed to PCBs during their school days. Even one day of exposure is unacceptable. Joe Crowley, Jerry Nadler and I did all we could to solve this problem from the federal level. In the end, it took a determined group of parents and a crack legal team to break the logjam that the City had created. I applaud everyone involved and know that many parents will sleep better tonight knowing that their children will be safe from chemicals at school.” “The very real dangers of harmful toxins in our classrooms make urgent action on PCBs a top priority and I’m pleased that with this settlement, the clean-up process can finally move forward,” said Congressman Crowley. “Parents should never have to question if the school where their children spend their days might actually make their children sick. That’s why Congressman Serrano, Congressman Nadler, and I made this issue a top priority and are thankful to all those determined parents and advocates who made today possible.” "I believe that we are truly seeing justice done in this settlement," said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. "The City's ten year timeframe placed hundreds of vulnerable schoolchildren and staff at risk of exposure to toxic chemicals, and was--in a word--unacceptable. As I have been saying for years, along with parents, school staff, advocates and my elected colleagues, PCBs are dangerous and must be remediated as soon as humanly possible. Thanks to the strong legal advocacy of NYLPI and White and Case, and the grassroots organizing of NYCC, the City must finally recognize the urgency of the situation and act with the necessary speed." Serrano, Crowley and Nadler have led efforts to help schools in New York City and throughout the country fund the cleanup of PCBs, particularly through efforts to allow school modernization and renovation funds to be used for cleaning up PCBs. In 2009, Crowley and Serrano secured language in the FY2010 Interior appropriations bill that instructed the EPA to study and issue recommendations for cleaning up PCB contamination in schools and in August 2011, called on the EPA for an update on these instructions to address the danger of PCBs in schools. The Members also led a New York City congressional delegation letter to the EPA asking the agency to increase oversight of New York City testing and remediation of schools for PCBs. ###
05.21.2013	Washington, DC – May 21, 2013 – After learning of the horrifying destruction and loss of life in Oklahoma yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano sent his condolences and pledged to work with colleagues to ensure a swift response. “As New York continues to clean up from Superstorm Sandy, we know the real and devastating power of mother nature. We send our thoughts and prayers to the people in Oklahoma who lost family, friends or their possessions in the tornado yesterday. They should know that we in Congress, whether from New York or Alaska are behind them, and that we will work to ensure that they are given the proper support that they deserve to clean up and rebuild. We cannot give them back their loved ones, but we can help them to reconstruct their lives and that is what we will do.” ###
05.21.2013	Washington, DC, -- May 21, 2013 – After Republicans revealed that they intended to fund all the agencies that fall under the jurisdiction of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee with a paltry $16.9 billion—down from $24.4 billion in FY2010—Ranking Member José E. Serrano called the allocation “a shameful statement of priorities.” “This funding allocation would be a joke, if the consequences weren't so serious for the American people” said Congressman Serrano. “Rather than make you laugh, it just makes you shake your head at the devastating impact of this Republican proposal. Cutting agencies by more than 30 percent from FY2010 has nothing to do with good government or responsible stewardship of the government. It means mass layoffs, huge service gaps for the American people, and essentially shuttering large parts of the government.” "There is no reasonable way to find these savings without eviscerating entire agencies. You could close the doors at the SEC, the FTC, the CPSC, the SBA, and the EAC, and still not have enough cuts to make this number work. The other alternative would be an across-the-board cut to 15 percent below sequestration levels- which would further devastate efforts to protect American consumers, prevent abuses on Wall Street, and help our small businesses. There is just no way to make this funding level work. “Consider this: In fiscal year 2013, after taking sequestration into account the agencies under this jurisdiction are funded at $19.8 billion. With furloughs and drastic cuts already taking place at that level, what possible outcomes other than mass layoffs and shuttering huge segments of these agencies could reasonably be expected? Nothing in this allocation is reasonable, and none of the decisions that it forces are grounded in an understanding of the needs of the American people. “This is a shameful way to treat the American people. They expect straight shooting from their leaders, and this is the opposite. No one can believe that this funding level makes any sense, and there’s no reason to pretend to craft a bill based on them. The American people deserve better.” The funding level proposed by the Republican majority for the Financial Services subcommittee is almost $3 billion less than the funding level in fiscal year 2013, and almost $7.2 billion less than in fiscal year 2010. The funding level is also almost $6.5 billion below the President's fiscal year 2014 request. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
05.15.2013	Washington, DC – May 15, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he is an original co-sponsor of the newly introduced “Puerto Rico Status Resolution Act,” which would give Puerto Ricans a clear choice regarding their desire to become the 51st State, in a manner free of other competing options. “Today I took the step of co-sponsoring a bill that would give Puerto Ricans a clear choice to end the current colonial status,” said Congressman Serrano. “Through this bill, Congress would ask whether Puerto Ricans wish to become the 51st State or stay as they are. I believe that this constitutionally acceptable choice is a fair question that eliminates the distractions of options that maintain the colonial relationship. This bill does not promise anything that cannot exist, and does not attempt to tip the scales. It is simple, straightforward, and clear. “I have always believed that the colonial relationship between the United States and Puerto Rico must end. I support all options that would accomplish this goal, whether that be through statehood, independence, or free association. To that end, I continue to support federal funding for Puerto Rico to conduct a plebiscite on all constitutionally viable options for resolving the status question. “I must repeat: I do not favor statehood over independence or free association. I will support any bill or process that ends the current status. But I will not, and cannot, support anything that would maintain or make permanent the colonial relationship. “I believe this bill is an honest attempt to move the status debate forward—something that has not happened since 1952. We have been arguing the same points since then. It is time to move forward and this bill is an attempt to do this. After 115 years, Puerto Rico needs to send a clear and straightforward message to Congress, and begin to unwind this unequal, colonial relationship.” ###
05.10.2013	Body text goes here. Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
05.08.2013	Washington, DC – May 8, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the Puerto Rico legislature on the introduction of several bills extending protections and rights to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Puerto Ricans. “Today Puerto Rico’s legislature took a positive step towards enacting legislation that would extend protections to our LGBT brothers and sisters,” said Congressman Serrano. “Our LGBT friends and family deserve all the rights and protections that anyone else does—and they deserve equal treatment under the law. We cannot tolerate discrimination against them, or any other marginalized group. I applaud the wisdom of the Puerto Rican legislature in deciding that it was time to take action on these issues. I know they will do the right thing by passing these bills to prevent discrimination and bigotry.” ###
05.06.2013	(New York, NY) –Today, Congressmen José E. Serrano, Jerrold Nadler and Peter King joined Chief Judge Loretta A. Preska to announce that the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Federal Courthouse has received $10.4 million in federal funds to build a new state-of-the-art security pavilion. The security pavilion was planned for shortly after 9/11 but until the intercession of the New York Congressional delegation, it had continued to wait. The project will improve security screening and also alleviate congestion. The funding came through a reprogramming of leftover and unused funds from other federal projects. “I was happy to be able to intercede on the Moynihan Courthouse’s behalf from my seat on the Appropriations Committee,” said Congressman Serrano, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the General Services Agency, which funded the project. “We know that keeping our federal buildings secure is of the utmost importance, especially one with high sensitivity trials involving national security like Moynihan. Waiting years after 9/11 was unacceptable, and my colleagues and I finally were able to convince GSA to make these vital improvements. In addition, I want to recognize the hard work of the Southern District's Chief Judge, Loretta Preska, and District Executive Ed Friedland. They educated many of us about the problem, and galvanized a search for a solution. Our federal building security must be more efficient than ever, and this pavilion will be just such a solution.” “This new security pavilion is an essential modernization of the Moynihan Courthouse that will ensure that Manhattan’s federal court is a safe space for all who use it,” said Congressman Nadler. “For the wheels of justice to operate smoothly, it is vital that our courthouses be secure. This is especially true in my district in Lower Manhattan, where we are still very much living in the shadow of 9/11. I have worked for many years on this worthy project, and I’m so pleased that our courthouse will now be properly protected. I want to thank Chief Judge Preska, Rep. Serrano, Rep. King, and GSA for their critical work in making this happen.” “As the leading terrorist target, New York’s security is essential,” said Congressman King. “I am proud to have played a part in ensuring funds for the Moynihan Federal Courthouse’s new security pavilion. It is imperative that all those who work for justice can do so in a secure environment.” The new security pavilion will become the main public entrance and will separate general public from employees, which will enhance and upgrade existing security and will better protect the public, jurors, judges, employees, attorneys, and other visitors to the courthouse. The pavilion will allow an increase in queuing and screening capacity because additional screening stations and magnetometers can be added, alleviating overcrowding. Construction will begin in October 2013 and is expected to be completed in April 2015. # # #
04.22.2013	Washington, DC – April 19, 2013 – During a budget hearing with Attorney General Eric Holder yesterday, Congressman Serrano questioned him on the $2.5 million in the President’s budget request for a plebiscite. The full exchange can be watched here: http://youtu.be/SEH6m5_BI1Q *** The following is an unofficial transcript of the exchange: Rep. Serrano: Thank you, Mr. Attorney General. I am going to make a statement and if you wish to comment on it, I would appreciate it, but If you don’t I would understand if you can’t comment at this point. You know, in 1898, Puerto Rico became a part, if you will, of the United States. In 1917, Puerto Ricans were made Americans citizens. In 1990, for what it’s worth, I became a Member of Congress and since that time and prior to that time when I knew you, . . . And all the time you’ve been Attorney General, even before that you know of my concern so, we just wanted to thank the Department for including 2.5 million dollars in funding to conduct voter education and a plebiscite to help resolve Puerto Rico’s future relationship with the United States. This funding is an important step to me and to millions of Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico and in the 50 States in defining a process that will allow Puerto Rico to truly determine the constitutional relationship that they want to have with the United States. This language is an important response to a ballot question that was on the ballot last November in Puerto Rico, whether the people of Puerto Rico wanted to remain in their current status or to change to something different. The Puerto Rican people on that day clearly voted for change. This funding is the logical next step in that process. I don’t know how the Department plans to implement its responsibilities as it moves forward through this process, but please know that you have a supporter on this initiative in this Committee. I have already spoken to the Chairman of the full Committee, to the Chairman of the Subcommittee and I think after 115 years it is time to resolve the political status of Puerto Rico. It is of great interest, as I said, to the 4 million who live on the island and to the four-plus million who live throughout the 50 states. And if you care to comment on what the process would be and what you hope to accomplish at the end, I would appreciate it. AG Holder: Well, under the budget request of, I guess, $2.5 million dollars, the responsibility for devising the expenditure plan is going to rest, as it should, with the State Election Commission. Our role is limited to reviewing the plan and determining whether it’s compatible with the Constitution and laws of the United States. But the administration is committed to the principle that political status is a matter of self-determination and the President’s budget proposal reflects his commitment to work with Congress to provide a mechanism for the people of Puerto Rico to decide their own fate. That is our view. Rep. Serrano: Well we thank you. We thank you for that comment, Mr. Attorney General and we hope that we can work together, as a nation if you will, to resolve this issue and once again I thank you for your service. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ###
04.10.2013	Washington, DC – April 10, 2013 – After reviewing the outlines of the President’s budget proposal for 2014, Congressman Serrano said it contained many positive proposals and a few negative ones. “Generally this is a very good budget, with its focus on job creation, education and investments for the future economic health of our nation,” said Congressman Serrano. “Of course, I cannot support any plan to cut Social Security benefits, especially with so many seniors relying on them as a mainstay of their financial lives.” “It always is important to compare this budget to the one that House Republicans proposed, which had draconian slashes to the government across a variety of programs all in order to preserve low taxes for the wealthy. The contrast couldn’t be clearer, and the wisdom of the President’s approach couldn’t be more reasonable. “Of the agencies and departments whose budgets come under the purview of my subcommittee, the President has proposed important investments which will ensure that our government is responsive to the needs of all Americans. I am particularly pleased that the President proposes a $1.6 billion increase for the Internal Revenue Service, which has long proven that for every dollar invested, the government gets at least four dollars in increased tax revenue. "I also support the President's requested increase for the Securities and Exchange Commission. The proposed funding level of $1.674 billion will help the agency can remain vigilant in its efforts to prevent a repeat of the last financial meltdown, and will ensure the SEC can fully implement their responsibilities under the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform bill. “I also think it is very smart to increase funding for the Legal Services Corporation, which has lost significant funding in past years, despite the increase in the number of eligible clients due to the recession. The president asks to increase their budget by more than $80 million, which would allow them to help many more people than they currently do. The President's budget also requests the removal of several restrictions on how the LSC uses funds from non-federal sources. These restrictions continue to tie the hands of local legal aid providers in ways that simply do not make sense. “I also am gratified to see that on a broad scale, the President is proposing infrastructure investments. Like him, I believe that these projects have a two-fold benefit. They create jobs and stimulate the economy in the short term, and strengthen our nation’s infrastructure for decades to come. They are very wise use of taxpayer dollars.” “Tucked into this budget proposal is an item that is very near and dear to my heart. The President has proposed $2.5 million for the Justice Department to conduct ‘objective, nonpartisan voter education’ and a federally-sponsored vote on ‘options that would resolve Puerto Rico’s future political status.’ I think this is a deeply important move towards ending Puerto Rico’s colonial status once and for all. “Finally, I am glad to see that the President has not backed down on his belief that the wealthy should not enjoy tax breaks and loopholes not available to working people. I think there should be no debate on this premise—it’s about fairness. I think with the moral imperative that everyone must pay their fair share, and the deficit reduction that such moves would enable, we should not have to debate the wisdom of this proposal and should move on it right away.” ###
04.10.2013	Washington, DC – April 10, 2013 – After reviewing the outlines of the President’s budget proposal for 2014, Congressman Serrano reacted to the inclusion of funds for a Puerto Rico status process with the following statement. “I am pleased that the President’s budget has prioritized funding for a referendum on permanent and Constitutional status options for Puerto Rico. No one should object to a process that leads to a definitive statement by the Puerto Rican people on their future status—and a process that asks them to choose among only constitutionally-viable, non-colonial options. I look forward to supporting this funding request through my seat on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science, and later seeing it implemented in a timely manner.” ###
03.18.2013	The Bronx, NY – March 18, 2013 – Congressman José E. Serrano recently sent a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe asking him to suspend the plan to sell the historic Bronx General Post Office. Congressman Serrano asked that the Postmaster General restart the public consultation process so that the community’s wishes are taken into account, provide a detailed plan so that the historically significant elements of the building can be preserved, and present a strategy so that mail service is unaffected. The text of the letter is below. *** March 15, 2013 Mr. Patrick Donahoe Postmaster General 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW Washington, D.C. 20260 Dear Postmaster General Donahoe: I write to urge the immediate suspension of the Postal Service's announced intent to sell the historic Bronx General Post Office (GPO) building located at 588 Grand Concourse in the Bronx. The Postal Service has not adequately considered public input, has not detailed a sufficient process to preserve this historic landmark, and has no specific plans to maintain service in the community. As you know, the Bronx GPO has been a landmark in our community since its completion in 1937. Over the years it has been a Post Office, a processing facility, and community meeting place. Since the announcement of the Postal Service's intent to sell the Bronx GPO, I have heard numerous complaints about various aspects of the proposed sale, all of which I believe indicate that the current process is fatally flawed. I have outlined at least three objections that I have heard from members of the Bronx community: Lack of Community Input: There appear to be numerous deficiencies with the Postal Service's process for announcing and soliciting community input about the proposed sale of the Bronx GPO. Relevant stakeholders were provided with little to no notice about a public meeting, thus giving them inadequate opportunity to provide input. Moreover, the meeting took place on Wednesday, February 6, at 10:00 am, which meant that many interested parties were unable to attend. Lastly, the notice of the 30 day comment period was only provided to those individuals attending the meeting- thus foreclosing another avenue for the public to provide their views on this proposed sale. Historic Value: The Bronx GPO is on the historic building in the Bronx, and is both a City Landmark and on the National Register of Historic Places. However, neither designation currently protects the lobby area, where a series of artistically significant murals, collectively entitled Resources in America, are located. Moreover, there has been no indication that the Postal Service intends to follow the requirements of Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA). I believe the current proposal does not provide sufficient protection to these historic artworks by Ben Shahn, and I am concerned that the public could lose access to these works or worse still a future owner could damage or destroy these valuable murals without a more rigorous review process. Service Maintenance: While there is apparently a comprehensive plan in place to sell the Bronx GPO, there is little to no plan in place to replace the services currently provided by the location. Other than a vague promise that there will be a new postal location opened in the neighborhood, there does not appear to have been any steps taken to open that new location. Moreover, there appears to have been no discussion with the community of their needs in choosing a new location. Lastly, almost no consideration has been given to maintaining the level of service in the current location, the Bronx General Post Office. I believe that these concerns indicate serious problems involved in the current process being used to consider the sale of the Bronx GPO. I hope that you will take these concerns seriously, and rethink your strategy. Rather than moving forward with a fatally flawed sales process, the Postal Service should take the time to truly solicit the advice of the Bronx community, to fully comply with its obligations under Section 106 of the NHPA, and to ensure that no harm is done to this historically significant property in any proposal. If, after a true consultative process, the Postal Service still decides to put the building up for sale, then there must be a serious proposal to ensure that the historic murals in the building are preserved, and that service in the neighborhood does not suffer. I can assure you that should the decision be made to proceed with the sale without adequate public input and consideration of the above concerns, I will continue to oppose this process. Thank you for your consideration of these issues, and I look forward to the Postal Service addressing these concerns by providing a truly participatory process surrounding the future of the historic Bronx GPO. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
03.13.2013	Washington, DC – March 13, 2013 – At a hearing today on water infrastructure financing, Congressman José E. Serrano questioned the Environmental Protection Agency on their plans for Hurricane Sandy restoration. The Deputy Assistant Administrator at the Office of Water, Mike Shapiro, laid out the variety of ways that the EPA is contributing to the rebuilding effort and how they are ensuring the reconstruction does not just rebuild the same vulnerable infrastructure again. “The waterways and shorelines of the tri-state region were severely impacted by Hurricane Sandy. Rebuilding efforts are just getting underway, and it’s important that we do it in the smartest and most cost effective way possible,” said Congressman Serrano. “I was pleased to hear from the EPA that they see the restoration and rebuilding from Hurricane Sandy as an opportunity to use green infrastructure projects not just to filter and cleanse runoff but also to protect and secure communities against future storms.” Mr. Shapiro responded to Congressman Serrano’s questioning by saying that while FEMA has primary responsibility for guiding and paying for rebuilding infrastructure to its previous levels, the EPA has been granted funding and authority to help in the enhancing the infrastructure and making it more safe and resilient. He said the EPA is hoping to work with the states, with HUD and with FEMA to use this restoration as a model for future disaster rebuilding where new levels of protection and resiliency are included. He further added that the majority of the water and storm protection improvements would benefit from increased green infrastructure, such as wetlands restoration, green roofs, and other natural storm and wastewater protection strategies. “I am very gratified to hear that we are finally beginning to move our disaster recovery infrastructure projects in a greener and therefore more resilient and sustainable direction,” said Congressman Serrano. “We’ve known that improving the environment—especially in the waterways and runoff areas—is an investment that has many benefits, but historically it’s been difficult to move federal agencies and funding in this direction. I believe that Deputy Assistant Administrator Shapiro is entirely correct in saying that if we increase green infrastructure as part of our Hurricane Sandy water infrastructure rebuilding, we are making a very wise upgrade to our disaster preparedness and investing in protection against the next storm.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Department of the Interior, which also oversees the budget of the EPA.
03.06.2013	Washington, DC – Today, with the passage of the FY2013 Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Resolution, the US Postal Service has been prohibited from ending Saturday delivery as they had previously announced. Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the continuation provision: “The Continuing Resolution is clear; there will be six day delivery for the rest of the fiscal year,” said Congressman Serrano. “Earlier this year the Postal Service announced they thought they had legal authority to end Saturday delivery. That analysis was wrong, but now there is no room for misunderstanding. This bill included advance appropriations for the Postal Service which continued the provision requiring six day delivery. There is no longer any possibility of misinterpretation: according to their own legal analysis these steps require the Postal Service to maintain six day delivery.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which has funding authority for the US Postal Service.
03.05.2013	Washington, DC – March 5, 2013 –Congressman José E. Serrano today mourned the death of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. “I met President Chavez in 2005 when he came to my district at my invitation,” said Congressman Serrano. “His focus on the issues faced by the poor and disenfranchised in his country made him a truly revolutionary leader in the history of Latin America. He understood that after 400 years on the outside of the established power structure looking in, it was time that the poor had a chance at seeing their problems and issues addressed. His core belief was in the dignity and common humanity of all people. “When he visited, President Chavez offered a new type of program to the people of the Bronx. He had harnessed the power of his nation’s oil resources and was using their profits—through Citgo—to enact social spending programs. Now he offered people in the Bronx that were struggling economically the same deal. He would provide home heating oil at a huge discount, provided the savings were reinvested in programs that benefited the underserved and underprivileged. I am proud to report that we have benefited from that program ever since, with millions invested in our community through this program and through a grant program he set up. “Though President Chavez was accused of many things, it is important to remember that he was democratically-elected many times in elections that were declared free and fair by international monitors. Even today, people in North America seem unable to accept that Venezuelans had taken our admonitions to have democracy to heart and elected the leader of their choice. President Chavez carried out the programs that his constituents wanted enacted, and won reelection. This too was revolutionary in the history of Latin America. “President Chavez was a controversial leader. But at his core he was a man who came from very little and used his unique talents and gifts to try to lift up the people and the communities that reflected his impoverished roots. He believed that the government of the country should be used to empower the masses, not the few. He understood democracy and basic human desires for a dignified life. His legacy in his nation, and in the hemisphere, will be assured, as the people he inspired continue to strive for a better life for the poor and downtrodden.” ###
02.28.2013	Washington, DC – February 28, 2013 –Congressman José E. Serrano today voted in favor of the Senate Democratic version of the critical “Violence Against Women Act” which expands and improves protections for numerous groups, and continues the many effective programs in past forms of the act. “We cannot do enough to make sure that violence against women is treated as an affront to our values,” said Congressman Serrano. "This legislation provides the resources to prevent and respond to domestic violence and other crimes against women. It also expands these protections to particularly vulnerable populations like immigrant, LGBT, and native communities. This is the correct approach to a crime that comes from an outdated and reprehensible mindset. “This bill is a vital tool for law enforcement, the courts, service providers, and for our society as a whole. Our communities are only as safe as we make them, and tolerating violence in any form against our sisters, our neighbors, our aunts or any woman is not acceptable. I was proud to vote today to continue to work to end violence towards women.” ###
02.27.2013	>Washington, DC – February 27, 2013 – As the Supreme Court meets today to hear a case on the constitutionality of Section 5 of the important Voting Rights Act, Congressman José E. Serrano said the law remains “deeply important” and “clearly constitutional.” Serrano called the case against the landmark law out of touch with the realities of American voting issues. “I am confident the Supreme Court will agree with those of us in Congress who reauthorized the Voting Rights Act in 2006. Back then, we found that there is still a deep and abiding need for monitoring of fair voting access in certain areas of the nation, including in the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “Congress extended this law with a great deal of thought, input, and scrutiny. We felt then, and continue to believe, that without this law many people would see serious infringement on their constitutional right to free and unfettered access to voting. Thus far the courts who have heard this legal challenge have stated that Congress acted properly under the 14th and 15th Amendments, and upheld the VRA. I believe that they saw the important constitutional imperative that Congress has to ensure voting access. “The Voting Rights Act has been our most successful pieces of civil rights legislation, but sadly, there are still places in our nation where the right to vote is not assured without intervention. I deeply wish that the VRA was unnecessary, but because of the problems that have been documented, we must continue to provide proactive protection for voting access. Voting is a fundamental right in our democracy and we must do everything in our power to protect it. Section 5 of the VRA does just that and deserves to stand. “ ###
02.25.2013	The Bronx – February 25, 2013 –Congressman José E. Serrano today called on Republicans in Congress to negotiate a compromise in order to avoid the devastating cuts of the upcoming sequester, due to be enacted at the end of the week. Serrano laid out some of the effects the cuts would have on New York State if the sequester continues forward and called them “unwise” and “deeply damaging.” “The dire consequences of the sequester mechanism were enacted to bring about a reasonable deficit reduction compromise,” said Congressman Serrano. “President Obama only agreed to the cuts in an effort to push a more balanced solution to deficit reduction, and to counter the Republicans’ refusal to raise the debt ceiling which was holding the economy hostage at the time. “Time and again Democrats, led by President Obama, have offered balanced, reasonable deficit reduction plans only to see Republicans refuse to compromise. The other side has offered nothing but unpalatable and severe cuts. And now we see the same attitude as we face a series of unwise reductions that will hamstring our economy and harm our working families. The time has come for Republicans of courage to stare down the extremists in their ranks and begin a good faith negotiation which leads to a balanced deficit reduction package. “I voted against the sequester for a variety reasons, but mostly because of the dire consequences that I saw in the spending cuts that it proposed for social services. Then, as now, I worried for the working families who count on a functioning government that helps them in a variety of ways. Now I’ve seen the effects that the cuts will have on New York State alone, and I must say that it will severely impact communities from the one I represent in the Bronx to those far Upstate. It is a terrible public policy and must be undone.” The White House report on the effects of the sequester shows the widespread negative effects that it will have in New York State. Some of the worst impacts include: Teachers and Schools: New York State will lose approximately $42.7 million for primary and secondary education, putting around 590 teacher and aide jobs at risk. In addition about 70,000 fewer students would be served and approximately 120 fewer schools would receive funding. Education for Children with Disabilities: New York State will lose approximately $36.3 million for about 440 teachers, aides, and staff who help children with disabilities. Head Start: Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 4,300 children in New York State, reducing access to critical early education. Public Health: New York State will lose approximately $1,070,000 to help upgrade its ability to respond to public health threats including infectious diseases, natural disasters, and biological, chemical, nuclear, and radiological events. In addition, New York State will lose about $5,730,000 in grants to help prevent and treat substance abuse, resulting in around 6,100 fewer admissions to substance abuse programs. And the New York State Department of Public Health will lose about $2,726,000 resulting in around 68,200 fewer HIV tests. Law Enforcement and Public Safety Funds: New York State will lose about $780,000 in Justice Assistance Grants that support law enforcement, prosecution and courts, crime prevention and education, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, and crime victim and witness initiatives. Job Search Assistance: Around 46,230 fewer New York State residents will get the help and skills they need to find employment as New York State will lose about $884,000 for job search assistance, referral, and placement, meaning. Child Care: Up to 2,300 disadvantaged and vulnerable children could lose access to child care, which is also essential for working parents to hold down a job. Vaccines for Children: In New York State around 7,170 fewer children will receive vaccines for diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, whooping cough, influenza, and Hepatitis B due to reduced funding for vaccinations. Violence Against Women Grants: New York State could lose up to $412,000 to provide services to victims of domestic violence, resulting in up to 1,600 fewer victims being served. Nutrition for Seniors: New York State would lose approximately $1,447,000 to help provide meals for seniors. College Aid and Work-Study Jobs: Around 4,520 fewer low income students in New York State would receive aid to help them finance the costs of college and around 4,150 fewer students will get work-study jobs that help them pay for college. Protections for Clean Air and Clean Water: New York State would lose about $12,869,000 million to ensure clean water and air quality, as well as prevent pollution from pesticides and hazardous waste. Military Readiness: In New York State, approximately 12,000 civilian Department of Defense employees would be furloughed, reducing gross pay by around $60.9 million in total. ###
02.12.2013	Washington, DC – February 12, 2013 –Congressman José E. Serrano tonight reacted positively to President Obama’s State of the Union address. Congressman Serrano was joined at the speech by Bronx anti-gun activist Gloria Cruz, who lost a niece to gun violence in the Bronx in 2005. “Tonight we heard a multi-faceted approach to reinvigorating and revitalizing our nation,” said Serrano. “President Obama laid out a clear vision for a country that is safe at home, respected abroad, and full of opportunity for average Americans. Congress should stop its obsession with reckless cutting and begin to help put our people back to work. We should immediately pass new laws to tighten gun control laws and prevent needless deaths. And we should work together to strengthen our nation for future generations. “I brought Gloria Cruz to the speech tonight. Gloria is an Bronx-based activist for safe communities—communities that are free from the threat of gun violence. She has been a tireless advocate for ending the bloodshed in our nation. I was heartened to hear President Obama call for new sensible restrictions on gun ownership that would help to prevent the kind of killings that took Gloria’s niece from her. The safety of our children must come as a higher priority than preserving people’s unnecessary arsenals of high-powered weaponry. On behalf of the Bronx, I thank Gloria for coming tonight and for all that she has done on this issue. “We heard the President speak about the need to produce good jobs for average Americans. I agree with him, and also agree that we cannot cut our way to prosperity. It is time for Republicans to end their obsession with cutting spending and begin to make sensible investments in our people in order to bring unemployment down. As more people work, and our economy grows, we will see the tax receipts rise and the deficit fall. This is the surest way to end any fiscal imbalances, and one that does not cause suffering, like the deep cuts advocated by Republicans. “I particularly appreciated President Obama’s call for real comprehensive immigration reform. I believe that we are on the verge of accomplishing the elusive goal of setting our undocumented neighbors on a pathway to full citizenship. We should not allow ourselves to be sidetracked or distracted. This reform must happen. It is the fair and right thing to do. “I must also applaud the President for announcing that we will begin to draw down the troops in Afghanistan. We have accomplished our mission there—it is no longer a haven for international terrorists. Our men and women in uniform have performed exceedingly well, and we owe them a debt of thanks as they arrive home. I am glad to see the end of the Bush era wars and appreciate that our foreign policy is now calibrated so that we are respected abroad and safe at home. “Tonight we saw a President with a balanced vision of governing. He understands the needs and fears of our working families and is trying to address them with smart policies. I hope that Republicans can drop their obstructionist tendencies and begin to work with President Obama to achieve real results for our nation. The time has come for them to compromise and find common ground. Our nation is depending on it.” ###
02.11.2013	The Bronx, NY – February 11, 2013 –Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he has invited Bronx anti-gun violence activist Gloria Cruz to be his guest for the State of the Union. Since losing her niece to gun violence in the Bronx in 2005, Ms. Cruz has worked to bring attention to the need for sensible gun control measures to halt the gun violence that plagues the nation. She is the Bronx president of the Million Mom March, an organization dedicated to sensible gun laws. “Sadly, Gloria is representative of far too many people across the nation—people who have lost a loved one to senseless gun violence,” said Serrano. “I invited her to come to the State of the Union address tomorrow to help send the message to the nation that we have waited too long for sensible gun laws. Gloria’s work has helped to organize the silent majority which wants stronger gun laws. She has helped bring voice to the concerns of parents and relatives who do not want to fear for the lives of their loved ones. She has helped bring balance to a debate that too often favors the most well-funded voices. “I look forward to hearing President Obama’s message on gun violence tomorrow night. I believe that he has the right approach—which includes background checks for all gun sales and a ban on needless firepower. He recognizes that our schools, streets, homes, and above all, our children, should be safe from gun violence. I have pledged to work to pass laws to end the flow of guns into the wrong hands. I hope that my pro-gun colleagues, when faced with the power of the example of people like Gloria Cruz will begin to soften their opposition to sensible gun controls.” In 2005, Gloria Cruz’ niece Naiesha Pearson was killed in the Bronx by a stray bullet at age 10. In the wake of that tragedy, Ms. Cruz began to organize the Million Mom March which takes place every Mothers Day in the Bronx. She also organized a local chapter of New Yorkers Against Gun Violence and supported various legislative and law enforcement initiatives to stem the flow of illegal guns. Congressman Serrano has long supported gun control measures, and voted to support the original assault weapons ban in 1994. In the 113th Congress, Serrano has cosponsored efforts to improve our background check system and limit access to assault weapons and high capacity magazines, among other bills. He has also supported the efforts of a variety of NY local leaders to reduce the flow of guns to the City. ###
02.06.2013	Washington, DC – February 6, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the U.S. Postal Service’s announced plan to sell the Bronx General Post Office on the Grand Concourse. The building, which has landmark status, contains 13 historically significant murals in the lobby which were completed in 1939 by noted artist Ben Shahn and his wife, Bernarda Bryson. “More than many, I understand the budget pressures that the USPS is facing, and appreciate their need to find efficiencies. The potential sale of the historic Bronx General Post Office, a landmarked community jewel, seems to me to be step that should only be undertaken if all other measures have fallen short. I fear that while this may appear to be a good decision to them now, such a move is shortsighted and will have bad long term outcomes. This Post Office is a treasured piece of the Bronx urban infrastructure. Indeed, the magnificent artwork on the interior makes it more than infrastructure. We cannot sell off the public buildings inheritance we were left by previous generations of Americans. “It is important to also pay attention to the other issues at hand. Above all, we must ensure that people in the Bronx are not unduly burdened by the need to cut costs at the USPS. We cannot ask frail seniors to walk long distances to use postal services. We must ensure that delivery is timely and uses a minimum of truck travel. We also must be sure that any sales or consolidation plans do not cost jobs. Too many jobs have already been cut at the USPS and we must find other ways to ensure its long-term survival. “I am deeply troubled by many of the cost-cutting proposals that the USPS has been floating recently—especially ending Saturday mail delivery. As with the proposed Bronx General Post Office sale, I believe close attention must be paid to the negative impact that ending Saturday delivery would have on communities across the nation. Combining that change with the closure of post offices like the Bronx General Post Office would be a double burden to many people in our community. “In summary, I believe that selling the historic Bronx General Post Office is a premature and unwise decision. I urge the Postal Service to fully and fairly consider the input that they receive on their proposal. I believe that if they do, they will come to the conclusion that selling this historic building is not a good idea. I am sure that in conjunction with all the stakeholders we could come to a better plan that would serve all needs.” ###
02.06.2013	Washington, DC – February 6, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the U.S. Postal Service’s announced plan to end Saturday delivery. “The U.S. Postal Service has many budgetary issues, and needs Congress to complete a reform package, but they are acting outside of their legal authority if they suspend Saturday delivery. They have been prohibited from doing so by language in the Financial Services and General Government appropriations bills for the past several decades. The passage of the continuing resolution did not suspend that language, as they claim, but in fact extended it. They receive ongoing payments from Congress through which they are subjected to our oversight and guidance. That also has not changed. Rather than use very dubious legal arguments to end Saturday delivery, the USPS should work hand-in-hand with Congress to come up with a successful restructuring and reform package that allows them to become more efficient while maintaining vital services like Saturday delivery. “I intend to work with the majority on the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee to ensure that the USPS complies with the spirit and the letter of the law. Circumventing Congress is not a successful strategy for tackling the huge challenges that he USPS faces. Their challenges require that we all work together and come up with creative and sustainable solutions.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Ranking Member on the Financial Services and General Government Appropriation Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the budgets of numerous agencies, including the U.S. Postal Service.
02.01.2013	The Bronx NY – February 1, 2013 – Upon learning of the passing of Mayor Ed Koch early this morning, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement: “Today we lost one of the best New Yorkers in recent memory. Whether it was his wit and sharp tongue, his irrepressible spirit or his can-do attitude, never has New York had a leader that so embodied what New Yorkers are and can be. Ed Koch understood what people in New York thought and felt. He always seemed to have his finger on the pulse of the City. But above all, no one seemed to enjoy being Mayor more than he did. “Mayor Koch was a tremendous public servant, but perhaps more importantly for his time as mayor, he was a cheerleader for New York City. He took over in a bleak time, and started turning the City around. His belief in the people of New York helped put our City back on an upswing that continues to this day. This is particularly true in the Bronx as he helped it rebound from its hard times, by insisting on rebuilding when others wanted to write our borough off. Ed Koch believed in the Bronx and believed in New York. “Like most New Yorkers, Mayor Koch never held back on saying what he felt. And unlike some others, he took on any issue that needed to be dealt with, without fear of whose feathers he might ruffle. But even when there were disputes and difficulties over the years, he was able to use his charm and wit to help to smooth the differences so that work could continue on other pressing issues. “He will be missed in the City that he so loved and worked so hard to improve. Our City will miss having this one-of-a-kind New Yorker in its midst; Ed Koch will definitely not be forgotten.” ###
01.24.2013	Washington, DC – January 24, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano applauded President Obama’s nomination of Mary Jo White to be the next Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Serrano is Ranking Member on the House Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the SEC budget. “Mary Jo White is a tremendous public servant with a clear sense of right and wrong,” said Serrano. “From her time in New York, I can attest to her tenacity and her fundamental belief that all should play by the same set of rules. This sort of mentality is welcome for the agency which oversees our financial markets and protects investors. From the certainty that everyone is playing by the same set of rules, investors can have full confidence in the markets and the companies they would like to invest in. Mary Jo White will bring just such confidence. “I want to compliment the outgoing Chair, Mary Schapiro, on her performance in the job over the last four years. She has taken an agency that was in disarray after many years of neglect because of anti-regulatory fervor, and set it on the right path. She was a vital component in shaping and implementing Dodd-Frank and as a result our markets are safer places for all investors. “I look forward to meeting with Mary Jo White, and helping her to continue to build on her predecessor’s successes and to finish the important implementation of Dodd-Frank. Appropriations oversight and funding continue to be an essential tool in ensuring that the SEC remains responsive to the needs of the American people. Though fiscal times are tight, I will be fighting for every dollar possible for the SEC to ensure that there are enough cops on the beat. We have seen what happens when that is not the case, and our economy cannot take it again.” ###
01.16.2013	Congressman José E. Serrano announced his strong support for the gun violence initiative that President Obama and Vice President Biden unveiled today. Serrano applauded their immediate actions using executive orders and pledged to work on behalf of their legislative proposals. “It is long past time to seriously grapple with the epidemic of gun violence that plagues our nation,” said Serrano. “The ongoing killings of our children show that we cannot tolerate the inadequate regulation of guns in our nation. Our founding fathers guaranteed the right to sensible gun ownership, not an unrestricted, no-holds-barred, anything-goes smorgasbord of irresponsible gun ownership. I am very relieved that President Obama is taking immediate steps to prevent guns from getting into the wrong hands, and is asking Congress to aid him in this effort. I believe Congress should act quickly on the President's legislative proposals. "As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, I am happy to see that the President has asked the Consumer Product Safety Commission to study the effectiveness of gun locks and gun safes, and to propose steps to improve the safety standards of these products. This is an important step in reducing unauthorized access to firearms, and one I will support during the appropriations process. “I come from a community where guns only do bad things. I hate gun violence. But I respect and understand the position of hunters, sportsmen and those who use guns responsibly. In return, I believe that gun owners can agree that some extreme weapons have no place in society and there are some people who should not be permitted to have guns because of previous behavior. I believe that’s a fair tradeoff. “While it seems to take a horrible tragedy to wake our nation up to the problem of gun violence, the reality is that this is an ongoing and persistent problem every day in every part of the country. New York took sensible steps to prevent gun violence this week. Other states should follow our lead. But for the scourge of this horrible epidemic to be wiped out, we need national legislation and regulations. Only then will we end the killings and the violence. I look forward to attacking this legislative issue and hopefully ending this awful problem.” ###
01.11.2013	Op-Ed: Restoring waterways is crucial The cleanup of the Bronx River helped blunt the impact of Hurricane Sandy. By José Serrano and John F. Calvelli January 11, 2013 9:00 a.m. Crain's New York Business The tristate area is only beginning to recover from the destruction wrought by Hurricane Sandy. As we assess the damage and how we prepare for a future storm, it is worth noting that work by local communities, government and nonprofit groups to restore and stabilize the city's local waterways may well be part of the answer. Nowhere is this better typified than in the tremendous strides that have been taken to restore the Bronx River. Neglected for much of the 20th century, it is now a national model for reclaiming urban rivers, thanks to a joint effort of the federal government, the Bronx Zoo and dedicated local groups. The river named for local merchant Jonas Bronck in the 17th century supported such a density of beavers that Europeans flocked to the area to acquire their pelts. New York City enshrined this symbol of its economic growth in its official seal. But while the beaver's image was preserved, the animal itself disappeared as the city grew. With the arrival of factories and freight rail during the industrial era, Bronx residents were separated from this onetime oasis. As autos and associated highways further divided the borough, the river became a typically devalued urban water resource—pollution-choked, devoid of life, with no visible future. By the 1970s, the South Bronx had the lowest per capita green space in all of New York City and a disproportionately large number of industrial plants. Local activists began efforts to clean up the river as a way to combat the polluted and concrete-covered environment, but they were stymied by a lack of resources. Funding finally began to flow in the late 1990s via a unique partnership between federal and local governments, local citizens and nonprofits. The environmental cleanup results speak for themselves: many acres of river habitat restored or preserved, 7,000 students instructed, 1,500 educators trained, the reintroduction of the once-native alewife fish, and the removal of tons of trash. Some 3,000 people canoe on the river annually today. Thousands of others come to enjoy the new riverside parks, bike paths and green spaces. Yet as the city comes to grips with the devastation brought by Sandy, there are other benefits to a well-managed local waterway system that we are only beginning to appreciate. The restoration of the floodplains in the lower Bronx River and the reconstruction of riparian habitat along the rest of the river helped to blunt the impact of the storm in nearby neighborhoods. Oyster restoration work by groups like Rocking the Boat protects—and could further protect—urban shores from storm impacts by solidifying our natural infrastructure. Oyster beds can slow powerful waves and, working with marshes, sand bars and other features of the coastal landscape, provide greater stability and defense to shorelines. We saw that during the 2004 tsunami in Southeast Asia, wetland and mangrove systems provided protection both to coastal communities and local fisheries. Likewise, coastal wetlands along the Gulf of Mexico served as a critical buffer again the storm surge during Hurricane Katrina. Wetland restoration projects in the Bronx, Jamaica Bay and Jersey City seem to have survived Sandy with minimal damage. Mayor Michael Bloomberg's PlaNYC wisely commits upwards of 1.5 billion dollars in the next two decades to natural, or “green,” infrastructure. Coastal ecosystem restoration offers multiple additional benefits, from supporting commercial fisheries dependent upon healthy coastal ecology to addressing climate change as marsh sediments and vegetation fix atmospheric carbon. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a longtime supporter of initiatives to restore the Bronx River, could lead the way now by studying and reporting on the specific benefits that accrue to areas that reinforce their natural infrastructure to protect against extreme weather. In the meantime, the Bronx River cleanup provides a national model for a new federal Urban Waters initiative designed to stimulate local economies, create jobs and protect Americans' health by revitalizing waterways in underserved areas. The return of two beavers suggests that restoration is now taking on a life of its own. Securing local habitat for wildlife and the enjoyment of the public is essential work. But Sandy's devastating surge reminds us that this work could now be more critical than ever in protecting our city from the storms that many climate experts now predict will hit our shores with growing frequency. Rep. José Serrano represents the Bronx in the U.S. Congress, and directed more than $30 million in federal funds to the Bronx River cleanup. John F. Calvelli is executive vice president for public affairs at the Wildlife Conservation Society, which managed the grant from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration that supported Bronx River restoration and education efforts. Read more: http://www.crainsnewyork.com/article/20130111/OPINION/130119984#ixzz2HfzUxwBM
01.11.2013	The Bronx, NY – January 11, 2013 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined with Mayor Michael Bloomberg and other officials to break ground on the restoration of the High Bridge, which will be reopened to the public in 2014. The bridge, which connects the Bronx and Washington Heights, was last open to the public more than 40 years ago. “Though it has been a while coming, the start of this project is particularly gratifying,” said Congressman José E. Serrano, who provided more than $5 million in federal funding for the project in 2005 and 2006. “The City and neighborhood groups deserve special praise for taking the seed money that I obtained more than 7 years ago, and adding to it and bringing us to today’s groundbreaking. Our borough has often been symbolically disconnected from the rest of the City, and so the High Bridge will restore an important connection.” This $62 million dollar renovation will include safety and structural improvements, including renovated stairways, railings and lighting. The High Bridge was first opened in 1848 as part of the Croton Aqueduct system. The bridge historically was open to pedestrians and was a popular spot to promenade in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The central masonry arches of the bridge were replaced with a steel arch in the 1920s, but the original masonry arches remain on both the Bronx and Manhattan ends of the bridge. “I foresee children, cyclists, walkers, joggers and even commuters using this new pathway to Washington Heights. But for me, it is more than just a reopened pathway to another borough. It is yet another symbol that the Bronx is no longer cut off from the rest of the City, isolated and neglected. We are no longer a different world from the rest of the City, but instead a vibrant, important part of the fabric of our metropolis. We are connected to it through people and culture and arts and industry. We are part of the heart of what makes New York what it is. So, yes, people will cross the High Bridge on foot and on bicycle. But more importantly, the Bronx will have yet another symbolic and real reconnection to the greater City. “I applaud all those involved in restoring and reopening the High Bridge for all to use. It has been a long process, with not a few setbacks, but the focus and the dedication of all those who worked on it has been truly special. I am very much looking forward to the day in 2014 when we all cut the ribbon and walk across the High Bridge along with the public for the first time in decades. That will be a great day for our City.” ###
01.11.2013	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement after President Obama announced the nomination of Jacob Lew for Secretary of the Treasury. "Jack Lew is a exemplary public servant, and an ideal choice to help lead the Department of the Treasury going forward," said Congressman Serrano. "He has served our nation with distinction throughout our government, and I am confident that he will be as successful in this new position as he has been at OMB, the Department of State, and elsewhere. He is the right choice to finish the implementation of Dodd-Frank, to continue our economic growth, and to address the many other challenges that our nation faces. I look forward to his quick confirmation, and to working with him to ensure that the Department of the Treasury has the resources needed to remain effective in managing our economy, protecting our financial system, and enforcing our tax laws." Serrano is the Ranking Member on the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Department of the Treasury, including the Internal Revenue Service. ###
01.02.2013	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano blasted the House Republican leadership, which announced today that it would adjourn without voting on the Superstorm Sandy aid package already passed by the Senate. “The shameless decision of the House Republican leadership to turn their back on the millions of people still suffering from the effects of Superstorm Sandy is deplorable,” said Congressman Serrano. “Our nation does not turn its back on those who were affected by natural disasters that are beyond their control and beyond their ability to recover from. We help our neighbors and fellow citizens in their times of need. I’m shocked and appalled that the House Republican leadership would ignore this basic standard of decency. “The citizens of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, and their elected leaders, have never complained or shirked their duty in helping their fellow citizens elsewhere when they were affected by natural disasters. Our congressional delegations have voted in favor of multi-billion dollar disaster aid packages without complaint. Now we simply ask the leaders from other states to return that simple favor. This should not be a partisan issue. “We just ask the House Republican leadership to put the Sandy bill on the floor and let us pass this bill with the votes of Democrats and those Republicans who would join us. By refusing us this vote, they are increasing the suffering of millions of Americans whose lives were upended by a huge natural disaster.” ###
12.20.2012	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that the Bronx-based Morris Heights Health Center had been given a $500,000 grant to build more school-based health centers. With this grant Morris Heights Health Center will increase their presence to 16 Bronx schools, serving thousands of students. “The work that the Morris Heights Health Center does is legendary in the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “Over the years this organization has helped so many people and treated health disorders that would have otherwise gone untreated. Announcing this grant is a true pleasure, because I know that it will enable MHHC to do more of their work, and improve the health of more people. Most importantly, the new centers will be based in schools—serving our children. There is no better use of government funds than ensuring that our children get the health care that they need. I applaud the work that MHHC is doing, and look forward to hearing about their future successes. “We are delighted to have this award enabling us to expand our integrated medical, social and mental health services to two additional schools,” said Verona Greenland, President and CEO of the Morris Heights Health Center. “Having these vital school-based programs creates ease of access to care, minimizes school absences, and reduces disruptions in parents’ work life. Equally important is the creation of healthy minds so that our children can remain in school, learn, thrive, and become healthy and powerful adults.” Morris Heights Health Center was awarded $500,000 to establish two School Based Health Centers at PS 109 located at 1771 Popham Avenue and Mott Hall High School Campus at 250 E 164th Street. Funds were made available through the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Grants For School-Based Health Centers Capital Program. PS 109 serves 860 students in grades K through 5. The work at PS 109 will involve a complete renovation of the current space (1,683 sq. ft.) to convert it into a state-of-the-art clinic with three exam rooms and spaces for social work services, health education and group counseling as well as a waiting area and bathroom facilities. The Mott Hall High School Campus houses three schools: Grant Elementary School (grades K-5); Science and Technology Academy (grades 6-8); and Bronx Early College Academy (grades 9-12). All together the schools serve over 1,100 students. The work at the Mott Hall Campus will involve renovating the current space allocated for the clinic (596 sq. ft.) and converting it into a state-of-the-art health care center with three exam rooms, an office for social services, a waiting area and a bathroom. ###
12.19.2012	Washington, DC —Congressman José E. Serrano today congratulated Ramón Orta for being named Secretary of the Puerto Rico Department of Recreation and Sports by Governor-elect Alejandro García Padilla. Ramón Orta served as an intern in Congressman Serrano’s office in the fall of 2000 as part of the Córdova-Fernos Congressional Internship program. “I had the pleasure to have Ramón work in my office a few years ago as an intern from the Córdova-Fernos Internship program, which I created together with then-Senator Kenneth McClintock,” said Congressman Serrano. “Since its creation more than 15 years ago, dozens of interns from that program have worked in my congressional office. I always try to impart to them the importance of public service and of democratic dialogue. I always emphasize that spending part or all of your career in public service is a noble way to help your community. It seems that Ramón took that advice to heart and has dedicated himself to serving Puerto Rico. I applaud his choice and wish him success as he takes on this new posting.” *** Washington, DC -- El congresista José Serrano felicitó el miércoles al joven puertorriqueño Ramón Orta por su designación como Secretario del Departamento de Recreación y Deportes de Puerto Rico, designado por el Gobernador Electo Alejandro García Padilla. "Tuve el placer de tener a Ramón trabajando como interno en mi oficina durante el semestre otoño de 2000, como parte del Programa Córdova-Fernos de Internados Congresionales que yo creé junto con el entonces senador Kenneth McClintock. Docenas de internos del Programa Córdova han laborado en mi oficina congresional a lo largo de más de 15 años y siempre les enfatizaba la importancia de regresar a Puerto Rico y a dedicar aunque fueran unos años al servicio público, y Ramón evidentemente nos hizo caso", indicó el congresista Serrano. ###
12.18.2012	Congressman José E. Serrano sent a letter also signed by several other Members of Congress on Friday calling for increased funding for The Emergency Food Assistance Program in the Hurricane Sandy supplemental appropriations package. This program funds the purchase of commodities that are distributed by food banks and soup kitchens, which have been under significant strain since the hurricane. “As we clean up from Hurricane Sandy, we must ensure that the organizations that have been at the front lines of dealing with this disaster are fully supported,” said Congressman Serrano. “My colleagues and I believe that one of the top priorities is ensuring that the people left without resources have food and shelter during the time it takes to rebuild and reconstruct. Among the most vital links in the chain of support for these people are the food banks, which provide food and other services. By sending this letter to the Appropriations Committee we are signaling that these organizations are priority responders and deserve full support. I am certain that we will see a positive outcome for these important organizations, just like we will see a positive outcome for the people that they serve.” The full text of the letter is below. Dear Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Dicks, Chairman Kingston, and Ranking Member Farr, We write to you today in support of the President's $60.4 billion disaster supplemental request to help New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and several other states recover from the devastating impact of Hurricane Sandy, and to urge you to increase funding for The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) in any supplemental appropriations legislation brought forward by the House and Senate Appropriations Committees. Regions of the country affected by Hurricane Sandy face a long road to recovery, and additional TEFAP funding is necessary to assist in this effort. We strongly believe that the President's supplemental request is a very good start in helping families and businesses recover and rebuild after the storm. However, food banks have been on the front lines of the recovery effort, and we believe that additional TEFAP funding is warranted in order to ensure that these organizations can continue to meet the hunger needs of needy residents in the months to come. Food banks have been a crucial asset in the response to Hurricane Sandy. Under normal circumstances, food banks are our nation’s last line of defense for those facing food hardship. This role has become even more important in the aftermath of the storm, and food banks have seen their output skyrocket. For instance, in the two and a half weeks after Hurricane Sandy hit, Island Harvest Food Bank in Hauppauge, New York distributed 1.2 million pounds of food, as compared to 150,000 pounds of food the same time last year. Similarly, in the same time period, City Harvest Food Bank in Long Island City, New York distributed approximately 2.8 million pounds of food compared to approximately 1.9 million pounds during the same period last year. These organizations have filled an enormous need in preventing hunger in the aftermath of the hurricane, but at the expense of their future ability to meet hunger needs. As you know, TEFAP funds the purchase of commodities that are distributed by food banks, soup kitchens, and others to hungry Americans. The President’s request of $6 million is equivalent to one month's worth of TEFAP entitlement commodities in the affected areas. However, many food banks in the region have estimated that they will need additional assistance to continue their usual level of service. With this in mind, we urge you to provide $35 million in funding for TEFAP in the upcoming disaster supplemental. Food banks have risen to the occasion in order to help those in need after Hurricane Sandy. We look forward to working with you on this issue as the supplemental process moves forward. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Jerrold NadlerYvette ClarkeRobert A. BradyRush HoltChaka Fattah ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.17.2012	The Bronx, NY —Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined with other parents around the nation in calling for an overhaul of the nation’s gun control laws. In the wake of the recent mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, Congressman Serrano said that there “can no longer be silence and passivity in the face of the ongoing gun violence in our nation.” “Like the rest of the country, I spent the weekend mourning the loss of innocent lives in Newtown on Friday,” said Serrano. “First and foremost, our hearts go out to the families who lost loved ones there. This senseless act that robbed them of their family members – especially their children – has no place in a civilized society. Our nation mourns with them in this time of grief. “As I reflected on this senseless tragedy over the weekend, there was really only one conclusion that came to me; guns are designed for killing and must be treated as such. Over the past decade, we have tried the pro-gun lobby's preferred policy of inaction on gun regulation. It is clear that this policy has failed our children and our nation. We must now begin the national conversation on how to limit guns in such a way that our children and communities are safe from these horrors. There cannot be any other end result. “Our nation has grown weary of mourning the victims of these horrific acts. We cannot sit idly by any longer. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass sensible gun regulations that keep our children safe. We must end this violence.” ###
12.17.2012	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano sent his condolences today to the family of Senator Daniel Inouye, who passed away this afternoon. “Senator Daniel Inouye was a model statesman and a true American hero,” said Congressman Serrano. “I had the pleasure to occasionally work with him as we served on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees respectively. He was a gentleman and a pleasure to work with. I believe that his deep faith in the wisdom and basic goodness of the American people was what motivated his integrity and his courtesy. Senator Inouye was an institution and his passing will mark the end of an era for both Hawaii and the U.S. Senate. He will be missed but certainly his legacy will live on.” ###
12.13.2012	Washington, DC — December 13, 2012 -- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined with 82 other House Democrats in sending a letter that urged the White House to reject House Republican efforts to raise the Medicare eligibility age during ongoing debt negotiations. “As our nation faces the fiscal cliff, Republicans have again demanded unpopular cuts that disproportionately hurt working families and retirees who have earned their retirement benefits,” Congressman Serrano said. “The Administration should reject the Republicans’ proposal of accepting minimal tax hikes for millionaires in exchange for substantial changes to Medicare that make our elderly less secure.” “President Obama ran on an explicit promise to raise tax rates on the wealthy, and he won,” Congressman Serrano added. “In my mind, the Republicans should accept the will of the American people and stop their obstructionism and demands for cuts to vital programs. Our nation’s fiscal future and the well-being of our seniors should not be held hostage by rigid and destructive anti-tax ideology. I know President Obama will hold firm, and this letter shows that House Democrats stand with him.” Full text of the letter to President Obama follows below. President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We salute your leadership in seeking tax fairness for all. Furthermore, we understand the importance of balancing fiscal responsibility with the responsibility to meet fundamental public needs. We certainly agree that the Bush tax cuts should be allowed to expire for the top 2 percent of American taxpayers, returning to the Clinton Administration level. This change would occur automatically if Congress failed to act by the end of the year. Some of our colleagues, who have long questioned the value of Medicare, have urged that in return for allowing these tax rates to return to their prior levels, we should terminate Medicare for millions of seniors. As Minority Leader Pelosi put it so eloquently, “It was their trophy in the talks on the fiscal cliff -- the price they asked seniors to pay before they voted to ask the wealthiest to pay their fair share.” This would be unacceptable. Raising the Medicare age doesn’t cut costs—it simply shifts those costs to those who depend on Medicare, to younger Americans who buy insurance through the new health insurance exchanges, and to states. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that the costs to states and the private sector would be twice as large as the savings-- $11.4 billion in costs versus $5.7 billion in net federal savings. For our colleagues to consider raising the eligibility age illustrates that their desire has less to do with addressing rising longer health care costs than it does being able to claim an ideological triumph. As the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities recently concluded on raising the Medicare eligibility age: “The goal should be to slow the growth of health care costs system-wide, while extending coverage to all Americans. This proposal does just the opposite on both fronts — raising costs system-wide and increasing the ranks of the uninsured.” Our nation’s older Americans have worked a lifetime for the promise of Social Security and Medicare. For those 65-and 66-year-olds who would now be denied the security of Medicare, their out-of-pocket costs would increase by $3.7 billion. Paying more for their health care isn’t the only negative impact on our nation’s older Americans. Raising the Medicare eligibility age to 67 would also increase the population of uninsured seniors by at least 270,000 people. While the House Republican budget phased in this change for those 54 and below, this only delays the pain. And such a phased approach would produce no budget savings for the next decade. It only indicates that this Republican proposal is about ideology, not deficit reduction. Even though we have made great progress addressing long-term rising health care costs with the passage of the Affordable Health Care Act, and even though the eligibility age for Social Security benefits is gradually increasing, it will do great harm to our economy and millions of seniors to raise the Medicare eligibility age or enact other significant cost-shifting alternatives. We do understand it is important to meet the challenge of rising health care costs, that is why we were willing to vote for changes to Medicare and in doing so, extended the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by almost another decade. As we continue to work to develop a response to rising health care costs and make Medicare stronger, we urge you in the strongest possible terms against changing the eligibility age of this vital part of retirement security. Sincerely, Lloyd Doggett Joe Courtney John Larson Louise Slaughter John Lewis Jan Schakowsky Allyson Schwartz Raul Grijalva Frank Pallone Barney Frank John Tierney Danny Davis Henry Waxman Bobby Scott Kathy Castor Earl Blumenauer Mel Watt Bill Pascrell Elijah Cummings Al Green Janice Hahn Jim McDermott Sheila Jackson Lee Judy Chu Robert Brady Charles Rangel Gene Green Rosa DeLauro Marcia Fudge Corrine Brown Eddie Bernice Johnson Eleanor Holmes Norton John Yarmuth Karen Bass Anna Eshoo Brad Miller Peter DeFazio Mike Honda Ted Deutch Yvette Clarke Sam Farr Adam Schiff José Serrano Bennie Thompson Bobby Rush Alcee Hastings Jim Langevin Keith Ellison Rush Holt Paul Tonko Tim Bishop Peter Welch Bill Keating Chellie Pingree Colleen Hanabusa Jim McGovern Jerrold Nadler Steve Cohen Donna Edwards John Sarbanes Linda Sanchez Doris Matsui Carolyn Maloney Emanuel Cleaver Grace Napolitano Suzanne Bonamici Loretta Sanchez John Garamendi David Cicilline Donald Payne Jackie Speier Maxine Waters Laura Richardson Zoe Lofgren Kerry Bentivolio Lynn Woolsey Russ Carnahan Maurice Hinchey John Olver Betty Sutton Mike Michaud ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.03.2012	The Bronx, NY – December 3, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the National Endowment for the Humanities had awarded three Bronx institutions more than $800,000 in competitive grants for their work. Fordham University was awarded $500,000 to enhance Orthodox Christian Studies. The New York Botanical Gardens was awarded $300,000 toward their endowment for the LuEsther T. Mertz Library's Core Humanities Activities. Finally, the Bronx Zoo/Wildlife Conservation Society was awarded $4,500 to rehouse the Wildlife Conservation Society Archives. “These fabulous Bronx institutions are doing great work in the humanities and the community,” said Congressman Serrano. “These grants are both a recognition of that work, and an investment in its growth. The three subject areas that the grants funded couldn’t be more different, but the core mission of these three organizations couldn’t be more similar. They are in the business of serving people and helping them to learn. From the students who attend Fordham to the visitors to the NY Botanical Gardens and the Bronx Zoo, people engage with these organizations and come away with a greater understanding of the world around them. I believe that investments in these activities is precisely what the National Endowment for the Humanities does best. They have recognized three leaders in the field, and we are lucky that they are all here in the Bronx.” “I cannot think of a finer endorsement of Fordham’s Orthodox Christian Studies program than the prestigious NEH grant we received today. The grant speaks volumes about the quality of scholarship produced in the program,” said Joseph M. McShane, S.J., president of the University. “Fordham, and The Bronx, are well represented by Congressman Serrano, whose tireless advocacy has done much to improve the lives of our neighbors.” "We are very excited to receive this Challenge Grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities, supporting the work of The New York Botanical Garden's LuEsther T. Mertz Library, the largest, most comprehensive botanical and horticultural library in the world," said Gregory Long, CEO and the William C. Steere Sr. President of The New York Botanical Garden. "This award will help develop a special endowment to continue our mission to care for these valuable collections. It will also enable us to continue our efforts to modernize the Library and provide exhibitions and related programming for the public." “Congressman Serrano is a long-time champion for humanities and culture in the Bronx, and we are grateful for his continuing support,” said John Calvelli, WCS Executive Vice President of Public Affairs. “The Wildlife Conservation Society’s Bronx Zoo holds an important place in the history of New York and the Bronx. We thank the NEH for awarding us this grant that will be used to ensure our institution’s historical archives are preserved for future generations.” ###
11.07.2012	The Bronx, NY – November 7, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, reflected on the outcome of the national elections. He said that in a variety of different races and on a variety of different issues, Americans signaled their desire to move forward. “The results of yesterday’s election show that Americans want to continue to move forward on many different issues. They were asking to continue to move the economy in the positive direction that it has been moving for the past 31 months, and asking for progress on other issues. “I was pleased to see both major candidates for President agreeing to withdraw the combat troops from Afghanistan. Americans made it clear an end to their patience for nation building abroad while we need to do nation building here at home. I look forward to a robust debate on where to apply the savings that we garner from ending that war. I will be advocating that we apply it to programs that benefit working families and those with the least in our society. This is the best way to stimulate our economy. “I believe that there was a clear mandate for comprehensive immigration reform. Any party that stands in the way will continue to suffer the electoral consequences, as the pro-immigrant voting bloc continues to expand and flex its muscle at the voting booths. We cannot put the dreams and aspirations of a whole community on hold for any longer. The time has come to move forward on this important issue. “I was particularly impressed with the outcome of the ‘status’ referendum in Puerto Rico. A majority of those voting signaled the desire to change the current territorial status. In a second question an even larger majority asked to become a state. This is an earthquake in Puerto Rican politics. It will demand the attention of Congress, and a definitive answer to the Puerto Rican request for change. This is a history-making moment where voters asked to move forward. “I was heartened to see numerous states voting in favor of marriage equality—following in the footsteps of states like New York that have blazed the trail on this important issue. Yet again we are seeing that the power of love and the belief in family can and will overcome opposition in the end. Little by little, our friends and family in the gay community are finally getting all the rights that our society guarantees. Yesterday on this issue, voters showed that they want to move forward towards a more fair and just society. “Yet again our citizens have shown that they are the true leaders in this nation. They have shown us the direction that they want the country to move. Now those of us who have been honored to hold public office have the responsibility to carry that out. We will continue to move the nation forward. That’s what Americans voted for yesterday.” ###
10.04.2012	The Bronx, NY – October 4, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, Ranking Member on the House Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the District of Columbia budget said that he “supports the DC Council’s proposed referendum to give DC local budget autonomy.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee from 2007 to 2011, Congressman Serrano freed the District of many noxious riders, and even inserted language that would have given the District budget autonomy in his last bill as chairman. That push was caught up in election year politics and did not survive to become law. “I have continually said that the District of Columbia must be allowed to spend its own local tax dollars in the ways that it sees fit without meddling from Congress. The heart of that statement is the belief that the people they elect should make decisions for them and not Members of Congress from other places. No other place in the nation has its local budget dictated by Congress. “By moving to conduct a referendum and amend their charter, the Council will be working within the powers it has been given by the Home Rule Act. Through this process, we will see the direct expression of the DC people’s desire for more direct control over their own affairs. This is democracy at its very core. The process that they have laid out is transparent and fair, and should be respected by Congress once it has taken place. “As the referendum process moves forward, I also hope Congress continues to move towards granting budget autonomy and a vote in Congress to the District. I do not think that the expression of the popular will through a legitimate process should hinder those efforts. We cannot hide the inability of Congress to move forward behind procedural questions—especially questions that would never be raised if citizens of another jurisdiction in our nation were to take a referendum about their local affairs. “It is long past time for the citizens of the District of Columbia to have full local control and a vote in their national government. I applaud the City Council for taking this bold step forward and look forward to supporting their efforts going forward.” ###
10.01.2012	The Bronx, NY – October 1, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano touted the findings of the recently published Center For American Progress study on the effects of passing the DREAM Act, which would give legal status to immigrants brought to the country as children. The study found that in New York State alone, passing the bill would generate 53,500 jobs and nearly $16 billion in new economic activity. “We’ve always known that passing the DREAM Act was the right thing to do from a humanitarian point of view, but today we’ve learned that it also would be a huge economic boost to our state and to our nation,” said Congressman Serrano. “In essence the Center for American Progress found that legalizing the dreams and aspirations of the DREAMers would be a windfall for our nation financially. This yet again proves the point that immigration is a positive economic phenomenon for our national economy, despite what anti-immigration activists say. “The DREAM Act is not comprehensive immigration reform, which is what we desperately need. I would be interested to know the economic effect of a full legalization for all undocumented immigrants. Based on what we learned about the children alone, the positive economic impact of extending citizenship to everyone must be staggering. “We have always had the moral argument on our side in calling for passage of the DREAM Act and comprehensive immigration reform; it’s reassuring to know that we also have the economic argument on our side. Given the state of the slow economic recovery, I think that we can now say ‘if not now, when’ about providing a path to citizenship for the vast numbers of people who came here without papers in search of a better life. Our nation’s economy could use the huge boost that they would provide and in turn they would enjoy a shot at a better life, rather than a life lived in the shadows and in fear. “As we move towards an election, I think it’s very important that people ask politicians to take immigration stances based on facts like those contained in this important study. I believe if they do, they will support a pathway to citizenship--both for children and adults. The time has come to give our economy the boost of granting citizenship to both the DREAMers and their parents. We must not continue to ignore their pleas to be allowed to join the American family.” ###
09.25.2012	The Bronx, NY – September 25, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that CUNY’s Hostos Community College had been awarded more than $1 million in federal grants for their innovative science education programs. The funding, which is awarded by the National Science Foundation, will support two distinguished programs. One is entitled “Project SEED (STEM Educators Expansion Directive) for Candidates in Chemistry and Environmental Science," and the other is “Designing Futures With Games: Game-Framed Mathematics and Science as a Pathway to Multimedia Technology Careers." “The innovative educational activities that Hostos is undertaking with these two programs are truly worthy of federal support,” said Congressman Serrano. “I can think of no better use of our tax dollars than to expand opportunities in technology and the sciences for students at Hostos. Our nation is far too often running behind other nations in these areas, and I believe it is because we do not focus on the vast talent and untapped potential in places like the Bronx. Latinos and African-Americans continue to be underrepresented in the STEM fields, but Hostos is making significant progress in helping link Bronx residents, and those living elsewhere in the City, with careers in technology and the sciences . It’s a matter of great pride in the Bronx community to know that Hostos is leading the way in this vital area. I applaud the Hostos leadership and the dedicated teachers who are making this a reality. Our students and community, as well as our City and nation are going to have a better future because of their outstanding work.” “The NSF grant validates the quality and depth of our faculty, particularly for STEM and reiterates the commitment Hostos has in helping to improve educational outcomes in Bronx K-12 schools,” said President Félix V. Matos Rodríguez of CUNY’s Hostos Community College. “Hostos’ excellence continues to bring much needed resources to the Borough and help improve the quality of life.” “Students are our most precious resource as a nation,” added Serrano. “We must ensure that they are given the very best instruction and support as they make their way through our educational system. In supporting them, we are ensuring the future leadership of our nation in so many different areas. We know that innovative teaching is the key to supporting these future scientists and technology wizards. It is a great pleasure to support these educational programs because I know we are creating a generation of skilled people for whom no challenge is too great.” ###
09.25.2012	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; President Danilo Medina of the Dominican Republic; State Senator Adriano Espaillat; other prominent New York and Dominican elected officials and community leaders. WHEN: Tuesday, September 25, 2012, 8 p.m. WHERE: South Beach Restaurant and Lounge, 1390 Saint Nicholas Avenue, New York, NY. WHAT: Congressman Serrano will join with prominent New York leaders in welcoming the newly elected President of the Dominican Republic, the Honorable Danilo Medina to New York. President Medina will be visiting with the leaders at the newly-opened South Beach Restaurant and Lounge in the heart of Washington Heights, which is the center of the Dominican Diaspora and community in New York. Brief remarks will be given. ###
08.15.2012	The Bronx, NY – August 15, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined the chorus of pro-immigrant voices encouraging undocumented children and young adults to consider applying for deferred immigration action and study or work authorization, allowing them to stay in the country with permission. “Today is a joyous day in our community as thousands of children and young adults who have been living in fear and suspense can finally begin to lead full lives without fear of deportation,” said Congressman Serrano. “President Obama’s plan will give them a chance to complete their studies and to work legally. They will be eligible for student aid and will no longer find that graduation means a dead end. Their dreams and aspirations can now start to become a reality. This is a huge benefit for them and for our country. Our immigration system will finally be taking a step forward, after many long years of destructive policies that have hurt the immigrant community and our nation as a whole.” On Wednesday, the US Customs and Immigration Service will begin accepting applications for deferred action from those people who are eligible. To be eligible for a two year deferral of any proceedings, the person must: Be under the age of 31 (as of June 15, 2012); Have entered the United States before age 16; Have lived continuously in the country for the past five years; Have not been convicted of a felony, a “significant” misdemeanor, or three other misdemeanors; and Currently be in school, graduated from high school, earned a GED, or served in the military; Pay processing fees. “President Obama is helping families and individuals across the nation and showing true leadership in the face of obstruction,” added Congressman Serrano. “This is not the full DREAM Act, but it is as close as we will come with Republicans in control of the House of Representatives. Our children can now move on with their lives and live without the risk of being deported. Our community has been asking for policy changes for years, and it is quite exciting to see it take effect today.” According to the U.S. Immigration Policy Center, in New York State at least 70,000 young people are eligible to take advantage of this new policy. That includes at least 55,000 people ages 15-30, and 15,000 ages 5-14. According to these estimates, New York has the 4th highest number of eligible children, following California, Texas and Florida. “As with all immigration-related processes, it is of utmost importance that people seek counsel and advice from reputable sources, and to avoid potential scams,” said Serrano. “I encourage the use of Board of Immigration Appeals accredited organizations and representatives. These are trustworthy sources for advice and counsel. ” A list of the organizations and representatives that are recognized and accredited within NY State can be found here: http://www.justice.gov/eoir/statspub/raroster_files/raroster_orgs_reps_state_city.htm#NEW+YORK “Today is a great day for our nation as we see a generation of young people moving closer to becoming the full members of our society that they deserve to be,” Serrano concluded. “On behalf of the federal government I urge those eligible to apply so they can begin to work or continue to go to school without fear of deportation. On behalf of our community, I say thank you to President Obama.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented The Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a co-sponsor of the DREAM Act, along with other pro-immigrant legislation.
07.13.2012	The Bronx, NY – July 13, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Bronx Community Health Network would be the recipient of more than $1 million in federal funding for their ongoing efforts to prevent, treat, and manage HIV/AIDS in the Bronx. “The work the Bronx Community Health Network carries out in the fight against HIV and AIDS is exemplary and deserving of the support that our government is giving to it,” said Congressman Serrano. “Their model, which treats the whole patient, is the way medicine should be practiced. It is particularly important in the cases where people have HIV/AIDS. They need more comprehensive care than others might in order to successfully manage their disease. Through management of existing infections and education of those not infected, BCHN is doing extremely important work to roll back the spread of this deadly disease. This grant will empower them to continue that vital work.” “Care of patients with HIV/AIDS and prevention of infection in people who are at high risk of developing HIV/AIDs is an essential part of the BCHN mission,” said Dr. Jay Izes, Chief Medical Officer of the Bronx Community Health Network. “This competitive grant renewal reflects HRSA’s evaluation of the innovative, patient-centered care that we provide.” “We are privileged to play a part in preventing the spread of the virus by educating our community and keeping healthy those who are already living with HIV/AIDS,” said Eleanor Larrier, MPH, who is CEO of Bronx Community Health Network. The $1.043 million grant was issued by the Health Resources and Services Administration under Title 3 of the Ryan White Act. Congressman Serrano worked for reauthorization of the deeply important Ryan White Act, which funds most of the HIV/AIDS-specific health care and prevention in the nation. “We must continue to fight HIV/AIDS in the community, the nation and the world,” added Serrano. “We know that the best prevention methods are education and treatment, and BCHN is carrying out those tasks with distinction. I am very pleased to help announce this award, because I know that it will save lives in our community. And ultimately that is what the fight against HIV/AIDS is about: saving lives.” ###
07.11.2012	Washington, DC – July 11, 2012 – Today, as he voted yet again against another Republican effort to repeal President Obama’s health care reform package, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his disappointment and disgust at the ongoing, politically-motivated campaign to overturn the historic law. “Today’s vote is a slap in the face of the American people,” said Congressman Serrano. “They are suffering from the effects of a weak economic recovery, and need help with jobs. Rather than addressing economic problems, which polls show is the top priority of the American people, Republicans have yet again voted to repeal Obamacare. It seems that they are so motivated by their partisan rage at Obamacare that they cannot believe that the law is here to stay, and cannot admit that it’s time to move on to more pressing issues. “The American people are already seeing the positive benefits of the new law. As we move forward they will see more and more benefits. For instance, they will be guaranteed by law that they won’t lose insurance coverage right when they need it most. Nor will they be prevented from getting insurance due to pre-existing conditions. Both these protections will relieve people of the fear that medical catastrophes will become financial nightmares. These benefits are real, and repealing the law would take them away.” According to House Democratic experts, over the past two years, Americans have already seen the positive impact of new patient protections as: • Up to 17 million children are no longer denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. • 6.6 million young people have obtained insurance through their parents’ plans. • 5.3 million seniors have already saved $3.7 billion on prescription drugs. • 105 million Americans no longer face lifetime limits on their insurance coverage. “With statistics like these, you can understand why repealing the law is such a bad idea,” added Serrano. “It’s time for Republicans to stop their futile quest to undo Obamacare and begin to work with Democrats to create jobs. We know that is what the American people want us to do.” ###
06.28.2012	Washington, DC – June 28, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his relief and satisfaction that the Supreme Court had upheld key points of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the health care overhaul that he voted with Democrats to pass during the last Congress. “Today’s ruling is a relief and validation that our work to extend health care to all Americans was indeed properly carried out. As I said when we passed this law, now our children, the sick, the unfortunate, and the destitute will have a path to decent, affordable health care coverage. Our nation will be more economically stable and more compassionate towards those suffering. No longer will people have to fear that a medical calamity will also wipe out all their savings or cause them to lose a house. “We have seen that our system has worked—Congress passed a law, people felt that it might be unconstitutional, the lower courts were split, and the Supreme Court settled the question. Our system of government has yet again proven itself able to rise above partisanship. “I urge my Republican colleagues to now work with us to improve this law, and to stop their efforts to repeal it. It is time to admit that this law, much of which is based on Republican ideas, is valid and proper, and above all, necessary. The time has come for them to work together with us to solve problems rather than to continue a partisan quest to undo President Obama’s key achievements. “Our nation is strongest when we work together and look out for one another. This was the premise of the Affordable Care Act. With today’s ruling, I believe our nation will be stronger both in terms of the health and well-being of our citizens, and also people’s faith in our system of government. Today we have seen a full and complete victory for the American people.” ###
06.25.2012	Washington, DC – June 25, 2012 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano responded to the Supreme Court's decision in Arizona v. United States. Serrano called the decision a "partial victory in our immigration debate," but remained very concerned that allowing implementation of Section 2(B) will result in racial profiling. "Today is a partial victory in our immigration debate," said Serrano. "Much of Arizona's immigration law is designed to keep undocumented immigrants in the shadows of our society, and I was heartened to see several extremely onerous provisions were overturned. Immigration policy is an area of law that the federal government has already spoken on, and States should not attempt to add a patchwork of additional burdensome and troubling policies. The Court has spoken clearly today against States attempting to undermine federal immigration laws." "I remain deeply concerned that Section 2(B) of Arizona's law was allowed to stand. It is my belief that this section of the law will lead to rampant racial profiling, and that it is clearly unconstitutional. However, this provision is currently being challenged in court on those other constitutional grounds, and the Court warned that construction of this provision may bring it into conflict with federal immigration laws. I believe it is inevitable that this provision will eventually be overturned, and I know that those of us who advocate for fair and just immigration policies will continue to fight against it. "I believe that the lasting impact of this ruling is that it shows the continued need for comprehensive immigration reform, and a more humane and just immigration policy. Congress needs to step up to the plate on this issue." ###
06.20.2012	June 20, 2012 The Financial Services and General Government bill funds vitally important programs for consumers, taxpayers, small businesses, and investors. The bill also funds our federal judiciary, and provides federal support to our nation's Capital. I want to thank Chairwoman Emerson for her willingness to work with our side of the aisle on this bill. She has been a true friend and partner in this process, and although we sometimes disagree, she has always been open and willing to hear my concerns. I believe that she has done her best to produce a good bill. In particular, I want to commend her for removing a number of controversial riders that were included in last year's bill. Additionally, I am particularly pleased that the Chairwoman has included the Administration's request of $221 million in funding for the Community Financial Development Institutions Fund, which provides important economic development funding for underserved communities. Chairwoman Emerson has also included a significant increase for the Small Business Administration, which will help our nation's small businesses lead the way in our ongoing economic recovery. I am particularly thankful that she has restored proposed cuts to the PRIME and Microloan programs. However, there are some serious flaws in this bill- mostly due to the difficult 302(b) allocation that Chairwoman Emerson has been given. Because of leadership's decision not to abide by the 1.047 trillion dollar discretionary funding level that was agreed to in the Budget Control Act, this subcommittee's 302(b) allocation is $376 million less than in FY 2012. Even more troubling, this allocation is more than $1.84 billion less than the level our counterparts in the Senate received. As a result, there are numerous programs that are not adequately funded in this bill. For instance, the IRS is flat funded at $11.816 billion, which is 944.5 million dollars below the request. Last year's funding level for the IRS was insufficient, and it is no better in fiscal year 2013. As a result of the identical funding level in today's bill, in FY 2012 the IRS was unable to collect more than 4 billion dollars owed to the government, and was forced to cut more than 5,000 staff. We should be filling the holes from the IRS's budget from last year, rather than entrenching them. The IRS brings in the vast majority of our nation's revenue, and this budget does not give them the tools to continue doing so. I am also extremely concerned about the level of funding at the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although the SEC receives a $50 million increase from last year, this increase is essentially offset by restrictions placed on the SEC Reserve Fund. Moreover, this level of funding is nearly 200 million dollars below the Administration's request. America's investors need a strong cop on the beat to ensure that past abuses are not repeated, and to ensure that the SEC's new powers under Dodd-Frank are vigorously enforced. The funding level in this bill is inadequate given these needs. I'm also troubled by the 50% cut in funding for the Election Assistance Commission. We are in an election year, and the guidance and advice provided by this agency is vital to many states and localities. There are a number of other parts of the government that are underfunded in this bill, including the Federal Judiciary, the Federal Communications Commission, and the Federal Trade Commission. All the agencies mentioned above are part of a troubling pattern in this bill of underfunding the very entities that help our government obtain revenue, protect Americans from abusive practices, and ensure a fair playing field for all. And while Chairwoman Emerson has removed many controversial riders that have been added to this bill in past years, there are still some riders here that our side is very concerned about. First and foremost, this bill continues a ban on the District of Columbia from being able to use its own funds to pay for abortions. No other locality in the nation has such intrusive interference from Congress. Additionally, in subcommittee we had a vigorous debate over a rider that prevents the FCC from implementing its recently announced rule requiring the posting of political file information online. I had intended to once again offer an amendment to remove this provision, but my understanding is that this may be taken care of this morning. This would be an important step in favor of disclosure and transparency. I strongly suspect that by the end of this process, we will end up with a much higher funding level for this bill that what we are looking at today, and that many of the most troubling issues in this bill will be resolved. However, under the current funding levels in the bill, several agencies will be unable to perform the basic functions that the American people expect of them. ###
06.15.2012	The Bronx, NY – June 15, 2012 – Congressman José E. Serrano today issued a statement in support of President Obama’s move to stop deporting immigrant children and to allow them to stay in the country and continue school and work. “Today President Obama moved our nation toward a more fair, decent and humane deportation policy,” said Congressman Serrano. “Children who were brought here at a young age bear no blame for the decisions their parents made, and to deport them was unreasonable and unfortunate. Now we will see these children able to apply to stay in the country to go to school and work. He has taken the basic premise of the DREAM Act, and made it Administration policy. This is a huge step towards a realistic immigration policy. “The children who will benefit from this new policy will be able to contribute to our society in countless ways. They will now not have to fear that they will be sent back to countries that they sometimes don’t even remember. We are bringing close to 800,000 children out of the shadows, out of fear, and out of a life under threat of deportation. “President Obama deserves great praise for making this decision. He is standing up to the anti-immigrant forces that would deport everyone without regard to circumstance. President Obama is standing up for what is right, what is decent, and what is fair. He is also making a decision that is in the best interests of our nation in the short- and long-run. These immigrant children will add so much to our nation as have so many immigrants before them. “On behalf of the many children and families in our community who will benefit from this decision, I say to President Obama, ‘thank you.’” We are grateful and we look forward to working to pass comprehensive immigration reform to fix the status issues of the rest of the community. In the meantime, we have just seen a tremendous weight lifted from the shoulders of many children and families. The President did the right thing.” ###
06.14.2012	The Bronx, NY – June 14, 2012 – Congressman José E. Serrano today issued the following statement on the Senate vote to finally move to confirm Ambassador Mari Carmen Aponte as ambassador to El Salvador. “Ambassador Aponte today was treated with the dignity and respect that she deserved,” said Congressman Serrano. “I applaud the Senate for ending the filibuster against this fine candidate. Ambassador Aponte is extremely well-qualified and has proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that she has the skills and the temperament to serve as our nation’s top diplomatic representative to El Salvador. Today’s vote shows that despite the past roadblocks thrown up by opponents, Ambassador Aponte’s qualifications and resume have won out over their partisan concerns. “During her time as the recess-appointment ambassador to El Salvador, Ambassador Aponte served with distinction. The Senate Republicans’ filibuster of her nomination was based on very shaky pretenses, and greatly distressed our community, who looked to Ambassador Aponte as one of our most qualified foreign relations experts. She answered all their concerns with forthrightness and clarity during her nomination hearings, and it later became clear that partisan forces focused on issues beyond her qualifications were at work. It was a sad day to see such an outstanding nominee treated with such blatant partisanship. “I congratulate Ambassador Aponte on this important step forward and applaud her fortitude in tolerating the treatment that she underwent in this process. As Puerto Ricans and Americans, we are proud to know that we will have her represent our nation abroad and look forward to the fine work she will do on our behalf.” ###
06.12.2012	The Bronx, NY – June 12, 2012 – Congressman José E. Serrano today issued the following statement on the passing of legendary Puerto Rican community activist and leader Yolanda Sánchez. “Yolanda was a visionary, who showed us the meaning of the word ‘activist’ throughout her life,” said Congressman Serrano. “She saw problems in her community that others did not know how to fix and began campaigns and organizations that often fixed far more than the initial problem they set out to address. Her organizing powers and her deep-set commitment to empowering the community led her to the front of many of the battles for equality and justice. “The question of what it means to be Puerto Rican and a New Yorker was a fascination of hers, and it led her to extraordinary work highlighting the identity that we share. Our community, which has learned to be so strong together, was not always this way. It took the work of people like Yolanda to illuminate and to educate and to bring us together through our shared experiences, our shared problems, and our shared history. We know better who we are because of the work she did, and we owe her a great debt of gratitude. “Yolanda lived her life in service of others, and her example led a great many of us to activism and to organizing, and later to service and leadership. She dedicated herself to equality for our community, to equality for women, and to the empowerment of individuals. We cannot let the power of her exemplary leadership on these issues fade away, but instead must always strive to live up to her example in all that we do. “It is fitting that Yolanda survived until the day after the National Puerto Rican Day Parade, which is the day on which we celebrate our community and everything positive that it represents. Yolanda did so much throughout her life to give power to those aspects of the Puerto Rican identity which we celebrated this past weekend. She was a leading light and tireless advocate for the people and the community that she knew and loved. She will be missed but not forgotten. ###
06.07.2012	Washington, DC – June 7, 2012 – Congressman José E. Serrano today joined with community groups in asking that the Sheridan-Hunts Point Land Use and Transportation Study (SEHP) continue to include the “full removal” option for the Sheridan Expressway; an option which had been deemed unfeasible by the City Department of Transportation and removed from further study on May 10th. Serrano, who helped secure the TIGER II grant to fund the study and the community engagement, called the decision “premature” and “not in keeping with the aims of a full, realistic study of all the options.” “I stand with the community in saying that taking any option off the table at this time is premature,” said Congressman Serrano. “When we helped secure the grant for this study, we envisioned a full study of all the options, not one where a challenging option like the removal is quickly discounted. We know that there are difficulties with removing the Sheridan, but we are interested in knowing how that could be accomplished, not hearing that it is too difficult to even continue studying. I urge the City to reconsider and resume studying all options for the Sheridan Expressway. “This process is about finding creative solutions to potential problems and moving towards a plan that the community and the City and State can agree is in the best interests of all involved. We do need to preserve truck access to Hunts Point even as we work to reduce the numbers of trucks moving through our borough. We must ensure there are not more trucks or traffic on side streets. This may take some difficult problem-solving. It may involve new construction in order to free up the community from the threat of increase truck and vehicle traffic. But our borough deserves a fair shot at reclaiming the land under the Sheridan and we should not have any options taken off the table in these early phases of serious study. “Our community has spent years dealing with the burden of much of the unwanted activities from other parts of the city. We have begun to reclaim natural spaces and to improve the physical spaces in the Bronx. This study of the Sheridan Expressway is an integral part of that movement towards equity for our borough in our environment. It is not right to remove a potentially life-changing option from this study. I urge the City to put that option back in and work towards solutions and positive outcomes. Our borough deserves no less.” ###
06.06.2012	The Financial Services and General Government bill funds vitally important programs for consumers, taxpayers, small businesses, and investors. The bill also funds our federal judiciary, and provides federal support to our nation's Capital. I want to thank Chairwoman Emerson for her willingness to work with our side of the aisle on this bill. She has been a true friend and partner in this process, and although we sometimes disagree, she has always been open and willing to hear my concerns. I believe that she has done her best to produce a good bill. In particular, I want to commend her for removing a number of controversial riders that were included in last year's bill. Additionally, I am particularly pleased that the Chairwoman has included the Administration's request of $221 million in funding for the Community Financial Development Institutions Fund, which provides important economic development funding for underserved communities. Chairwoman Emerson has also included a significant increase for the Small Business Administration, which will help our nation's small businesses lead the way in our ongoing economic recovery. I am particularly thankful that she has restored proposed cuts to the PRIME and Microloan programs. However, there are some serious flaws in this bill- mostly due to the difficult 302(b) allocation that Chairwoman Emerson has been given. Because of leadership's decision not to abide by the 1.047 trillion dollar discretionary funding level that was agreed to in the Budget Control Act, this subcommittee's 302(b) allocation is $376 million less than in FY 2012. Even more troubling, this allocation is more than $1.84 billion less than the level our counterparts in the Senate received. As a result, there are numerous programs that are not adequately funded in this bill. I strongly suspect that by the end of this process, we will end up with a much higher funding level for this bill that what we are looking at today. However, under the current levels in the bill, several agencies will be unable to perform the basic functions that the American people expect of them. For instance, the IRS is flat funded at $11.816 billion, which is 944.5 million dollars below the request. Last year's funding level for the IRS was insufficient, and it is no better in fiscal year 2013. We should be filling the holes from the IRS's budget from last year, rather than entrenching them. The IRS brings in the vast majority of our nation's revenue, and this budget does not give them the tools to continue doing so. I am also concerned about the level of funding at the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although the SEC receives a $50 million increase from last year, this increase is essentially offset by restrictions placed on the SEC Reserve Fund. Moreover, this level of funding is nearly 200 million dollars below the Administration's request. America's investors need a strong cop on the beat to ensure that past abuses are not repeated, and to ensure that the SEC's new powers under Dodd-Frank are vigorously enforced. This level of funding is inadequate given these needs. I'm also troubled by the 50% cut in funding for the Election Assistance Commission. We are in an election year, and the guidance and advice provided by this agency is vital to many states and localities. And while Chairwoman Emerson has removed many controversial riders that have been added to this bill in past years, there are still some riders here that our side is very concerned about. First and foremost, I am concerned about a rider that prevents the FCC from implementing its recently announced rule requiring the posting of political file information online. This information is already available in paper format, and it is entirely reasonable to make it accessible online, especially when there is little actual cost to doing so. I intend to offer an amendment this morning to remove this provision from the bill. Additionally, this bill continues a ban on the District of Columbia from being able to use its own funds to pay for abortions. No other locality in the nation has such intrusive interference from Congress. As this bill moves through the process, our side will offer amendments to address these concerns. I remain hopeful we will be able to work out these differences as the bill moves forward.
05.14.2012	The Bronx, NY – May 14, 2012 – Congressman José E. Serrano today issued the following statement on the expansion of the so-called “Secure Communities” deportation program to the entire state of New York, despite the efforts of Serrano, Governor Andrew Cuomo and other leaders to withdraw New York from the controversial program. “As we see ‘Secure Communities’ expand to the whole state of New York against our citizens’ and elected official wishes, we continue to call for an immediate suspension of this flawed deportation program. Time and again we see this program splitting up families, deporting immigrants for minor offenses, and generally making our communities less secure. It is increasingly clear that the program is targeting all immigrants, rather than just those involved with violent crimes. It is a dragnet and causes real suffering. It must be ended. “It was not long ago that I was speaking out in support of Governor Cuomo’s decision to try to withdraw New York from this program. I was appalled that after the rollout of the program, in which it was described as optional, we heard from Immigration and Customs Enforcement that in fact they considered it mandatory, and would not respect the Governor’s wishes. Neither our city nor our state – where so many generations of immigrants have arrived – is interested in participating in a heavy-handed anti-immigrant deportation program. Our wishes should be respected. “So, I join with the groups protesting today in saying that this program must end and must end now. We do not want to see any more families broken up. We do not want to see any more children living without their parents. Our communities are secure without this horrible program. It must end.” ###
05.10.2012	Washington, DC – Responding to the troubling findings of a new PBS documentary, "Crossing the Line at the Border," 16 members of Congress called for justice in the tragic case of Anastasio Hernandez-Rojas and reiterated the need for tougher oversight of Border Patrol personnel to end the abuse of people in the agency’s custody. In letters to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Attorney General Eric Holder and the DHS Office of the Inspector General, they sought answers to pressing questions about Customs and Border Protection’s policies regarding the use of force and the investigation of cases of brutality. The full text of the letters can be found here: DHS, DHS IG, DOJ. “The disturbing footage and eye-witness accounts that aired on PBS raise serious questions about the Border Patrol’s role in the death of Anastacio Hernandez-Rojas and after two years, we owe it to his family to finally provide some definitive answers,” said Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA). “In light of this new evidence, I call on the Justice Department to complete its protracted investigation and take appropriate action.” “The violent nature of Mr. Hernandez-Rojas’ death, combined with the troubling accounts from witnesses and the newly discovered video of the incident, means that this case merits a full and honest investigation,” said Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY). “I believe that CBP policies need a full review, followed by appropriate reforms. Any ambiguity or lack of accountability that could lead to violence must be eliminated. Our letters make it clear that in the wake of this troubling event and others like it, we must have answers and ensure that such incidents are not repeated by any federal agency.” “The disturbing case of Anastacio Hernandez Rojas highlights the tragic consequences of the failed strategy of militarizing our border,” said Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO). “While protecting our border is an essential part of fixing our broken immigration system, enforcement alone won’t fix the problem.” “A thorough investigation must be launched concerning the death of Anastacio Hernandez Rojas and the officers involved,” said Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ). “We need to identify, address and correct the larger issues surrounding this incident to ensure that this will not happen again.” "For years I have heard serious concerns expressed by the communities along the border that the Border Patrol is occasionally violent and only rarely accountable," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. "In the immigration reform bills I have introduced with the support of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I have called for greater oversight, transparency, and accountability from the Border Patrol precisely for instances like this where excessive force and secrecy combine into a mixture that is toxic to democracy. I hope this incident leads to concrete reforms that prevent such a tragedy from ever happening again." Hernandez-Rojas was killed in June 2010 at a border crossing near San Diego after being struck repeatedly with a baton and tazed five times by Border Patrol agents. While the Patrol subsequently insisted that Hernandez-Rojas—a long-term resident of the United States with five U.S. citizen children—was resisting, cell phone footage and eye-witness testimony gathered by PBS indicate that he was already handcuffed and lying on the ground when agents accosted him. Hernandez-Rojas’s tragic death was ruled a homicide by the San Diego Police Department and soon after, the Justice Department launched its own investigation. However, almost two years later, no arrests have been made in the case. Statistics obtained by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General (DHS OIG) show that since 2004, 132 Customs and Border Protection (CBP) employees have been convicted of crimes, with 26 arrests and 14 convictions in the past year alone. As a result, the pending Fiscal Year 2013 Homeland Security Appropriations bill mandates a Government Accountability Office audit of Customs and Border Protection ethics, conduct and integrity training programs. ###
05.09.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on marriage equality following President Obama’s statement today that he supports same-sex marriage. “I fully agree with President Obama in his support for marriage equality,” said Congressman Serrano. “His support reflects the changes in our nation, where we now see more than half our citizens support same-sex marriage rights. I am proud to see the President come to this new position. Similarly, I was very proud when my home state of New York extended the right last summer. There is simply no reason why any loving couple should be denied the right to marry. I believe that we will soon see this right extended to all American citizens and I will continue to work towards that end.” Congressman Serrano voted to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell; an effort which was successfully signed into law by President Obama in 2010. Serrano is an original co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, which would repeal the Defense of Marriage Act. ###
05.08.2012	Additional Grants for Upward Bound Program Will Continue for 5 years Total Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that the Department of Education had funded grants for Upward Bound programs at Bronx Community College and Fordham University for the coming year, and will likely fund the programs for five years total. In the first year, BCC will receive $479,000 and Fordham will receive $379,000. The Upward Bound program helps prepare students in underserved communities to apply for college and to be prepared academically when they arrive at college. “These Upward Bound programs deserve the full support of the federal government because the work that they carry out is vital for our high-achieving students in the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “Fordham and BCC are the perfect participants in a program that is directed at low-income and first generation college students. This funding will help students prepare for college studies by focusing on math, science, English, and writing and also help with ongoing tutoring and mentoring. The 5 year commitment by the Department of Education will ensure that BCC and Fordham are able to hire the best people and create the best programs possible with less uncertainty. “I am proud that we have such great institutions carrying out this mission in our community and I applaud them for their work. Their efforts to make sure that the Bronx is a better place are truly inspiring, and are vital to our borough and its future success. Father Joseph McShane and President Carole Berotte Joseph deserve praise for their work to guide their respective institutions to do this fine work with the best and brightest of our community.” “The Upward Bound grants are an important rung on the ladder of educational and social mobility,” said Joseph M. McShane, S.J., president of Fordham University. “Fordham has historically educated first-generation college students from families of modest means. This grant helps us continue our mission among students who may have the fewest education options.” “Bronx Community College is excited to learn that it has been awarded an Upward Bound grant that will allow us to continue to provide services to students in four high schools in the Bronx,” said Dr. Carole M. Berotte Joseph, president of Bronx Community College. “The Upward Bound program will offer a variety of services to students in grades 9 – 12 who come from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Many are first-generation college aspirants. This grant will allow us to support them in high school, through graduation, and into the college of their choice.” “The best resource the Bronx has for a bright future are its children,” added Congressman Serrano. “Despite the disadvantages that some start with, time and again, Bronx kids have gone on to huge accomplishments. The Upward Bound program will ensure that children over the next several years are given the support and help that they need to go on to successful secondary education careers and ultimately successful lives. There is nothing better that we can do for our community than to help our children to succeed. ###
04.27.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano voted against the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (H.R. 3523) yesterday because of concerns about its effects on civil liberties and privacy. Despite a majority of Democrats voting in opposition, the House passed the bill by a margin of 248-168. “I recognize the need protect our nation from cyber attacks and information security threats, but I could not support this bill as it was written,” said Serrano. “We must ensure that we are not overreacting to threats –real and perceived—and undermining the privacy rights of law-abiding internet users. We should be narrowly targeting solutions to the threats we face, instead of broadly undermining our citizens’ privacy protections and preventing accountability for misuse of people's information. I stand with President Obama in my opposition to this bill, because we must maintain a free and open internet while building our cyber-defenses. This bill fails to accomplish these goals. “I am disappointed that Republicans, who control the flow of legislation and amendments on the House floor, were unwilling to allow debate and votes on several important amendments that would have addressed some of the bill’s shortcomings. The few amendments that they did allow did not address these serious concerns. The sad part is that we could have easily passed a targeted bill that took solid, non-controversial steps to increase our security. Instead they offered this unacceptable bill. The fact of the matter is that by passing a bill that the President opposes, Republicans are only delaying action towards increasing internet security in the United States.” ###
04.10.2012	Washington, DC – Upon hearing the news that Puerto Rico’s Cardinal Luis Aponte Martinez had passed away, Congressman José E. Serrano joined the Puerto Rican community in mourning. “We mourn the loss of Puerto Rico's Cardinal Luis Aponte Martinez, whose message was always one of peace and unity within the Puerto Rican family,” said Congressman Serrano. “Cardinal Aponte was the first Puerto Rican to become a cardinal, and he served ably and with great distinction in that role over many years. From his days as a priest in the 1950s through his time as Archbishop of San Juan and as Cardinal, he always reminded us that our people must come together and seek common ground. “His message was very powerful as he worked to ensure the unity of people on the island. With ongoing political divisions, it is always important to remember that we have much more in common than that which separates us. He reminded us that though we may disagree on many issues, we always must reunite in the common bonds of peace and goodwill. “Cardinal Aponte had a lasting effect on the Puerto Rican people as they looked to him as both a religious leader and a humble, decent person leading a life of service. Our Puerto Rican family was made more whole by the work that he did and the message that he preached, and we are grateful for that. Cardinal Aponte may be gone, but his message will live on in the hearts and minds of the Puerto Ricans that he served and led for so many years.” ###
03.30.2012	Washington, DC – Paloma Izquierdo-Hernandez will be honored by the Imagen Foundation for her outstanding accomplishments and contributions in her community during the “Latina Leaders Celebration” in Washington, DC tonight. Congressman José E. Serrano nominated Ms. Izquierdo-Hernandez, who is the CEO of Urban Health Plan, a growing network of community health centers in the Bronx. “Paloma is the essence of a strong Bronx leader, who is dedicated to improving health care access in her community,” said Congressman Serrano. “It was an easy decision to nominate her for this award, because her vision for a Bronx where no one lacks access to health care services is so important, and she has done so much to bring it to reality. As a direct result of her efforts, there are fewer people suffering from health issues in the Bronx. “The successes of Urban Health Plan are not just limited to expanding access. Paloma has led the organization to attack specific problems that people in the Bronx suffer in disproportionate numbers. For instance, several years ago, UHP began to take on the high rates of asthma in our community. Their work brought down emergency room visits significantly, and led to a marked increase in quality of life for the people who had been so fearful of a bad asthma attack. This model of an all-out effort to reduce the serious problem of asthma in the Bronx has been used as an example around the nation. “I am so gratified that Paloma will be receiving this award tonight. She deserves it, and she deserves all the praise that comes along with it. The Bronx has health problems, like any community, but it also has a special person in Paloma who is offering quality solutions to those health issues. Not every community has a leader like her, and the people of the Bronx are very lucky to have her working on their behalf every day.” ###
03.30.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the confirmation of Ambassador Julissa Reynoso by the United States Senate yesterday. Ambassador Reynoso will now formally represent the United States as ambassador to Uruguay. “Ambassador Reynoso is so very qualified for this post and I applaud the Senate for confirming her to the position,” said Congressman Serrano. “This proud example of a Bronx-raised Dominican woman is among the best and the brightest that our community has to offer—and it is fitting that she is now representing our nation abroad. She is a leader and an example. We are so very proud of her. “Rising as she did from a newly arrived immigrant to a Harvard-, Cambridge-, and Columbia-educated scholar with a masters and a law degree, Ambassador Reynoso is an outstanding example of what hard work and talent can bring to a person growing up in the Bronx. “I was glad to be able to be present at her confirmation hearing last month. As usual, Ambassador Reynoso represented herself extraordinarily well. Those opposing her nomination were hard-pressed to find a substantive flaw in her background or her testimony. It was clear that she would be an outstanding representative of our nation in Uruguay. Now the full Senate has confirmed this. “Our community is very proud to be able to look to another strong Latina in a position of great responsibility and power. On behalf of the people of the Bronx I say congratulations to Ambassador Reynoso.” ###
03.23.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement concerning the death of Trayvon Martin in Florida and subsequent lack of an arrest or charges in the case. “It is clear to me that Trayvon Martin’s killing merited an arrest and the filing of charges,” said Serrano. “This child was walking home from the store with candy. I fail to see how he could have posed a threat to a man with a gun – who had been told by the police to stop following him. Regardless of the “stand your ground” law in Florida, I believe that the person who took his life should be arrested and charged with a crime, and a jury should decide whether he is guilty or not. It defies reason to say that you can follow a child down the street, end up killing him and never face justice. That lack of consequence in unacceptable in our nation, and smacks of a justice system gone awry. “I am heartened to hear that Attorney General Eric Holder has deployed the resources of the Justice Department to investigate and potentially bring a charges in this matter. It’s a sad situation that local law enforcement could not handle this issue correctly, which unfortunately reminds many people of a not-too-distant past, where only federal resources could ensure fair treatment of minorities. Like so many others, I had hoped that we were past that point in our nation’s history. “My heart goes out to the family of Trayvon, who lost a son, and have had to face the possibility that the person who killed him could continue to walk free. I applaud them for their persistence in denouncing the injustice that the system is perpetrating upon their son’s memory. I hope that Attorney General Holder can help them by bringing appropriate charges and closing this case. We must heed the family’s calls for justice and for truth. Our nation is called to that purpose and we must listen and act.” ###
03.05.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today questioned Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission Jon Leibowitz at an annual budget hearing in front of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee on issues of consumer fairness with regards to companies’ treatment of customers in Puerto Rico. Chairman Leibowitz committed that his agency would look into the matter and ensure that Puerto Rican customers were not being treated unfairly by large corporations. “I have long been concerned that certain companies may have different standards for customers in Puerto Rico than in other places in our nation,” said Congressman Serrano. “I am unhappy with the thought of American citizens being treated differently simply because of where they placed an order with a national retailer. I understand that there could be different shipping costs and other factors, but every effort must be made to ensure fairness and equality for all American consumers regardless of location. I am very gratified to know that the Federal Trade Commission will look into this issue, report to me what it finds, and take appropriate action.” Congressman Serrano is the senior Democrat on the powerful Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the annual budget of a number of agencies including the Federal Trade Commission. While sitting on the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Serrano has placed special emphasis on ensuring that all agencies treat the territories fairly and equitably in all matters. ###
02.28.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today questioned Attorney General Eric Holder about the growing concern of civil rights activists over the “stop and frisk” policies of the New York City Police Department, which are statistically shown to disproportionately target individuals of color who are overwhelmingly innocent. Serrano pressed AG Holder on whether the civil rights division of the Justice Department was planning to or already investigating the policy and its effects. Holder responded that they are aware of the issue but do not have an open investigation. “I raised the ‘stop and frisk’ issue with Attorney General Holder because there is a growing sense in our community that the policy is discriminatory in practice, and is an infringement on constitutional rights,” said Serrano. “Mr. Holder told me that the Department of Justice, and particularly its Civil Rights Division, are aware of the problem, but do not have an open investigation. I believe that the pattern has been clearly shown to infringe in a material way the civil rights of African-Americans and Latinos in New York City, and as a result should be banned.” “I have been hearing from constituents and community leaders that this policy is causing a crisis within our City. It is time for the Mayor and the Police Commissioner to put this policy on hold and study how best to overhaul procedures so that we can ensure that innocent people are not being unfairly targeted. Ours is a city of tolerance and respect, and when one group is constantly singled out for unwanted searches by the police department, we have to change course. If the City and Police Department are unwilling or unable to undertake these needed changes to policy on their own, it is time for the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice to step in and press the issue. “I know that AG Holder shares my commitment to civil rights. I hope that through the questions that I asked him today, we will get the Department of Justice to begin to scrutinize this unfortunate policy and examine how they can help. The kids walking down the street doing nothing wrong deserve the constitutional protections that they are guaranteed, and at a certain point, only federal officials can help.” ###
02.09.2012	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano Senator José M. Serrano District Attorney Robert T. Johnson Assemblyman Carl E. Heastie NYC Community Garden Coalition President Karen Washington The Bronx Council On The Arts Executive Director Deirdre Scott WHEN: Friday, February 10th at 10 am WHERE: Bronx Office of Congressman Serrano, 1231 Lafayette Avenue 4th Floor, Bronx, New York 10474 WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano and NY State Senator José M. Serrano will honor multiple local leaders in celebration of Black History Month. This year’s honorees will include Bronx County District Attorney Robert T. Johnson; Assemblyman Carl E. Heastie; NYC Community Garden Coalition President Karen Washington; and Executive Director of The Bronx Council On The Arts Deirdre Scott. The honorees will be recognized for their special and extraordinary contributions to the Bronx. ###
02.07.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today was notified that he had received a 100% rating from the League of Conservation Voters for his 2011 voting record in the House. Serrano was one of only 24 House Members to receive a 100% score. “I am so very gratified to have a perfect score on the League of Conservation Voters 2011 scorecard—an honor that reflects my commitment to the environment and conservation,” said Serrano. “I could say that it was difficult to achieve this score, but that wouldn’t be true because to me, the right choices on the individual votes making up the scorecard were very clear.” The League of Conservation Voters 2011 scorecard can be accessed here: http://www.lcv.org/scorecard. “I also wish that I could say that I went above and beyond to gain this status with only 23 other Members, but the truth is that we have seen a rigid anti-environment attitude set in here in the House, and it is deeply troubling. For many years there were Republicans that believed in conservation and environmental protection, and we worked closely with them on those issues. You’d never know it now. In fact, it might strike some modern conservatives as shocking to realize that the EPA was set up by Richard Nixon. We must get back to the times when the two parties could work together to preserve and protect the environment. “The way I look at it, we are taking these votes to preserve the health and future prosperity and happiness of our children. They are depending on us to pass on a cleaner world than the one we inherited, and the votes this year have a direct impact on that imperative. I hope that in future years there will be more Members joining me with a 100% rating, which will signal that we are moving to defend, care for, and clean up our environment. “I commend the League of Conservation Voters for the work that they are doing to push for pro-environment public policy. I appreciate the honor of the 100% score, and look forward to receiving the same such rating in coming years." ###
02.03.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the decision of the “Susan G. Komen for the Cure” organization to reverse their funding cut off for breast cancer screening for Planned Parenthood. Serrano said he believed that Komen realized that women’s lives are at stake, and Planned Parenthood is often the only place where they are screened for breast cancer at all. “I strongly believe that Komen did the right thing in reconsidering and reversing their flawed previous decision, which would have caused fewer women to be screened for breast cancer,” said Serrano. “The bottom line for an organization like Komen, which is dedicated to preventing breast cancer deaths, is that they should focus like a laser on just that: preventing breast cancer deaths by any and all means available. “In our lives we often interact with people with whom we do not agree on controversial issues. What we do is to put those contentious issues to the side and focus on getting things done on those issues on which we can agree. I think that the partnership between Komen and Planned Parenthood should be based on that understanding; they can perhaps disagree on certain issues, but they agree to work together on breast cancer prevention. I believe Komen came to that conclusion today and did the right thing. “In my community of the Bronx, there are many women whose only interaction with a trained medical professional is when they are seeking birth control. It is vital that in those key moments of interaction, these vulnerable women are screened for all sorts of diseases and health threats. Breast cancer screening is one of those vital services. I know that lives are saved by their efforts and Komen is right to support that now and in the future.” ###
01.27.2012	The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today reminded families to ensure that they take advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit. Any family who earns $49,078 or less may be eligible for the EITC, depending on marital status and family size. “Each year up to 25% of eligible families miss out on the Earned Income Tax Credit, which is an unacceptable statistic,” said Serrano. “Working families need every helping hand in this economy, so I feel it is very important that they take advantage of a valuable tax credit like this. Last year in New York State, the average federal refund for eligible individuals and families was $2,163. That’s real money to a family trying to make ends meet. “A lot of people do not know that you can file for this credit whether or not you are a citizen—as long as you have either a Social Security number or an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number. This is an important fact that all too often gets lost—and leaves too many families thinking they do not have a chance to get this credit. “I also want to remind people that there are free, reputable services to help you prepare your taxes. You do not have to use unscrupulous tax preparers who may not have your interests as their top priority. I urge people to seek the assistance offered by Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Clinics throughout the Bronx. VITA clinics are run by non-profit organizations who can help families claim the EITC, as well as any other tax credit for which they may be eligible.” For more information about the EITC, and eligibility please consult www.irs.gov/eitc. In order to find the nearest Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Clinics location to you, visit http://www.nyc.gov/html/ofe/html/policy_and_programs/freetaxsite.shtml, or call 311 and ask about tax preparation assistance. ###
01.25.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano reacted to President Obama’s State of the Union address tonight with praise and determination to help the President carry out his plans. “Tonight President Obama laid out a clear path forward over the next year; one that will help those struggling in this economy and will build a more sustainable economic foundation for the future,” said Serrano. “He did so with plans and proposals that should attract bipartisan support, because of their moderation and pragmatism. I hope that the Republicans will focus on working towards solutions and honest negotiations. Over the past several years, Republicans have been more interested in discrediting our president than in helping our economic recovery- and millions of Americans have suffered as a result. “I applaud President Obama for his report that there are no troops left in Iraq. For many long years I asked that the troops be brought home from that needless war, and I am very pleased that President Obama fulfilled that objective. I am confident that we will leave Afghanistan soon as well, and find ourselves unencumbered by foreign wars for the first time in a decade or more. It is imperative that President Obama withdraw the troops from Afghanistan and disregard advice that seeks to draw us deeper into that unending conflict. “The President’s point that this is a ‘make or break’ moment for the middle class is well taken, but I would go a step further. This is a ‘make or break’ moment for everyone in this nation aside from the 1% that have done so well over the past three decades. People from the very bottom of the economic ladder up through the middle class have been squeezed and squeezed, and our nation is failing far too many of them. The policies of the Bush Administration accelerated that squeeze—and yet the Republicans in Congress are seeking to double down on those failed policies and strategies. “People in the Bronx are working harder than ever and getting less and less. Many are one job loss away from financial ruin, and those are the lucky ones who have jobs. Our nation’s policies must do something to fix the jobs mess and to deliver some measure of economic security to these hardworking people. President Obama has tried to work on this problem for three years but he has been stymied far too often by Republicans doing the bidding of the 1% and the wealthy corporations. “Our nation has been waiting for three years for the Republicans to work with President Obama to move the nation forward with sensible compromise solutions to difficult policy problems. I hope that despite the presidential election we see some cooperation from them this year. Working families cannot wait another year for solutions to the pressing problems that they face; problems that only reasonable government policies can help to fix. It’s time to come together and work towards a better future for all Americans.” ###
01.05.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today called for an apology from ABC for the slur about Puerto Ricans used in the program “Work It.” He also asked that offensive line be edited out of any online or future re-runs of the show. “There is no explanation for allowing an insensitive and hurtful stereotype on a national television network, and an immediate apology is needed,” said Serrano. “Puerto Ricans deserve far more respect than to be portrayed in this light in prime time. We demand an apology and that this line be edited out of any future version of this program whether online, on rerun, or on DVD. Nothing less than this is acceptable.” ###
12.16.2011	Washington, DC – Late last night, Congressman José E. Serrano and other Members of Congress reached an agreement to drop Republican language that would have cut off family travel to Cuba just days before the holiday season from a large government spending package. Serrano said the agreement showed that cooler heads had prevailed and the basic belief that the American government should not separate families had been respected. “We worked long and hard to ensure that the harmful provision was taken out of this spending bill,” said Serrano. “For days we had been arguing that ending family travel just days before Christmas and potentially stranding visitors in Cuba was too much. In the end, my colleagues agreed that we could not do such a thing, and we reached a deal to take the language out of the bill. The support of the White House and President Obama in this was invaluable. From the beginning the President maintained a firm commitment to family travel without which this deal might not have happened. “I still believe that the U.S. government should not be in the business of restricting travel to any country, no matter what the issues we have with their government. I will still work to end the embargo, and to improve relations between our two countries. After five decades of a hard-line policy, it’s clear that we need new approaches. A policy of engagement, based on increased contact between our two people—especially families—is the best way to go. “At times it is surreal to think that five decades after he took power, Fidel Castro is still a driving force in our national conversation. Arguments over our relationship with Cuba nearly caused a government shutdown here in the United States. It really is high time that we ended this hang up on Castro and Cuba policy that our nation cannot seem to move beyond. “I am gratified to my colleagues that we were able to ensure family unity for these holidays. I urge them to move toward a new understanding of what policies we will not countenance in our disputes with other governments. Chief among these should be the belief that our government and Congress do not cause families to be separated. Frankly, a policy of family separation is un-American.” ###
12.15.2011	Washington, DC – In a move that would embarrass even the Grinch, House Republicans have proposed to shut down all family travel to Cuba just days before Christmas, with an immediate shut down of all charter flights and also a severe limitation on remittances. Congressman José E. Serrano, who has been fighting against this proposal in recent weeks, said he was “shocked” and “appalled” at this heartless approach just before the holidays. “I don’t think that most people realize what the Republicans, led by a few hardliners, have included in their annual spending bill—the provision will end family travel to Cuba just days before the holidays. It will strand people already there, and it will severely limit people’s ability to send holiday gifts and money to their families,” said Serrano. “This is not only wrong, but it is just plain cruel. How can Congressional Republicans be willing to tell Doña Juana in South Florida that she cannot go on a trip she’s been planning all year; the trip to spend time with her family over Christmas? How can they say that cutting off gifts sent to family still on the island for the holidays is in the best interests of our nation? The policy is awful, but the timing is just plain heartless.” If the Republicans’ proposal goes through as part of the year-end spending package the following changes would be made: No travel to see relatives other than ‘immediate’ family; Travel limited to once every 3 years for 2 weeks; Remittances of no more than $300 per quarter. EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY. “In changing back to these rules, people who had travelled once in the past 3 years would not be permitted to go to Cuba these coming holidays—regardless of the tickets they purchased and plans they made,” Serrano added. “In making these changes effective immediately, people in Cuba visiting family would be suddenly breaking the law and their return to the States would be extremely unclear—no more charter planes could be flown there to pick up people. Remember that these rules also mean that if you went to visit a sick parent who later died, you would not be able to go to the funeral. These are deeply troubling changes that will cause an immediate mess, followed by a terrible cost in broken plans and sorrow for families. “There is very little time before this bill is voted on. People need to be aware that this will have immediate and devastating consequences. They should let their Representatives and Senators know that this inhumane treatment of families simply because governments cannot agree is unacceptable. I am certain that when people realize what has been done, they will feel deeply betrayed by these extreme efforts to hurt Cuba at the expense of Cuban families. This proposal is unconscionable at any moment but it is just plain mean-spirited in its holiday timing.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990.
12.13.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano reacted to the Senate’s failure to confirm Ambassador Mari Carmen Aponte as Ambassador to El Salvador last night, saying that it confirmed his suspicions that Senate Republicans prefer to play politics than doing the nation’s business. “Ambassador Aponte’s rejection in the Senate by a Republican filibuster marks a new low in their treatment of well-qualified nominees,” said Serrano. “Ambassador Aponte has been serving for the last year in that position with great distinction; she has support from all sides in El Salvador; and yet she has still found her nomination under attack for spurious reasons. Now her nomination has been rejected for purely political reasons. That is unfair and wrong. “In my opinion, our nation’s relationship with Latin America has been deeply damaged by the Senate Republicans’ action. The people in Latin America are seeing Republicans putting their electoral strategies ahead of a positive relationship with a region of the world with which we should be seeking closer ties. That’s a sad statement. “It is also a sad return to the days when certain Senators, through their sheer obstinacy, would dictate hard-right policies toward Latin America, despite a consensus that centrist policies were preferable. We should not impose our political views on Latin America through policies or through nominations. We must extend a neutral hand of friendship to the region. “Ambassador Aponte should rest assured that she was well-qualified and just got caught up in the inappropriate politicization of the nomination process. I extend my gratitude to her for her service and look forward to working with her in another capacity in the near future.” ###
12.09.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano introduced a bill yesterday designed to discourage retail establishments from deploying cell phone tracking systems without the knowledge or consent of shoppers. The bill, H.R. 3629, would require retail establishments that are tracking the movement of customers to post signs in prominent locations to alert customers that they are being tracked and advise them that they can prevent the tracking by turning off their cellular devices. The technology and practice was first reported in the news in recent weeks. “When I learned about the surreptitious tracking of customers by a few malls around the nation, I knew that this practice was only being carried out because customers didn’t know it was happening,” said Serrano. “I think that the easiest way to end this practice is to require tracking retailers to warn their customers and suffer the consequences of the customers’ views on it. I believe that the retailers will therefore voluntarily give up the use of this invasive practice before it catches on. “We have a right to go about our business in retail establishments without our movements being precisely tracked. This technology does not have to do with anti-theft procedures, but is rather a way for the establishment to gather data on our preferences. If retail establishments are forced to display a warning to customers, customers will vote with their feet and the technology will cease to be used. I think retailers have enough data on our habits and preferences already, without needing to resort to this level of intrusive surveillance. I look forward to working with my fellow lawmakers to get this bill passed and stop this practice before it spreads.” ###
12.01.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement in observation of World AIDS Day. “Each year, we commemorate World AIDS Day by recognizing those who have perished from the disease, by thinking of those managing it, and by rededicating ourselves to preventing its spread until a cure is found. “In the decades since the virus first struck, we have made a great deal of progress. It is a testimony to the willpower and dedication of the early activists that we now have a fairly robust system for treatment and care. The system is not perfect and there remain too many obstacles to properly caring for those afflicted with HIV, but thankfully we can say that our nation is working to support HIV-positive people. It’s a long way from where we were in the early 1980s. “We still have a great deal of work to do. We must increase our prevention efforts. I am glad to have played a role in ending the ban on the use of federal funds for syringe exchange. But that is only one piece of the puzzle. We must fund outreach and testing, counseling and education. We must also help to fund these sorts of efforts for developing nations where government support is low, and infection rates are high. “Too many of our friends and family members still contract HIV and too many still die of AIDS. On this World AIDS Day we must rededicate ourselves to the fight against this disease – and do it in memory of those who have passed on because of it. This is the best way we can honor their lives and their untimely deaths.” ###
11.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed concern over the impact of a variety of state level changes to the voter registration and voting processes. Just last week, Serrano, along with 196 Democratic Members of the House of Representatives, wrote to the chief elections officials of each state and urged them to put aside partisan considerations and to administer elections in a nonpartisan manner. “We are now one year from the 2012 elections, and I am more worried than ever that people who meet all the legal requirements for voting will be unable to do so,” said Serrano. “This wave of restrictive voting legislation threatens to disenfranchise millions of Americans, in particular minorities, the elderly, young people, and the poor. The burdens being imposed on the right to vote are unjustified and unnecessary. “We have dealt with accusations of widespread voter fraud since the Bush Administration. But the facts have never backed up these ‘theories.’ There is simply no evidence of widespread voter fraud. In fact, in 2006, when Republicans couldn’t get the answer they wanted in a report commissioned by the Election Assistance Commission, they tried to change the report rather than accept the conclusions. “Many of the restrictions recently put in place defy any logic other than a partisan agenda. For instance, there is no reason that any state should restrict early voting- a procedure that has been known to increase voter participation and decrease the cost of administering an election. There is no reason that a concealed handgun license is considered an appropriate ID, but a student identification card is not. These laws cannot be explained as anything other than an attempt to disenfranchise Americans who disagree with the political views of those who passed these bills. “If there is one thing that we should all agree on, it is that we must ensure that every eligible American is able to register, vote, and have their vote counted. Our democracy is strengthened by greater participation in the voting process. Unfortunately, these laws do just the opposite. I hope over the next year that better sense will prevail- if not in the legislature, than in the courts, where many of these laws are being challenged.” The text of the original letter, along with all the signatories, can be found here. ###
11.02.2011	Washington, DC – In response to a new report out today on families separated by deportation, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his profound disgust with a system that has left more than 5000 citizen children in foster care because their parents were deported. Serrano called the policies “un-American” and “deeply troubling.” The report, entitled Shattered Families: The Perilous Intersection of Immigration Enforcement and the Child Welfare System, was released by the Applied Research Center and found “there are at least 5,100 children currently living in foster care who are prevented from uniting with their detained or deported parents” among other findings. It can be accessed here: http://www.arc.org/shatteredfamilies. “An immigration policy that separates children from their parents is inhumane and un-American, and should not be an outcome of our immigration policy,” said Congressman Serrano. “Keeping families united is a basic human right, and a fundamental principle in our nation. I am troubled that our nation is implementing policies which could end up permanently separating families and causing children to end up in adoption proceedings. “When I introduced the Child Citizen Protection Act for the first time several years ago, I warned that a rigid deportation policy would end up separating children from their parents for no good reason. Today we have learned that that dire prediction is turning out to be true. “Today I call on DHS Secretary Napolitano to immediately halt and review any and all deportation proceedings where a child is being held by child protective services as a result of ICE actions. This indiscriminate and harmful policy outcome is wrong, and it must end immediately. A parent should never lose their child simply because of deportation proceedings.” ###
10.26.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today expressed his satisfaction at the news that the Grand Concourse in the Bronx had been designated a historic district by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. The Grand Concourse Historic District will recognize the special history of a boulevard that has the largest collection of Art Deco and Art Moderne buildings in the country. “We’ve been working for years to highlight the special historic status of the Grand Concourse, which is the symbolic heart of the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “Just last year, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Grand Concourse by passing a Congressional Resolution citing its special history and architecture. This new designation will truly preserve and protect it for generations to come. “The importance of the Grand Concourse goes beyond the buildings themselves. For decades the Grand Concourse has been the launching point for the aspirations of thousands of Bronxites, and many residents of this great boulevard have gone on to make many valuable contributions to the community, the city, and the nation. The Grand Concourse remains a thriving cultural and commercial center for the Bronx.” During House of Representatives’ debate on his Congressional Resolution recognizing the Grand Concourse last year, Congressman Serrano highlighted the history and importance of the Grand Concourse. Watch the video of his remarks here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zgns4E95rJQ Serrano has also directed millions of dollars in federal funding to streetscaping and enhancement projects along the Grand Concourse, leading to a safer, more beautiful roadway to compliment the historic architecture. “The Grand Concourse is truly a national treasure, and the new Historic District reflects that,” added Congressman Serrano. “It is the heart of a borough that has produced some of the most legendary cultural contributions in our nation’s history. People in the Bronx look to the Grand Concourse with pride and are inspired by its grandeur and its history. I am glad that we are taking further steps to preserve that for generations to come.” ###
10.25.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his ongoing concern about the high rates of asthma in Hispanic communities across the nation as a new report was released by the American Lung Association today. The report, entitled Luchando Por El Aire: The Burden of Asthma on Hispanics, presents “an overview of research into the complex biological, environmental, political and cultural factors that increase the burden of asthma on Hispanics.” Serrano’s district in the Bronx suffers from extremely high rates of asthma and presents many of the factors that the new report highlighted. “This important new report confirms many theories that we have been working on in fighting asthma in the Bronx—and helps us to continue to work on them with the assurance that we are headed in the right direction,” said Congressman Serrano. “We know that poor air quality and lack of access to health care services can cause a devastating combination to populations that are predisposed to asthma. Our efforts to clean the air, and ensure health care for all people will help to bring down the unacceptably high rates of asthma in our community.” The report found that nationwide “compared to non-Hispanic whites, Hispanics with asthma are less likely to be in the care of a regular doctor or clinic; less likely to be prescribed appropriate medicines; less likely to have access to specialized care; and more likely to end up being treated in the emergency department or hospitalized in a crisis.” It also found that “Hispanics are 165 percent more likely to live in counties with unhealthy levels of particulate matter pollution, and 51 percent more likely to live in counties with unhealthy levels of ozone compared to non-Hispanic whites.” “The findings of the report are only shocking if you have not been paying attention to the asthma crisis in our community,” added Congressman Serrano. “We know that environmental injustice exacerbates underlying health problems and so yet again we are right in our call for the burden of environmental contamination to be lifted from the Bronx. Our community has absorbed more than its fair share of the unwanted activities in our City and yet we find we continue to have to fight against new pollutant sources and to get old ones retired and remediated.” Distressingly, Luchando Por El Aire noted that Hispanics of Puerto Rican descent, the second-largest Hispanic population in the U.S., “have higher rates of the disease than any other racial or ethnic group – twice as high as non-Hispanic whites.” Puerto Ricans, it seems, “have more underlying inflammation than other Hispanics, and respond less well to quick relief medicine.” “Our path forward on this issue is clear: we must continue to attack the injustices that cause our community to suffer from this debilitating condition—from the environmental problems, to lack of health care access, to poverty and beyond,” Serrano concluded. “Parents in our community are suffering from a huge burden as they deal with the asthma of their children or their other loved ones. We must remove the factors that cause this condition and help those who have it to control their attacks. The situation is at a crisis level in the Hispanic community and in the Bronx in particular. I hope this new report serves as a wakeup call and a call to action.” ###
10.21.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his relief today at President Obama’s announcement that the final American troops will be coming home from Iraq by the end of the year. Serrano voted against the war initially, warned about the problems the U.S. would face, spoke out against various policies that furthered the war, and repeatedly called for the troops to come home. “As I think back on the Iraq War, I can only express sadness about the lives lost and the people whose lives were shattered by the choice made in 2003 by then President Bush to invade,” said Congressman Serrano. “I believe that history will show that our troops served nobly, but that our nation’s political leaders let them down. It was a war of choice based on false pretenses. It never should have happened. “Because of this conflict, we now have hundreds of thousands of new veterans. We in Congress must stand ready to support all our returning troops, especially those who came home wounded. It is the least that these heroes deserve. “Today’s announcement is the best news we’ve had about Iraq since the war began in 2003. President Obama has fulfilled his campaign promise to withdraw our troops from Iraq, and he deserves credit for his stance on this war from the beginning. I hope now he will turn his attention to withdrawing our troops from Afghanistan and ending that futile struggle as well. “As we move forward I hope that our nation will never again be drawn into an unjustified war like Iraq and will listen to skeptics of the use of force. We must never again waste our most precious asset in world affairs—our credibility as a force for democracy and self-determination. “We also cannot forget to support the Iraqi people in the years ahead. Their transition to a strong and fair democracy will continue to be challenging and we must be willing to support their efforts. After nearly nine years of occupation and conflict, we at least owe them this. I hope to read soon about Peace Corps missions to cities in Iraq, rather than the Marine Corps missions of the past years. “Our nation made a mistake in invading and occupying Iraq. We must learn from these mistakes. I have great faith in the American people and know that this will be the case. We cannot afford for it not to be.” ###
10.11.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today voiced his support for the basic economic message of the Occupy Wall Street protests, which points out that many politicians are not making decisions that improve a system that has systematically worn down working people’s economic security while simultaneously overly enriching a small segment of society. “I’ve been watching the growing attention that the Occupy Wall Street protestors are garnering and have to say that I couldn’t agree with their economic message more,” said Serrano. “For years, many of us have been talking about the squeeze on working families and the favoritism toward the rich that has infected our national policies, but these protestors have helped spread that message to new and bigger audiences. This is a very welcome development. They have hit on a simple truth—the economic policies that our nation has enacted over the past several decades have made it harder and harder for the vast majority of the population to live a decent, stable life. Working families have the right to be outraged and fed up, and I believe these protestors are channeling that justified indignation. “We just spent a very long spring and summer in Washington listening to a debate about severe cuts to government spending—spending that supports working families. Meanwhile the jobs situation was blinking red the entire time. Poll after poll showed that people across the nation cared far more about job creation than government spending, but to hear the Washington discourse it would have seemed to have been the exact opposite. Now we’ve wasted months on the outlandish debt debate and done nothing to support job creation. No wonder there is such frustration. “The protesters ask why we are focused on rebuilding roads and bridges and schools in Afghanistan and Iraq when we have out-of-work workers, crumbling bridges, roads and schools right here at home. I take it a step further and ask why we are spending money to occupy these nations and support a hugely bloated military budget. We should bring the troops home, and redirect a significant portion of the defense budget to social and infrastructure spending here in our nation. “The protestors have done our nation a great service in restarting a conversation about the skewed economic priorities of some politicians and the nation’s wealthy who they seem to represent. I am of the firm belief that we need a fundamental re-shifting of our nation’s economic policies and tax code to ensure that they help the vast majority of Americans, and not just the wealthy few. We need to invest in our future through schools and social spending. We need to favor ordinary people, not the powerful moneyed interests. I applaud what the Occupy Wall Street protesters are doing, and I add my voice to theirs as they ask Washington to focus on the real needs of working families.” ###
10.05.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today urged the inclusion of all Puerto Rican-born people in a status plebiscite, regardless of where they now reside. This plebiscite condition, known as the Serrano Amendment, has been attached to virtually every consensus status bill since the 1990s. Serrano said “excluding people who left the island for economic or social reasons in the past silences a segment of the Puerto Rican family which deserves to weigh in on a final status arrangement.” “From the time I came to Congress and began to work on the status issue, I have always said that those Puerto Ricans who are now living off the island must be included in any decision on the final permanent status,” said Serrano. “I reached out to the political leaders in Puerto Rico today to remind them that this provision has been part of every consensus bill over the past decade, and has been agreed to by all political parties. “The inclusion of all native-born Puerto Ricans is not about loading the vote for one option or another, but rather about fairness and justice. Many of us left the island not because we wanted to, but rather because our families had to make difficult economic choices. We do not now ask to be part of local political decisions, but this final status question transcends normal political questions and deserves our input as part of the Puerto Rican diaspora. “The political parties in Puerto Rico, which are so divided on so many things, have historically agreed on the Serrano Amendment. I fail to see what has changed in this current situation that prevents the Serrano Amendment from being part of the plan for the plebiscite. Some have mentioned the White House Task Force; to them I say, let Puerto Ricans choose their plan for this plebiscite and not make decisions that exclude anyone from the process. “It is long past time for the Puerto Rican people to say to the federal government with one united voice that it is time for a change. Besides the Serrano Amendment, this is something that all the parties agree on: the current situation cannot continue. Let’s begin the process of changing the status to one of respect and dignity, whatever form that may take. We must unite around the idea that our people, both on and off the island, deserve the right to determine our own future. Whatever their decision is, it deserves to be taken seriously by the federal government. Surely we all agree both on and off the island, that Puerto Rico has been in limbo too long and it’s time for a change. ###
10.03.2011	Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano today reminded Bronx residents who have developed illnesses as a result of their work at, or residence near Ground Zero in the days and weeks after 9/11 to enroll in the World Trade Center Health Program, and to determine their eligibility and apply for the newly reopened Victims Compensation Fund. Both programs are part of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, and will provide support and health monitoring to affected responders and residents through at least 2015. “We fought long and hard to pass the Zadroga Act, and to ensure that all those eligible would qualify for support and potential benefits,” said Congressman Serrano. “As the new health program gets up and running, and the VCF is reopened, it’s extremely important that those who are eligible enroll in these programs. In passing the Zadroga Act, Congress and the President were acknowledging that our nation has an ongoing responsibility to the people who helped with the 9/11 response and who got sick as a result. No one should miss out on these programs because the word didn’t get to them.” The new WTC Health Program has both a program for rescue and recovery workers and a program for people who lived or worked near Ground Zero. The Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act has also re-opened the Victim Compensation Fund (VCF), which permits people to file claims for economic losses due to physical harm or death caused by 9/11. To be eligible for the VCF, one must apply within 2 years of October 3rd 2011 (if one has already developed physical injury or illness as a result of work at the World Trade Center site), or within 2 years of when a person develops a physical injury or illness as a result of that work. For information on eligibility, to enroll, or for more information about the WTC Health Program or the Victims Compensation Fund, please visit: http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/wtc/ http://www.vcf.gov/register.html http://www.vcf.gov/faq.html “New York Members of Congress, joined by numerous first responders, and the work of countless advocates, fought successfully for the Zadroga Act. Now we are spreading the word to our communities to ensure that those brave responders and victims living in our neighborhoods find their way into these programs. They deserve nothing less than the best treatment that our nation and City can give them.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990.
09.22.2011	Washington, DC – After learning of millions of dollars languishing unused for a decade, Congressman José E. Serrano called today for the immediate identification of a suitable Bronx project and for the disbursement of the funds. The New York City Comptroller, John Liu, issued a report yesterday that detailed how the unspent $8.9 million had been directed for use on South Bronx rail improvements. “There are so many transportation needs in our community that could use $8.9 million in funding- whether that be easing truck traffic or improving rail linkages,” said Serrano. “Today, I call for the immediate identification of a suitable project in the South Bronx and for the funds to be put to use as soon as possible. These sorts of projects have so many community benefits, not least of which is clearing the air, as fewer trucks are left idling in our neighborhoods on their way to or from our markets. “I commend Comptroller Liu for identifying this unused source of funding for the South Bronx. This will help our city to better serve its citizens and ensure that funds do not go to waste. “Let me be clear, these funds must stay in the South Bronx and must be used to improve our transportation system. I can think of many worthy projects that could put these funds to productive use immediately. I look forward to collaborating with the NYCEDC to get these dollars out into the community as soon as possible.” ###
09.09.2011	Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano reacted to President Obama’s speech on jobs and the economy tonight saying “the renewed focus on jobs is long overdue.” Like much of the nation, Serrano’s district is suffering economically, and residents are in need of jobs. “We listened all year to a debate on reducing the deficit while our economy stalled in job growth,” said Congressman Serrano. “Now we have turned the focus to where it should have been in the first place: creating jobs. The deficit debate was a side-show, manufactured by Republicans eager to shrink the size of social programs they oppose. They know as well as we do that the quickest way to shrink the deficit is to revive employment. “Tonight, President Obama laid out a series of reasonable steps that will help increase employment. I hope the House Republicans will drop their ideological resistance and bring the jobs package to a quick vote. With so many Americans out of work, it is time to end the partisanship and rigid ideology. “The employment situation in this nation is at a crisis point. We must act swiftly and without the usual posturing and put Americans back to work again. President Obama did the right thing tonight by proposing solutions. I urge Republicans to get behind our President in this time of economic crisis and move our nation forward again.” ###
08.19.2011	Washington, DC – When Congressman José E. Serrano learned late yesterday of the Obama Administration’s new policy allowing some measure of discretion on deportations, he called it a “positive first step towards a humane immigration policy.” “The policy changes announced yesterday will help to ease the crushing burden of deportations on our communities,” said Serrano. “It does not signal the end of our fight to stop the mass deportations, but it is a good first step. It makes me optimistic that ICE and DHS are starting to understand that the rigidity of their enforcement is doing real and lasting harm to our nation. “All that said, while the announcement is positive, the real proof of this being a step forward will come in the implementation. If the promise of discretion leads to an end to deportations for those who have done nothing but seek a better life, then it will have been a success. If these deportations just slow or continue as they are, then this will have been false hope. We will be vigilant. “In the wake of showing some understanding of the cruel and pernicious effect of their policies, I again urge ICE and the Administration to end Secure Communities—which is the feeder program for many of the unjust and needless deportations that their new policy is aimed at. If you end the dragnet carried out by local authorities (with or without their consent), you can just focus on violent criminals. “The immigration system is irretrievably broken, and I hope yesterday’s announcement is the beginning of this Administration taking actions to fix it as we work for comprehensive immigration reform.” ###
08.10.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano wrote yesterday to the Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement to register his objections to new policy changes that have been made to the flawed Secure Communities program. The changes made the program mandatory rather than based on cooperative agreements with states and localities—meaning that ICE has effectively chosen to ignore or disregard the legitimate concerns of those communities. Serrano has called for an end to the controversial program, which co-opts local law enforcement to help increase the number of deportations. The full text of the letter Serrano sent is below: Dear Director Morton, I strongly disagree with the decision that ICE announced on August 5th to unilaterally proceed with the Secure Communities program and cancel all existing memoranda of understanding. I am concerned about why, so late in the game, “ICE has determined that an MOA is not required to activate or operate Secure Communities for any jurisdiction.” That this announcement follows the decisions of three Governors to withdraw from the program due to concerns for public safety is particularly unsettling. The fact that three states, including my home state of New York, recently withdrew from the program should have been a signal that there are grave concerns about the program from those who implement it. I am troubled that instead of responding to these legitimate concerns, you are instead choosing to bypass the states and localities altogether. Far from addressing Secure Communities’ fundamental flaws, your August 5th letters to governors have only heightened suspicion, undermined trust, and created more confusion. Indeed, there is growing concern that your announcement may invite further legal challenges. While I understand you may feel pressure to reach certain deportation goals, I urge you to reconsider recent policy choices and to think about the impact you are having on local communities. It is important that ICE recognizes the challenges our communities face and how these are complicated by the mistrust of law enforcement that ICE’s heavy-handed approach creates, particularly when local police are deemed frontline enforcers of broken immigration laws. We cannot jeopardize local law enforcement in the pursuit of ever larger numbers of deportations. While additional checks protecting witnesses and outlining prosecutorial discretion, if applied, might help provide relief in a few cases, it will not solve the problem. Trust in the police can only be restored if perceptions on the ground change considerably. To achieve this goal, you will need to invite—rather than reject— feedback from states and localities. I strongly believe that the only way to move forward is for ICE to work closely with state and local governments, and community groups to understand the impact its policies are having at the local level. Since the Office of Inspector General is currently reviewing the program and since several states have recently notified you of their intention to opt-out, now would seem a good time to stop implementation of Secure Communities and reevaluate the impact it is having. In light of the many problems plaguing Secure Communities, I would encourage you to take this opportunity to stop further implementation of Secure Communities, wait for the IG report, and then work with states and localities to refocus the program in a way that meets their needs and addresses the concerns of the IG. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
08.01.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today voted against the debt ceiling package because it cuts core government investments and does nothing to increase revenue from the wealthy. “For weeks I had hoped that the final package to increase the debt ceiling would be balanced, and would not strike at the services and investments that our nation must continue to make in order to prosper. I had hoped that the package would cause billionaires to share more of the revenue burden and would close special interest tax loopholes. But the final package did not contain either of these provisions. “I appreciate the difficult situation that President Obama and other negotiators were put in by the intransigence of the Republican Party. The other party would not accept any reasonable compromise and caused this crisis merely to satisfy their political goal of shrinking government. I am sadly disappointed that no Republicans would take responsibility for crafting a fair package and forced a ‘my way or the highway’ approach. They have done a disservice to our nation. “My constituents will not benefit in the slightest from this package—and in fact will suffer from its effects. They work hard, and pay their taxes, and should not see the social safety net that they rely on slashed solely to preserve low tax rates for billionaires. On their behalf I voted ‘no’ on this senseless package, which will do nothing to create jobs or help the economy grow. “I hope that the bipartisan committee charged with finding further deficit reductions will take into account the real human consequences of their actions—and will close special interest tax loopholes and end needlessly low tax rates for the ultra-wealthy rather than cutting further into programs that average Americans depend on. “I am very disappointed by the whole process and the legislative product that has resulted. Our nation was made great by our investments in our people and country, not by preserving wealth for the very few. We seem to have forgotten how our nation became great—through shared sacrifice.” ###
07.20.2011	Washington, DC –Congressmen José E. Serrano and Joseph Crowley responded to the lawsuit that New York Lawyers for the Public Interest filed in federal court today in order to force the New York City Department of Education to speed up its replacement of PCB-laden fixtures in schools. PCBs are a toxic chemical, and have been found to be present in both light fixtures and caulk in many of the City’s schools. Serrano and Crowley have been leaders on the issue since the first reports of PCBs in New York City schools in 2007. “The timeframe that the DOE announced for cleaning up these toxic chemicals was outrageous, and this lawsuit could force swifter action,” said Congressman Serrano. “Surely we can all agree that no student should be exposed to PCBs—known to be dangerously toxic in a variety of ways—for years to come. If ever there was a problem that we know that we should spend money on, this is it. Since the news came that there were PCBs in the schools, I have been working to help find solutions. The bill I introduced with Joe Crowley during the last Congress was a step towards addressing this at the federal level. With Republicans in charge, the outlook is bleak for a nation-wide solution. But in the meantime, states and localities should be taking aggressive action to rid schools of these horrible chemicals. Our children cannot wait for the budget outlooks to be more positive—their health is at stake.” “There is consensus that there is no room for PCBs in our children’s classrooms. However, tackling a problem of this magnitude will require city, state and federal support. That is why Congressman Serrano and I introduced legislation to provide federal funding to help local officials shoulder the burden,” said Congressman Crowley. “Rep. Serrano and I will not only continue working to secure passage of this measure, but keep up our work to ensure the City moves forward with an effective cleanup plan. At the end of the day, we are all committed to making sure our children are absorbing knowledge in the classroom, and not dangerous chemicals.” Serrano and Crowley have led efforts to help schools in New York City and throughout the country fund the cleanup of PCBs, particularly through efforts to allow school modernization and renovation funds to be used for cleaning up PCBs. In 2009, Crowley and Serrano secured language in the FY2010 Interior appropriations bill that instructed the EPA to study and issue recommendations for cleaning up PCB contamination in schools and this past August, called on the EPA for an update on these instructions to address the danger of PCBs in schools. Last year, the Members led a New York City congressional delegation letter to the EPA asking the agency to increase oversight of New York City testing and remediation of schools for PCBs. ###
07.19.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today denounced a House Republican effort to impose an economically-devastating fiscal plan on the country through their so-called “Cap, Cut and Balance” bill. Serrano called the ill-advised austerity package “a path to another recession” and the “wrong solution to our nation’s problems.” A video of Congressman Serrano speaking on the floor of the House on this bill can be seen here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iok3h51m4Ns “Our nation has run into fiscal problems for three reasons—none of which are addressed by the Republicans’ bill—they were primarily the Bush Tax Cuts, the foreign wars, and the recession,” said Congressman Serrano. “With the Republicans refusing to address the fiscally-disastrous tax cuts for the wealthy, refusing to end the costly foreign wars, and actively taking action that will make the economy weaker, we are left with few options but to denounce this backwards approach.” “When the fiscal situation of the government was better, I warned that their spending on tax cuts and foreign wars would cause fiscal problems which they would then balance on the backs of social programs. I warned that my constituents, who work hard for their families, would be the victims of the wasteful, reckless Bush fiscal policies. But when the times were good, Republicans ignored these valid concerns—saying that ‘tax cuts pay for themselves’ and famously ‘deficits don’t matter.’ They were wrong and working families are suffering. “Now we get the perverse reasoning that by cutting government jobs and spending, you will create jobs and revive the economy. This logic is so backwards as to be laughable. Good, stable government jobs and stimulus spending is precisely what the economy needs to begin to grow again. “They claim that businesses need ‘confidence’ and tax incentives to begin hiring. The truth is that businesses first must have customers in order to need new employees. Big corporations are sitting on piles of cash, and tax incentives will do little to change their lack of customers. We can create demand in the economy through stimulus spending—not through severe fiscal austerity plans. “My constituents never got the benefits of the Bush bubble. They worked the jobs that were available and paid taxes. They did their fair share. Now the jobs are evaporating, and the social safety net that they paid into during the better times is under severe threat. “I will vote against this bill on behalf of my constituents, and the people like them across the nation. I am casting a vote for fairness and economic growth. I am casting a vote against the Bush policies that the Republicans’ are seeking to extend. I am voting for a better future for our children, despite what Republicans claim about the debt. "Our nation became great by making investments in our people and infrastructure. It became great by creating a stable middle class and a robust social safety net. It became great through Americans supporting one another and paying their fair share of the taxes. Today we watch as the Republicans continue to turn their backs on that history and continue their ideological push towards a ‘me-first’ economic system. I want no part of that bleak future, nor should our nation.” ###
07.18.2011	The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that several Bronx school-based health center programs had been awarded nearly $2 million from the federal government. The grants will allow the clinics to expand and serve more children at schools in the Bronx. The funding comes as part of the Affordable Care Act health care reform initiative. The grantees are: Morris Heights Health Center -- $499,880 Bronx Community Health Network Inc. -- $500,000 Montefiore Medical Center -- $477,723 Urban Health Plan Inc. -- $489,000 According to the Department of Health and Human Services, “school-based health centers improve the overall health and wellness of all children through health screenings, health promotion and disease prevention activities and enable children with acute or chronic illnesses to attend school.” “Healthy kids can learn and grow and these grants will allow more kids in the Bronx to access needed health care services,” said Congressman Serrano. “These programs take the health care to the patients and ensure that there is no reason that an illness or a health problem goes untreated. I can’t think of a better way to improve the lives of Bronx kids than to ensure that they are healthy. And I also can’t think of a better way for our health care dollars to be spent. No one can argue that kids should miss school or suffer from illness simply because they don’t have access to health care. “I applaud the four grantees for the work that they were already doing to qualify for these grants which will allow them to expand their reach. This funding is really a recognition that they are on the right path towards delivering care to our community. I am glad to see funding flowing into our neighborhoods for this purpose and I look forward to making more of these types of grant announcements in the future as the Affordable Care Act continues to be implemented.” A full list of grantees is available at www.hhs.gov/news/press/2011pres/07/20110714grantee.html. ###
07.07.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano mourned the loss of prominent Puerto Rican scholar and cultural leader Don Ricardo Alegría, saying that the Puerto Rican community had “lost a leading cultural figure” who “brought pride and respect to our island and its people’s history.” “Puerto Rico lost a leading light with the death of Don Ricardo,” said Congressman Serrano. “He was a top notch scholar and pioneering archaeologist who brought great understanding and respect to the island, our people and our history. His legacy cannot be underestimated. “The way his studies deepened our understanding of our history alone is enough to secure his place in the universe of great Puerto Ricans. But Don Ricardo was not just interested in the deep Puerto Rican past and writing important books. “When we walk through old San Juan we see the concrete results of his work. Because of him we have a preserved and restored historical old city, worthy of its history and importance. “When we talk about our roots in the Taíno or African culture, we are directly recognizing the work he did to uncover and bring honor to these part of our heritage and culture. “When we speak about being Puerto Ricans, our understanding of what that means has been deeply and profoundly influenced by Don Ricardo’s work. We would not be who we are today without him. “Puerto Ricans everywhere today are mourning the loss of one of our most influential scholars and cultural figures of the past century. Don Ricardo will not be forgotten and his work will live on.” ###
06.27.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano called the passage of same-sex marriage equality legislation in New York State this weekend a “victory for justice of the highest order.” “When I watched the vote that the New York State Senate took to pass their same-sex marriage legalization bill late on Friday night, I was very proud of our state,” said Congressman Serrano. “We now join the ranks of states that offer full marriage rights to our LGBT brothers and sisters. This is a deeply moving moment when we have brought yet another segment of our community further towards full equality and justice. “New York State has now moved back to the forefront of the gay rights movement, which is where we are meant to be as the place where it was born decades ago. This was a tremendous victory, but we must continue to be vigilant against discrimination towards the LGBT community – especially among the young and vulnerable. “I applaud the New York State Senate and Assembly, Governor Cuomo, and all the advocates who have worked on this issue for years. We have come a long way from tolerance to acceptance to now giving full rights to our LGBT family members.” ###
06.24.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced an unprecedented new program to support the restoration of the Bronx River Watershed through a new federal multi-agency initiative. Serrano has directed more than $30 million to the Bronx River clean up over the years, and the new pilot program, as part of the Urban Waters Federal Partnership, (UWFP) will build on those successes. The new program is, in part, modeled on the programs and partnerships that Serrano helped create over the years. “I am pleased to announce that the Bronx River will be part of the new Urban Waters Federal Partnership and believe it is a testament to the work that we have done over the years, and a sign that greater successes are still to come for the Bronx River watershed,” said Serrano. “The groups that the UWFP will fund and support are the ones that have sprung up to carry out the restoration, education and community-building activities with the funding I obtained and the passion, knowledge and hard work that they supplied. “This new program is an acknowledgement of the message that we’ve all been creating through action over the years: environmental restoration restores communities and empowers people. We have found that, beyond the direct benefit of a clean and useable Bronx River, our neighborhoods have been enhanced through the renewed community activism and engagement. We know that our river has been a focal point for the renewal of the Bronx—and we are looking forward to further federal engagement. “I also believe that other communities that will be part of the UWFP—like Washington DC with the Anacostia River—will become beneficiaries of the knowledge that we have accumulated in the Bronx. I look forward to sharing the lessons of our successes with communities around the country. We know that urban renewal is possible through environmental activism and are excited to see other communities experience what we have experienced. “Our renewed Bronx River is a symbol of the renewal of our community. The UWFP is going to enhance and support all the work we have done over the years, and provide a new energy and funding for the work that is still to be done.” For more information about the UWFP please visit www.urbanwaters.gov. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He has directed more than $30 million in federal funds to the restoration of the Bronx River.
06.24.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement in response to proposed rules by the National Labor Relations Board to speed up and simplify union elections. “The proposed rules by the NLRB that would help unions to make elections faster and easier are very timely and very important,” said Serrano. “With working families and unions under attack in this country from all fronts, we must do everything we can to support them. There should be less delay and red tape for those trying to organize for better working conditions—because the longer elections take, the more time there is for anti-union forces to cause problems. I applaud the NLRB for this vital step that will help working families around the nation.” ###
06.23.2011	This Financial Services and General Government bill funds programs that touch the lives of nearly every American, as consumers, as investors, and as taxpayers. Although Chairwoman Emerson worked cooperatively with me and our staff throughout this process, the allocation our Subcommittee received is simply inadequate. It is nearly $2 billion or 9% below fiscal year 2011 and more than $700 million below the fiscal year 2008 enacted level. It fails in many instances to even fund the jobs of our federal workforce. As a result, the bill that we are considering today will force agencies to decrease performance below the minimum levels that the American public expects. I would like to take a moment now to highlight some of the most troubling reductions and what they will mean to both the agencies and to the people they serve. The Securities and Exchange Commission, which will receive $222.5 million less than the 2012 request, will be unable to carry out its new financial oversight responsibilities under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. It will also hinder their ongoing efforts to prevent financial crimes by effectively decreasing the number of agents able to pursue incoming tips. With a recommendation for the Judiciary of $529.7 million below the fiscal year 2012 request, there will be a weakening of the equitable and efficient administration of justice in the Federal courts. More than 5,000 support staff, including probation officers, will be laid off, a staffing loss equal to 25% of the workforce. Providing IRS funding at $11.5 billion for fiscal year 2012 will cause as many as 4,100 employees, mostly enforcement agents, to be furloughed. This will have a significant impact on the ability of the IRS to find tax cheats and result in an increase in the tax gap. Even more troubling is the fact that this cut to IRS funding will actually increase our deficit by about $4 billion a year beginning in 2013. Every dollar invested in enforcement resources brings in $5 in tax revenue. This is exactly the sort of short term cut that will do much greater harm than good in the long term. I am also particularly distressed that this bill once again interferes in DC’s local affairs by imposing social policy restrictions on how the District can spend its own funds. This micromanagement is not the proper role of Congress. The General Services Administration (GSA) Federal Building Fund will see a cut of more than $2.2 billion from their fiscal year 2012 request, which will result in the elimination of 16,000 private-sector construction jobs and 40,000 janitorial and maintenance jobs in existing buildings. The Election Assistance Commission will receive only $6.9 million in funding, which essentially guts the agency. They will no longer be able to help states improve their election practices and equipment to ensure fair and well-run elections in our nation. There are numerous other cuts as well that will cause an erosion of consumer protections and assistance to disadvantaged communities. At these funding levels, there will be significant harm to America’s consumers, investors, taxpayers, workers, businesses, judiciary, the security of our elections, and even our deficit, and I will be unable to vote for the bill. ###
06.23.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today sent a letter to J.J. Barea, the point guard for the World Champion Dallas Mavericks congratulating him on his role in that team’s championship victory. Like Barea, Congressman Serrano is from Mayagüez, Puerto Rico, which will be celebrating Barea tomorrow. The full text of the letter Congressman Serrano sent is below: *** Dear José Juan Barea Mora: I write to you to congratulate you on your most recent success as part of the 2011 NBA World Champion Dallas Mavericks. I am filled with pride to see a fellow Mayagüezano reach great new heights. You showed exemplary skills, hustle, and determination in your quest to become a champion. Watching you play was a true honor and privilege. Millions of fans across the world watched you become the key factor in defeating not only the Los Angeles Lakers but also the Miami Heat. There should be no doubt that your efforts were central to the Mavericks victory. Puerto Ricans across the world followed your trajectory to the finals and tuned in to see you fulfill your dreams, and you responded back by rising to the podium with a Puerto Rico flag on your shoulders. Future generations will look to you for inspiration. You have proven that persistence and hard work does pay off. You have brought great honor and pride to our hometown of Mayagüez. From now on you will be one of the greatest and most notable Mayagüezanos. Enjoy your celebration in the “La Sultana del Oeste. Once again, congratulations on your victory. You are an “Orgullo Boricua.” Sincerely, José E. SerranoMember of Congress ###
06.16.2011	This Financial Services and General Government bill funds programs that touch the lives of nearly every American, as consumers, as investors, and as taxpayers. Although Chairwoman Emerson worked cooperatively with me and our staff throughout this process, the allocation our Subcommittee received is simply inadequate. As a result, the bill that we are considering today will force agencies to decrease performance below the minimum levels that the American public expects. I would like to take a moment now to highlight some of the most troubling reductions and what they will mean to both the agencies and to the people they serve. The Securities and Exchange Commission, which will receive $222.5 million less than the 2012 request, will be unable to carry out its new financial oversight responsibilities under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. It will also hinder their ongoing efforts to prevent financial crimes by effectively decreasing the number of agents able to pursue incoming tips. With a recommendation for the Judiciary of $529.7 million below the fiscal year 2012 request, there will be a weakening of the equitable and efficient administration of justice in the Federal courts. More than 5,000 support staff, including probation officers, will be laid off , a staffing loss equal to 25% of the workforce. Providing IRS funding at $11.5 billion for fiscal year 2012 will cause as many as 4,100 employees, mostly enforcement agents, to be furloughed. This will have a significant impact on the ability of the IRS to find tax cheats and result in an increase in the tax gap. Even more troubling is the fact that this cut to IRS funding will actually increase our deficit by about $4 billion a year beginning in 2013. Every dollar invested in enforcement resources brings in $5 in tax revenue. This is exactly the sort of short term cut that will do much greater harm than good in the long term. I am also particularly distressed that this bill once again interferes in DC’s local affairs by imposing social policy restrictions on how the District can spend its own funds. This micromanagement is not the proper role of Congress. The General Services Administration (GSA) Federal Building Fund will see a cut of more than $2.2 billion from their fiscal year 2012 request, which will result in the elimination of 16,000 private-sector construction jobs and 40,000 janitorial and maintenance jobs in existing buildings. The Election Assistance Commission will receive only $6.9 million in funding, which essentially guts the agency. They will no longer be able to help states improve their election practices and equipment to ensure fair and well-run elections in our nation. There are numerous other cuts as well that will cause an erosion of consumer protections and assistance to disadvantaged communities. At these funding levels, there will be significant harm to America’s consumers, investors, taxpayers, workers, businesses, judiciary, the security of our elections, and even our deficit, and I will be unable to vote for the bill. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
06.14.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded President Barack Obama’s visit to Puerto Rico today, calling it “historic” and “very positive.” “I am pleased to see President Obama making the first visit in decades to Puerto Rico by a sitting president,” said Congressman Serrano. “I have spent a great deal of time and energy in Congress trying to ensure fair treatment and more attention for Puerto Rico from the federal government and this visit will help that cause.” “Too many Americans do not know about the nature of the relationship between Puerto Rico and the United States, and this visit will serve to better inform them about it. All in all, President Obama’s trip to the island will move the relationship between the territory and the 50 states in a positive direction. ” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the longest-serving elected official of Puerto Rican descent.
06.10.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano announced today that City Year has received a $2,921,000 AmeriCorps grant from the Corporation for National and Community Service. This grant will support City Year New York’s service programs, placing young adults to serve full time as tutors and mentors in under-resourced public schools. “The Bronx has benefitted greatly from the work of the City Year volunteers and we are thrilled that they will continue to serve in our community,” said Congressman Serrano. “As a part of the great AmeriCorps program, they are both helping our community, while learning more about the nation – and the experiences of Bronx residents. The learning flows both ways, and the experiences can be life-changing. I congratulate City Year for receiving this grant and thank all those who have answered the call to service by joining AmeriCorps.” City Year corps members focus on improving student attendance rates, behavior and course performance in math and English - which research confirms are indicators of a student’s likelihood of graduating from high school. Since 2003, City Year has placed teams of committed young adults in Bronx schools. This year, 71 City Year corps members serve full time in four elementary schools and two middle schools in Hunts Point and Mott Haven; PS 333/335, PS 48, PS 75, PS 154, MS 424, and MS 302, and partner with The Point CDC for after school time. The students City Year tutors in literacy at PS 335 have shown greater improvement in passing their ELA assessments compared to students at peer schools. “AmeriCorps funding is vital for programs like ours to be able to provide New York City schools with the support they need to ensure every student has the skills to succeed,” said Itai Dinour, Executive Director at City Year New York. “We appreciate Congressman Serrano and the rest of the New York delegation for their continued advocacy for the Corporation of National and Community Service and AmeriCorps, which enables our program to continue to have an impact.” The current year’s AmeriCorps grant cycle was highly competitive, due to the strong and growing demand by organizations seeking AmeriCorps resources. Organizations requested nearly twice the number of grant dollars and AmeriCorps positions than could be funded. In addition to these grant dollars, City Year New York will raise $6.2 million through public and private partnerships, leveraging every federal dollar they receive two to one. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. City Year is a national non-profit organization that partners with New York public schools to improve the chance that students will graduate from high school in neighborhoods where one out of every two students is at risk for dropping out. City Year teams of high school graduates, college students and college graduates commit a year of their lives to serve full-time in the public schools. City Year New York, founded in 2003, serves in 20 public schools in four targeted zones: East New York, Harlem, Long Island City, and the Bronx.
06.01.2011	(Washington, DC) –Congressman José E. Serrano applauded Governor Andrew Cuomo’s decision today to suspend New York State’s participation in the federal ‘Secure Communities’ program, which deports the undocumented immigrants in a capricious manner that is harmful to the community. Serrano wrote a letter with Representative Nydia Velázquez last month asking Governor Cuomo to consider withdrawing from the program. “Governor Cuomo has demonstrated tremendous leadership by taking the brave and necessary step of suspending New York State’s participation in the flawed ‘Secure Communities’ program, and he deserves great praise,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “He is firmly in line with our state’s pro-immigrant tradition, and on behalf of the immigrants and their friends in our community, I would like to thank him. Having New York State pull back from this aggressive program should be a wakeup call to the Department of Homeland Security. It is time to end this program and I am glad my home state will no longer take part. “The program was sold to states and localities as a voluntary one, which focused on deporting dangerous criminals, but the reality was much different. In practice, the program deports anyone and everyone. This is not in line with the original agreement and is completely out-of-step with the values and beliefs of many communities around the nation.” Under the program, ICE identifies individuals for deportation before the underlying arrest has been reviewed by the criminal justice system. Because people are placed in immigration detention directly from the criminal justice system, those inappropriately arrested have little ability to challenge their detention or deportation. “With this decision, New York State is upholding its commitment to protect the rights of all of its residents. I hope that the Obama Administration will realize that this program is an affront to our values, and begin to make swift changes. In the meantime, I expect that other states and localities around the nation will follow New York’s lead and suspend their participation in this program.” ###
05.27.2011	(Bronx, NY) – On Friday, Congressman José E. Serrano joined NYC Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe, NYC Parks Bronx Borough Commissioner Hector Aponte and Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. to kick off the summer season at the newly-restored Orchard Beach in the Bronx. “Today marks the beginning of a new era for summer leisure and recreation in the Bronx. The newly restored Orchard Beach, is back to how it was meant to be—beautiful, wide and safe,” said Congressman Serrano, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “As a result of the $7 million in federal funds that my friend Joe Crowley and I were able to obtain over the years, and our partnership with NYC Parks, and of course the Corps of Engineers’ hard work, we now are looking out at a glorious beach that Bronxites will enjoy this summer and for many more to come. This was a great partnership and a great project.” The shoreline protection project included the replacement of the sand that had been lost and also was designed to prevent future erosion. In addition, the project addressed the “drop-off zones” that represented a danger to swimmers at Orchard Beach. The project replaced more than 250,000 cubic yards of sand. The beach is now open for use by the more than one million annual patrons. ###
05.26.2011	May 26, 2011 – Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano highlighted the preliminary conclusions of a study by the Justice Department, which showed that hate crimes against Latinos have been rising over the past several years. Serrano inserted language requiring the Department of Justice to perform the study in a fiscal year 2010 appropriations bill. Serrano called the preliminary findings “deeply troubling” and “a call to action.” The study briefing and preliminary findings can be found here:http://www.nij.gov/topics/crime/hate-crime/immigrants-hispanics.htm “The Justice Department study which I asked be carried out has a very disturbing message: Latinos are increasingly under violent attack in our nation,” said Serrano. “Anecdotally, while we have known that this was going on, this study quantifies and proves that we have a big problem on our hands. We also know that a great number of these sorts of crimes go unreported, so I am sure that this report only is scratching the surface of this problem. “As members of our community have begun to live in places where traditionally we have not lived, we are encountering violence. This is unacceptable. But perhaps more unacceptable is the finding that this increasing trend is most apparent in states where Latinos already make up a large percentage of the population, like California and Texas. “Our legislatures, law enforcement agencies and Congress must step up and take clear, bold steps to put an end to this violence. There cannot be a silent acceptance of these types of hate crimes and they must be aggressively prosecuted. Latinos, like other minority groups, deserve to live free of fear and persecution in our nation. Whether they are here with or without documents, we must protect them from attacks—wherever they live. “Part of our national heritage is our tradition of welcoming the newly arrived, and ensuring that they can thrive wherever they settle in our nation. We must continue to uphold that tradition and act swiftly to stamp out violence against any one group.” The researchers performing the study recently presented preliminary findings on the first phase of the study to the National Institute of Justice. The report focused on four states: California, Texas, New Jersey, and Michigan. The researchers plan to conduct a second stage of the study, consisting of fieldwork and further surveys in four original states, and also in Arizona. ###
05.16.2011	(Washington, D.C.) – On Friday, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) wrote New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo, urging that the state withdraw from the federal ‘Secure Communities’ program. Joining a growing, statewide chorus calling for New York to exit the program, the lawmakers said ‘Secure Communities’ is needlessly harsh and does not reflect New York’s history of welcoming immigrants. Below is the full text of Serrano and Velázquez’s letter: *** May 13, 2011 Honorable Andrew CuomoGovernor of New YorkState CapitolAlbany, NY 12224 Dear Governor Cuomo: We are writing to urge you to rescind New York’s Memorandum of Agreement and withdraw from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Secure Communities program. Our concern with New York’s ongoing involvement in the Secure Communities program comes from the damage that it is causing in our city and communities. New York City and New York State have a proud history as a welcoming place for people from all over the world to live; voluntarily participating in ICE’s Secure Communities program tarnishes that heritage. Last year, New York joined Secure Communities without a thorough investigation or public review of the possible consequences for the state, including decreased public safety, increased legal and fiscal liabilities and potential violations of New Yorkers’ civil rights. Even then, groups such as the American Immigration Lawyers Association (AILA) indicated that there were questions that needed to be asked and pointed out that ICE had identified more than 111,000 criminal aliens in local custody, of whom only about 11,000 (10%) were charged withor convicted of crimes. As recent press articles in the New York Times and El Diario illustrate, evidence of the fundamental flaws of the Secure Communities program continues to mount. Illinois, which has witnessed the effects of the program first hand for almost two years, has decided to withdraw from Secure Communities. In his letter to ICE, Illinois Governor Patrick Quinn pointed to “the conflict between the stated purpose of Secure Communities and the implementation of the program.” In Illinois, less than 20% of the people ICE deported due to Secure Communities were convicted of a serious crime. The Secure Communities program was advertised as a way to remove alien violent criminals from our country; however, it has been used as a mass deportation immigration enforcement tool. There is now nationwide condemnation of Secure Communities and of ICE’s administration of the program. It has become clear that, during its rollout of the program, ICE made contradictory statements to the public and to government officials about Secure Communities and misled them about the agency’s policy on opting-out of the initiative. Representative Lofgren, joined later by Senator Menendez, has called for "thorough investigations into any misconduct, including possible violations of criminal law," relating to the agencies’ deployment of the program. We also want to bring to your attention that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) has urged President Obama to issue an immediate national moratorium on the program until a review is completed. CHC’s letter to the President, noted that “[s]ince its inception in October 2008, S-Comm [Secure Communities] has been deployed at a breathtaking pace with apparently little forethought or oversight.” As members of the CHC, we fully support these requests for a nationwide freeze. New York must withdraw from the Secure Communities program: First, ICE promotes Secure Communities as a mechanism to identify and target the most dangerous, violent individuals. However, the numbers show that the program operates as an overbroad immigration dragnet. Second, the program makes New Yorkers less safe. When immigrant communities perceive that police are running immigration checks, they are less likely to report crimes or cooperate as victims and witnesses in serious criminal investigations. Third, Secure Communities undermines the critical work New Yorkers have undertaken for so long to protect due process, end racial profiling and restore trust in the police and our criminal justice system. Under the program, ICE identifies individuals for deportation, before the underlying arrest has been reviewed by the criminal justice system. Because people are placed in immigration detention directly from the criminal justice system, victims of racial profiling or manufactured arrests have little ability to assert their civil rights. Lastly, the immigration system does not offer due process protections comparable to our criminal justice system. New York cannot participate in a program where immigrants do not have a right to counsel and where detainees are transferred to remote detention centers, severely limiting their access to family and legal counsel. By participating in such a program, New York State is undermining the work it has undertaken to protect the rights of all of its residents. As a state that upholds and protects civil, immigrant, and human rights, we expect that, with your guidance and leadership, New York will join Illinois in withdrawing from Secure Communities. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Member of Congress # # #
05.02.2011	May 2, 2011 – The Bronx, NY – This morning, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement in reaction to the news that U.S. forces had found and killed terrorist leader Osama bin Laden in Pakistan. “With the end of Osama Bin Laden, we finally have a sense of closure about the 9/11 attacks that he organized and financed almost ten years ago. Our country has healed in that time, but the news that bin Laden is gone helps us to finally move beyond that painful memory. “For too long Americans have wondered when bin Laden would be brought to justice. We believe in swift and fair justice in our nation, and to have a known mass killer living freely in another country did not sit well. Today, we know that the wait for justice is over. I especially hope that the end of bin Laden brings a sense of closure to the families who still grieve the loss of a loved one in the attacks. “Many parts of our national life were upended by the attacks of 9/11. Some have forgotten that it was an election day in New York—and the election was suspended. Bin Laden had planned to disrupt all areas of our national strength; our financial, social and political structures. But he did not count on the resiliency and resolve of the American people. “Time and again in the years since 9/11, we have shown that our nation is stronger than he thought, not just because of our military or economic might, but because of the fundamental decency and extraordinary goodness of the American people. That is our key asset and it cannot be broken, no matter what is thrown at us.” ###
04.14.2011	April 14, 2011 – Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that he would vote against the 2011 Continuing Resolution because of the deep cuts to programs that support the underserved and working families. Although President Barack Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid successfully limited the worst of the Republican proposals, the burden of the spending cuts in the legislation falls heavily on hardworking American families. “I cannot in good faith vote for a continuing resolution with cuts such as these,” said Serrano. “However, I do appreciate the efforts of President Obama and Senator Reid to stave off a government shutdown and to move the final package away from the deep and reckless cuts that the Republicans were seeking. “Unfortunately, I cannot vote for a bill that cuts WIC by $504 million, but does nothing to end wasteful military spending. “I cannot vote for a bill that cuts $600 million from Community Health Care Centers and $390 million from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, while the tax breaks for oil companies are protected. “Our communities are hurting in this continued depressed economy and I cannot support bills that increase that pain and inhibit the recovery. I realize this was the best deal that could be made, but from the point of view of my community, it’s not good enough. “In the Financial Services section of the bill, the subcommittee on which I am the senior Democrat, there were several very troubling and counterproductive decisions that both cost jobs and treat our nation’s serious infrastructure needs in a cavalier fashion. “For instance, the GSA Federal Building Fund has a significant reduction in both the Construction and the Repairs and Alterations accounts – meaning that federal building construction and repairs will grind to a halt, costing thousands of quality private sector jobs. This is a distressing way to cut spending during a shaky economic recovery. “The bill also includes a needless and disrespectful ban on DC using local funds for abortion services—a right that every other jurisdiction in the nation has. This unfair treatment of the citizens of DC should never be included in a budget compromise. I worked for years to remove this type of social policy riders, and I’m deeply troubled to see them coming back. “Perversely, by flat funding the IRS this bill is ensuring that the actual revenues of the government will go down and more tax cheats will get away with breaking the law. To me this example is the crux of the issue—the Republicans have taken on a Tea Party inspired crusade to cut spending, even when it causes further fiscal problems for the government and further job losses for the country. I cannot be a part of such a deal.” ###
04.13.2011	April 13, 2011 – Washington, DC – In the wake of the new City budget that significantly delays funding for the carefully negotiated Solid Waste Management Plan, Congressman José E. Serrano today wrote to Mayor Michael Bloomberg urging he reconsider his plans to defund this vital plan. The Bronx currently handles a disproportionate share of the City’s solid waste, all of which is trucked through the Borough, and contributes to the extremely poor air quality. The Solid Waste Management Plan would better balance the load of the City’s waste between Boroughs, which would have benefited the Bronx. The full text of letter follows. *** April 13, 2011 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor Bloomberg: It is my understanding that in your proposed budget you are backtracking from the carefully negotiated agreement reached in 2006 that provided for greater equity among the City’s boroughs in how our waste would be handled. I supported that agreement, because finally there was recognition that the Bronx would no longer be the City’s principal site for the City’s waste stream. The Solid Waste Management Plan, finalized in 2006, was an important step in recognizing the negative public health impact of placing the majority of the City’s waste transfer stations in the South Bronx and Brooklyn. The vital component of this plan was the construction of several new marine transfer facilities which would limit the impact of truck traffic in neighborhoods like those I represent in the Bronx. A five to eight year delay in the construction of many of these facilities, as your budget proposes, essentially renders this agreement worthless by putting off the goal of waste equity into an uncertain future. If a disproportionate share of waste transfer stations continue to be located in the Bronx, it means that the associated problems of pollution causing truck traffic and degraded air quality will also remain centered in the Bronx. This is not acceptable. All of the boroughs produce the trash and all should have an equal responsibility to share in the burdens of how we dispose of this trash. The Bronx cannot afford to wait any longer for the City to move forward with the promised implementation of this equitable and shared solution to New York City’s waste. I am requesting the immediate restoration of this critical funding in your budget. Our Bronx community will not accept budget shortfalls as a reason to tolerate any further delays in achieving the improvements to our environment that we deserve and were promised. I hope that your amended budget, which will be released in May, rectifies this serious problem. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
04.13.2011	April 13, 2011 – Washington, DC – In the wake of the new City budget that significantly delays funding for the carefully negotiated Solid Waste Management Plan, Congressman José E. Serrano today wrote to Mayor Michael Bloomberg urging he reconsider his plans to defund this vital plan. The Bronx currently handles a disproportionate share of the City’s solid waste, all of which is trucked through the Borough, and contributes to the extremely poor air quality. The Solid Waste Management Plan would better balance the load of the City’s waste between Boroughs, which would have benefited the Bronx. The full text of letter follows. *** April 13, 2011 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor Bloomberg: It is my understanding that in your proposed budget you are backtracking from the carefully negotiated agreement reached in 2006 that provided for greater equity among the City’s boroughs in how our waste would be handled. I supported that agreement, because finally there was recognition that the Bronx would no longer be the City’s principal site for the City’s waste stream. The Solid Waste Management Plan, finalized in 2006, was an important step in recognizing the negative public health impact of placing the majority of the City’s waste transfer stations in the South Bronx and Brooklyn. The vital component of this plan was the construction of several new marine transfer facilities which would limit the impact of truck traffic in neighborhoods like those I represent in the Bronx. A five to eight year delay in the construction of many of these facilities, as your budget proposes, essentially renders this agreement worthless by putting off the goal of waste equity into an uncertain future. If a disproportionate share of waste transfer stations continue to be located in the Bronx, it means that the associated problems of pollution causing truck traffic and degraded air quality will also remain centered in the Bronx. This is not acceptable. All of the boroughs produce the trash and all should have an equal responsibility to share in the burdens of how we dispose of this trash. The Bronx cannot afford to wait any longer for the City to move forward with the promised implementation of this equitable and shared solution to New York City’s waste. I am requesting the immediate restoration of this critical funding in your budget. Our Bronx community will not accept budget shortfalls as a reason to tolerate any further delays in achieving the improvements to our environment that we deserve and were promised. I hope that your amended budget, which will be released in May, rectifies this serious problem. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
04.13.2011	April 13, 2011 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano submitted testimony to the New York City Council at a hearing on PCB contamination in City schools. Serrano has been a leader in bringing attention to this issue and getting the EPA to work on it. He co-sponsored legislation with Rep. Crowley in the last Congress to study and fund the cleanup of these horrible contaminants which are proven to cause significant problems for children who are exposed to them. Serrano’s written testimony is copied below: *** Thank you for your kind invitation to submit testimony for today’s City Council hearing on the toxic polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) that have been found in our New York City public schools. This is an important hearing on a subject that I care deeply about and I am pleased that the Council is taking the time to explore this issue in greater depth. I regret that because of my responsibilities in Washington, I am unable to be there to address the Council in person. The problem of PCB-laden window caulking and light fixtures in our schools, and the danger that it poses to our schoolchildren, is a matter that I have been working to resolve through federal legislation and other efforts. Among other actions, I have written to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Lisa Jackson, included language in appropriations legislation pushing EPA to conduct a study on PCBs, and directly questioned the EPA Administrator during a Congressional hearing. I have consistently urged that the EPA take direct action to protect our schoolchildren from these dangerous chemicals. It is my understanding that the purpose of today’s hearing is to specifically discuss the Department of Education’s proposed plan to address PCB contaminated light ballasts through a ten year removal and replacement process. Although I am pleased that the City has finally agreed to a comprehensive removal plan, I believe that the proposed ten year timeframe is too long. Judith Enck, the EPA’s Region II Administrator, has also indicated publically that this problem must be resolved in a shorter time span. I was particularly pleased to see that so many members of this City Council signed a letter to Regional Administrator Enck expressing support for a strict two year plan to address this crisis in our City’s schools. Today, I would like to also go on record in favor of having this problem, which is having such a direct impact on our schoolchildren, completely resolved in the next two years. It is my understanding that replacing these PCB containing light ballasts with more energy efficient light ballasts will not only mean that New York City schools will be updating to a safer technology, but there will also be a corresponding savings in energy costs. We cannot waste any more time in focusing our efforts on addressing this threat to the health of our children. Parents have a right to expect that when they send their children to our schools, that they are sending them to learn in a safe environment. We must act quickly and we must act now. I stand ready to assist in efforts to not only eliminate these PCB laden light ballasts from our schools, but also all other forms of PCB contaminants from our schools - including PCB-laden caulking. I know that the City Council is aware of the fact that PCBs were frequently used in the window caulking in our schools as well and I would hope that during a future hearing we could explore this safety problem in more depth. Again, thank you for giving me this opportunity to testify on this issue of such importance to the health and safety of New York City’s schoolchildren. ###
04.05.2011	April 5, 2011 – Washington, DC – As House Republicans have made clear in recent days that restricting the District of Columbia’s ability to use local funds for abortion-related services is part of their proposal to fund the government for the rest of the fiscal year, Congressman José E. Serrano today reiterated that including such a provision was both unfair and legislatively inappropriate. “I fail to see how restricting the District from spending locally-derived revenue on abortion has anything to do with the current fight over government-wide spending levels,” said Serrano. “I believe we are seeing a return to the bad old days where, in order to look strong on a particular issue, Congress would impose a restriction on DC’s local funds, without doing anything similar for any other community in the nation. This is an unjust and inappropriate intrusion of the Congress into the local affairs of this City. “We just spent four years undoing a series of these restrictions that remained from previous Congresses. During those years we reached a fragile understanding within the House and Senate that it was not our place to micromanage DC’s affairs. With the new House Majority, however, it has been made abundantly clear that they no longer are willing to abide by that understanding. That is a sad statement and I believe it reflects poorly on the legislative and policy priorities of the new House Majority. “I hope that the Senate Democrats will not allow this, or other DC-only provisions, to become part of any agreement or future bill. DC’s local policies should be left to DC and not to the whims of a federal legislature. Our country has enough serious issues to worry about; let’s agree to leave DC alone.” ###
03.24.2011	March 24, 2011 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano reacted to the release of Census data for New York City and the Latino community nationwide today. Both showed increases and reflect healthy and growing communities. “Latinos now make up 16 percent of the nation’s population, and accounted for almost half of the growth in population in the nation,” said Congressman Serrano. “That growth came in areas all across the nation—not just in places like my district. That is positive, because it means that our needs as a community will need to be met in a variety of places, and we cannot be written off as located in just certain areas. It is important to remember, however, that Latinos are diverse culturally and yet we share common bonds. We are a proud and growing community in this nation and these Census figures reflect that fact. “Meanwhile, I am pleased to see that New York City is growing including a healthy increase in the numbers of people in the Bronx. I am certain that there was a slight undercount in the Bronx, as there are still many undocumented who are fearful of visits by government officials. I’m also concerned that other areas of our great city were undercounted in the Census, and that this will have an impact on our federal funding going forward. “That said, the increase in our Bronx community by more than 50,000 people shows that our borough is on the rise and is a desirable place to live and do business. I was particularly pleased to learn that most of this growth happened in the 16th Congressional district, which added 39,459 individuals. I look forward to continuing to see growth both in population and in the economy in the borough that I represent and call home.” The 16th Congressional District is now the 4th largest district in the state. Below are some more selected statistics on the increases in Bronx residents and the increases in residents of the 16th Congressional District. Bronx County 2010 Census Data 2000 Census Data Difference Total Population 1,385,108 1,332,650 +52,458 16th Congressional District 2010 Census Data 2000 Census Data Difference Total Population 693,819 654,360 +39,459 Population by Race White 148,562 133,649 +14,913 Black 249,278 235,419 +13,859 American Indian/Eskimo/Aleut 11,880 7,664 +4216 Asian 11,951 11,510 +441 Pacific Islander 817 810 +7 More Than One Race 43,095 42,883 +212 Some Other Race 228,236 222,425 +5811 Hispanic Origin 461,580 410,986 +50,594 ###
03.23.2011	March 23, 2011 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano celebrated the first anniversary of the passage of historic health care reform legislation by reminding constituents of the law’s many benefits that are already in place. “A year ago, we passed the most comprehensive and sweeping set of health care reforms that our nation has seen since Medicare and Medicaid,” said Congressman Serrano. “We have laid out a mechanism that will bring health insurance to almost every American in an affordable and usable manner. We moved to end the worst abuses by the health care industry on consumers who had coverage and these reforms will only grow stronger. Our kids and seniors have already received better coverage, and they are among the first wave of people seeing improvements to their care. “In short, the effects of the health reform package are numerous and positive. People around the nation should feel comfortable that their health care will improve and will not continue to shoot up in price. There have been many false facts spread about this bill, but the truth is that people are going to be better off because of it than they otherwise would have been. “Democrats will keep fighting to point out the positive effects of this historic legislation. Just like in the rollout of Medicare or even Social Security, as people begin to see the benefits, I believe they will become very attached to this law and its provisions. One thing is clear: we cannot go back to the old, broken system that existed before this reform bill.” Below are information points released by House Democrats about the provisions that have already taken effect: • If you are a young adult, you can now stay on your parents’ health plan until your 26th birthday, if you do not have coverage of your own. • If you are among 4 million eligible small businesses, you can receive tax credits if you choose to offer coverage to your employees – covering 35% of the cost of coverage. • If you are a child under age 19, you can no longer be denied coverage by an insurance company for having a “pre-existing condition.” • Your insurance company can no longer place a lifetime limit on your coverage. Such limits have caused some families to declare bankruptcy. • If you are a senior, you will now be receiving a 50% discount on brand-name drugs if you enter the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage gap – a discount that grows until the ‘donut hole’ is closed in 2020. • You can no longer be dropped from coverage by your insurance company simply because you get sick. • Your insurance company can no longer place restrictive annual limits on your coverage – with annual limits completely eliminated by 2014. • If you are in a new plan, you now have free coverage of key preventive services, such as immunizations, mammograms, and other cancer screenings. • Your insurance company must now spend at least 80 percent of premiums on covering medical services – rather than administrative expenses, CEO pay, and profits. • Your insurance company must now publish on the Internet detailed justifications for any premium increases they are seeking that are more than 10 percent. ###
03.17.2011	March 17, 2011 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano sent a letter to the Postmaster General today, warning him that plans to consolidate and close postal facilities in the Bronx was an unwise idea that unfairly impacts the Bronx community. The full text of the letter is below: *** Mr. Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General U.S. Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Postmaster General Donahoe: As you struggle to address your budget deficit through postal consolidation, I wanted to register my concern that our Bronx community is being asked to bear a disproportionate burden of your intended cost-cutting. I was disappointed to learn that once again the Postal Service has identified the Bronx, NY Processing and Distribution Center for consolidation with the Morgan Processing and Distribution Center. This is something that was successfully challenged and halted in the past, and there are still no valid reasons to close a facility of such importance to our Bronx community. This facility provides more than 100 well paid career positions for our Bronx residents. Although many of these employees would be offered positions in other more distant locations, in many cases these Bronx workers do not have access to private transportation to enable them to get to these alternative and inconvenient locations. In addition, the loss of these jobs in our community will have an impact on our Bronx businesses and restaurants. During this time of economic hardship, our community cannot absorb the loss of these well paying jobs. My Bronx community is also very concerned about the decision of the U.S. Postal Service to move forward with the closure of post offices in our Bronx communities. Our community is dependent upon the services provided in these local post offices, and these closures would have a negative impact on the ability of my constituents to conveniently access necessary services. Seniors would have to walk up to 12 blocks to get to the closest available post offices. For those on a fixed income who may not be able to afford the cost of public transit, let alone a taxi, a 12 block walk is a potential barrier to using postal services. I would appreciate your providing our office with a complete and updated listing on the status of each of the post offices in the 16th Congressional district. For the post offices that are currently targeted for closure, I would like to request information on what these closures will mean in terms of distance for my constituents to the next nearest post office and the number of jobs that will be lost as a result of the closures. In addition, I would like to understand the process and criteria used to determine which postal facilities are targeted for closure. I am concerned that our Bronx community is being unfairly impacted as the Postal Service struggles to address its budget deficit. While I understand the need to reduce costs, I will continue to oppose efforts that unjustly target our Bronx community. The Bronx has yet to see the full benefits of our economic recovery and the postal jobs and services provided by the post offices in my district that you have marked for closure would have a negative impact on our neighborhood and families. As you know, I remain committed to working with you to find ways to address your budgetary challenges. At the same time, however, I want to be sure that our Bronx community is not facing an unequal share of this burden when compared to other locations in New York and around the nation. Thank you for your kind consideration and I look forward to your reply. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
03.15.2011	March 15, 2011 – Washington, DC – Upon receiving word that the Bronx building workers had reached a new four-year contract, Congressman José E. Serrano said he was “gratified” and “heartened” by the situation’s resolution. “The Bronx building workers, and 32BJ stood up for themselves and their working conditions, and through their strong position, they have reached a fair and equitable new agreement,” said Congressman Serrano. “I commend them for their efforts and also must commend the Bronx Realty Advisory Board for their role in forging this agreement. Many working families will benefit from the modest wage increase—and will stay protected by the health care provisions. This is a fair deal for these workers and their families. “With worker’s rights under attack across the nation, it is particularly heartening to know that we can have positive outcomes for our working families. Too often we are being told that the troubled economy means that we must slash the benefits and wages of the workers, while there is simultaneously no money for the government services that they need as well. That toxic combination only serves to push families down the economic ladder. Instead, in this agreement we are seeing a commitment to workers that should be followed around the nation.” ###
02.25.2011	The Bronx, NY -- Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano today honored outstanding local leaders in their annual celebration of Black History Month. The honorees were Vanessa L. Gibson, New York State Assemblywoman for the 77th District; Leroy “Archie” Archible, Community Activist and KoreanWar Veteran; Dorothy DeSuzia, Former President and Board Member of the Concourse Village Apartments; and Demetrius McCord, Deputy Executive Director of the Bronx Community Pride Center. Each honoree received a Congressional Record Statement and a New York State Senate Proclamation. The event also featured a performance by Harlem African Burial Ground Task Force Member Christine Campbell, entitled “Tribute to Our Ancestors.” The performance honored the Harlem African Burial Ground, which residents and community leaders fear might be lost or defiled due to ongoing work expanding the Willis Avenue bridge and a plan, to begin in 2015, to entirely rebuild the bus depot at that location. “I relish the chance to recognize these fantastic Bronx leaders,” said Congressman Serrano. “As we celebrate the contributions of black Americans to our nation and culture this month, it was fitting that we pay tribute to the contributions of local leaders doing their part to uplift the community. Our small tribute to their work is a token of what our community owes them for all that they have done. Our nation was built not just by the national leaders you read about in books but also by the people who diligently built local communities and helped those in need. We have fine examples of these people here with us today.” “As we experience difficult times, both around the world and right here in our own neighborhoods, it is an honor to acknowledge these outstanding civic leaders, who inspire our communities to meet challenges head on and to thrive in the face of adversity,” said Senator Serrano. “The contributions made by Assemblywoman Gibson, Mr. Archible, Ms. DeSuzia, and Mr. McCord, should be celebrated, not just once a year, but serve as a daily example of dedication to service and to building stronger neighborhoods, and a stronger New York.” ###
02.24.2011	February 24, 2011 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano and New York State Senator José M. Serrano today applauded the Obama Administration’s decision to stop defending the federal “Defense of Marriage Act,” which bars the recognition of same-sex marriage. “President Obama and his advisors are to be commended for this brave and just decision to end their defense of the unconstitutional ‘Defense of Marriage Act’,” said Congressman Serrano. “That law, passed during the culture wars of the 1990s, does nothing to expand rights in this nation, and everything to curtail them. I firmly believe that our duty is to expand and defend the protections that the Constitution lays out and to work to end discriminatory laws and policies. “I have watched as states across the nation as well as the District of Columbia have legalized same-sex marriage and unions. I believe that is progress towards a future where sexual orientation is not grounds for different treatment by the government. The Defense of Marriage Act was not right when it passed and I’m glad that the Administration will no longer be defending it in court or other settings.” “I am extremely pleased that President Obama and the Department of Justice will no longer assert the constitutionality of the ‘Defense of Marriage Act,’” said Senator Serrano. “This decision is a monumental step in ensuring that the laws in our country are not based on divisiveness and discrimination, but on fairness and equality. "As a nation, we share a fundamental commitment to civil rights, and same-sex couples and their families should be afforded the same legal benefits granted to other married couples. I am proud that our government will no longer be defending a law that infringes upon the basic civil rights of many Americans.” ###
02.23.2011	New York City – Today, New York City Congressmen Jerrold Nadler, Joseph Crowley, and José Serrano commended the City for taking an important step in addressing PCBs in public schools in response to repeated calls from a broad coalition of elected officials, advocates, and parents, but expressed strong concern with the pace of remediation proposed in the City’s light ballast remediation plan. In recent months, the evidence of PCB contamination in the schools has been mounting rapidly. Congressman Nadler said, "I am pleased that, after many months of our calls on the City to take the PCB risk seriously, it has finally agreed to take a first real step in addressing this mounting problem. Today's announcement by the City that it is moving forward with a comprehensive plan to remediate PCB contaminated light ballasts is a critical step forward. However, the City's time frame of 10 years to replace the light ballasts is unacceptable. Continued exposure to toxic PCBs will continue to place our children, teachers and school staff at risk. We cannot ignore the urgency of this very real and growing public health problem, and the City must act quickly to remove these dangerous chemicals from our schools." “Today’s announcement by the City is a welcome step forward,” said Congressman Crowley. “Parents should never have to question if the school where their children spend their days might actually make their children sick. As we have said, a problem of this magnitude requires federal assistance, which is why we introduced legislation to help local officials shoulder the burden. However, to fully rid our schools of PCBs once and for all we must include all potential sources of contamination, including aging window caulk, and I urge the City to move forward with a truly comprehensive cleanup plan. We must do all we can to ensure our children are absorbing knowledge in the classroom, and not dangerous chemicals.” “I am pleased that the City is going to take action on the very serious threat of PCBs in our schools,” said Congressman Serrano. “For several years we have been calling for action and indeed introduced a bill to help with the cleanup costs during the last Congress. So while the progress is welcome, I am concerned that the reports of the City’s plan only includes replacing the light fixtures and not the PCB-laden caulking that has been found in many schools. It is time to quickly and completely eliminate all the forms of this horrible contaminant in schools.” EPA inspections of public schools throughout the City have turned up PCB leaks in light fixtures and toxic air levels. Most recently, in P.S. 45 in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn, the EPA found that all 19 inspected fixtures had high levels of PCBs, with some more than 10,000 times the federal threshold for removal. PCBs, polychlorinated biphenyls, are a suspected carcinogen, a known neurotoxin and a fertility toxin, making exposure for children and women of reproductive age particularly dangerous. They have been known to cause cardiovascular, endocrine, immune and cognitive disabilities. In children, this problem is more acute; with long term exposure associated with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), increased aggression and cognitive disabilities. Today, Mayor Bloomberg announced his $708 million plan affecting 772 public schools, which will include the removal and replacement of all PCB lighting ballasts throughout the entire school system. The plan is based on a ten-year implementation period that may be accelerated after a review in 2014. ###
02.17.2011	February 17, 2011 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano learned today that he had earned a 100% rating on the prestigious League of Conservation Voters environmental scorecard for his voting record last year. “My voting record on the environment is a particular point of pride for me,” said Serrano. “Besides economic and social empowerment, environmental concerns are among the top issues that I work on. Despite the Bronx being one of the most urban environments in the world, we must show the way on preserving, protecting and reclaiming our environmental surroundings. The Bronx has lost a great deal over the years, but in recent times we have made great progress on reclaiming and restoring a variety of parks, greenspaces and wildlife areas. This is a way in which we are leading the way for the rest of the nation. “The League of Conservation Voters pays close attention to the votes here in the Congress that are of greatest importance to the environment. In receiving a 100% rating, I believe I have cast votes that help preserve and protect our world for future generations. We have a responsibility to improve the world that we inherited, and I think we can safely say that we have done that in the Bronx. Through my votes, I believe we are also able to say that the Bronx has voted in favor of the environment at the national level. That’s a proud record for our community and for me personally.” More information on the League of Conservation Voters’ 2010 Scorecard can be found on their website at http://www.lcv.org/scorecard/. ###
02.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – February 12, 2011 – Congressman José E. Serrano denounced the extreme cuts to the Financial Services and General Government section of the Continuing Resolution that were released late last night for the rest of Fiscal Year 2011. By cutting the Financial Services section from $24.1 billion last year to $20.4 billion for all of FY2011, the drastic decreases will cause great damage to the agencies and departments—costing jobs and curtailing their ability to carry out their basic functions. “These Tea Party-driven cuts are beyond draconian; they are irresponsible and extreme,” said Congressman Serrano. “This is not a belt-tightening exercise, but rather an ideologically-driven attack on the core functions that American people expect their government to carry out. “How can you cut $600 million dollars from the IRS during tax season? How is it smart to shut down all construction and repairs on government buildings – laying off thousands of private sector construction workers? Why would it be a good idea to essentially take apart the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which supports growth and job creation across the nation? Or why would hobbling the SEC just after a financial crisis caused by lack of oversight be a wise plan? “These cuts show that instead of focusing on creating jobs, the Republicans have undertaken an anti-government extremist approach, which perversely will CUT jobs by the thousands. I cannot convey more strongly how ill-advised this is.” Some of the more egregious cuts are listed below. • The Department of the Treasury will take a $1.1 billion cut from FY2010, even as it works to undo the damage wrought by the financial crisis; o Within Treasury, the Internal Revenue Service will be cut by $600 million from FY2010, immediately impacting service during tax season; • The General Services Administration will see a cut of $1.7 billion from FY2010, halting all new building construction and severely limiting repairs and renovation to government buildings, with the concurrent loss of thousands of construction jobs; • The Community Development Financial Institutions Fund will go from $246 million last year to $50 million this year, ending its work to support financial institutions making investments in low-income or disadvantaged communities. • The Securities and Exchange Commission will see a $25 million drop from last year, which will prevent it from hiring the staff it needs to carry out the critical new Dodd-Frank financial oversight functions that it has been given; • The Election Assistance Commission will see its budget drop from $93 million last year to $10 million this year, effectively ending its work to help states with their election practices and equipment; • The District of Columbia will see a $79 million cut from last year, precisely as the city faces a budget crisis, and despite the fact that DC is hobbled by federal policies in generating new revenue. Further, the C.R. adds social riders, prohibiting DC from using locally-raised funds as it sees fit. “This is not a scalpel approach to budget reductions—cutting where it can be absorbed and without affecting healthy functions and jobs—it is the equivalent of taking a heavy blunt object to these agencies’ budgets,” added Serrano. “I believe that the majority, forced by their extremist Tea Party wing, have overstepped what little mandate they had from the last election. They will suffer when the American people realize the ideologically extreme and callous approach they have taken to our government and its core functions. These cuts are unacceptable, and the American people will not stand for them.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government
01.31.2011	January 31, 2011 – The Bronx, NY – Increasingly frustrated with the House Republicans’ overbearing and intrusive plans for their ‘oversight’ of the District of Columbia, DC Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member José E. Serrano told them Monday to “lay off DC.” For the past four years, Serrano chaired the Appropriations Subcommittee that freed DC of a number of social riders and restrictions. “Over the past four years we spent many long hours fighting to free DC of the harsh impositions of past Congresses, and did so with great success,” said Serrano. “From syringe exchange to medical marijuana and local power over school choice, we enabled the District and its leaders to chart their own course. My colleagues and I saw no point in imposing our views on the 500,000 citizens of DC. How could we presume to know better than them what they should use their local funds for? “In a chilling reversal, the new House Republican majority has in just a short time promised to undo most of those decisions, and worse yet, to reignite the governing attitude that places Congressional authority at odds with local decisions. They compounded this with an immediate move to strip my colleague Eleanor Holmes Norton of her right to vote on the House floor. “The Republicans’ shamelessly undemocratic moves have been couched in the false cover of ‘respect for the Constitution.’ The Constitution does indeed set out DC’s unique relationship with the federal powers that reside within its borders, but there is no proof that it envisions Congress making second class citizens of the District residents. The strict Constitutionalists on the other side of the aisle would do well to work to bring equality to DC residents rather than a separate and unfair system for people living there. “We took many bold and sometimes controversial actions during the past four years—but at each point we asked the elected leaders of the District what they would like done, and did our best to carry that out. We never imposed our wishes on the people because as we know, what is best for my Congressional District in the Bronx in local government is not always what is best for the District of Columbia. “In their ill-advised fight against health care reform, Republicans have talked non-stop about the right of citizens not to have undue impositions from the federal government. They would do well to keep faith with that belief when it comes to their treatment of the citizens of the District of Columbia. “I will fight efforts by this Republican majority to make DC residents’ local issues subject to the whims of a national legislative body which was elected to make decisions on national policy. I have high hopes that Senate Democrats will fight Republican efforts to micromanage DC, and I know that our President does not support Republican initiatives on DC. “If there is one thing that I believe we can all agree on—regardless of party—it is that each American citizen should be allowed a say in their government, both local and national, and there should be no efforts to create or perpetuate two-tiered systems of citizenship.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
01.28.2011	January 28, 2011 – Washington, DC – In recognition of Earned Income Tax Credit Awareness Day, Congressman José E. Serrano joined Ariva, a Bronx non-profit financial assistance firm, and SingleStop USA in urging qualifying low-income New York residents to claim their Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). “The EITC is a program that aims resources at families that are struggling economically and it is of great importance to working families in our community,” said Serrano. “If a family qualifies, it is highly important that they realize it, and claim their tax credit. Last year in New York, the average EITC refund was more than $2100. “Across the country, it seems that as many as 25 percent of eligible recipients each year do not take advantage of this credit. Our working families have earned the credit and deserve to get it. Along with Ariva and SingleStop, I urge people in the Bronx to claim the EITC. If you meet the income requirements, and you are legally authorized to work in the US –whether a citizen or not- then you can and should claim the credit. There are many free and reliable resources that families in the Bronx and New York City should use for help navigating the intricacy of the EITC and the tax code. “Organizations like Ariva run the incredibly important Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) clinics around the City. These clinics provide free tax preparation services for qualifying individuals, and can help you claim the EITC. They are not-for-profit, and are trustworthy. They are one of the best resources out there for working families seeking tax-filing assistance. “There are six VITA clinics in the Bronx. You can find out more information about where they are located by dialing 311. Bronx families should not miss out on this tax credit that they’ve earned—they must remember to seek reputable help in claiming it and not letting it go to waste.” Diana Breen, Deputy Director of Ariva stated, “Ariva is honored to help lower-income New Yorkers achieve economic stability through providing free tax preparation, asset building, benefits access and financial education. In 2010, Ariva served more than 7,000 tax clients – 47 percent of whom earned less than $10,000 – and returned more than $12 million in refunds to the South Bronx and other struggling neighborhoods. In 2011, with the help of Congressman Serrano, Single Stop USA and our other partners, we will expand our efforts to help low-wealth families leverage their refunds to make ends meet and build savings for a rainy day.” Single Stop USA is a partner that helps to fund Ariva’s free tax preparation services and provides additional comprehensive supports for families. According to Julie Kashen, Senior Vice President, “Working with great partners like Ariva, Single Stop connects people who are working hard and playing by the rules not only to the tax credits that can begin to change their lives, but also to a comprehensive package of supports. By helping students, families and individuals with free tax preparation, food assistance, health insurance, legal and financial guidance, Single Stop and Ariva help them climb the first rungs of the ladder to economic security.”
01.25.2011	January 25, 2011 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano tonight reacted to President Obama’s State of the Union speech, calling it a “call to action” and yet a “sobering look at our nation’s current situation.” “Tonight President Obama reminded us that our nation is in need of a coherent plan to compete in the future. We cannot make short-sighted decisions that hobble our children and grandchildren. Some believe the only way that future generations will be harmed is by government spending and debt—but these individuals ignore the fact that cutting spending that invests in our future is equally bad. The President made that second case with eloquent words and specific examples tonight. “I particularly agreed with President Obama’s call for targeted investments in education, infrastructure, and job creation. We cannot cut spending in these areas and believe that our nation will come out ahead in the long-run. People always talk about balancing the nation’s finances just like a family does. I would like to point out that most families take out loans for investments in their children’s education. Our nation needs to get away from a belief that all government spending—no matter what the purpose—is a bad thing. “I would also like to see the President and Congressional leaders come up with a realistic assessment of the current situation, and the goals and costs of the two wars we are currently fighting. In my opinion, if this were done we’d be leaving both Iraq and Afghanistan—and using that reduction in spending to cut the deficit. Our nation cannot afford to continue to fight these two wars: I want the troops home as quickly as possible. “Our nation’s economic situation is still challenging despite the recent improvements. I believe that we need to continue to focus on creating jobs by any means possible—including government stimulus. Most economists agree that drastically cutting all spending in a recession is not a good approach. I am particularly troubled that the five year freeze the President called for is composed exclusively of cuts to non-security and non-defense discretionary spending. This proposed freeze comes exclusively on the backs of domestic programs which help the middle and working classes, and do not force the military or Department of Homeland Security to make budgetary sacrifices. In my mind, given that defense spending makes up more than 50% of discretionary spending, without even including war spending, it must be part of the equation rather than off limits. People in this nation are hurting and asking them to sacrifice while bloated defense budgets are off limits is the wrong approach. “The President offered a forward-looking, smart agenda for growth and competition. I hope that the Republicans will turn away from their “just-say-no” approach to President Obama’s proposals. They must work to find common ground with us to move towards solving some of our most pressing issues. We all must rise above ideology and rhetoric. Our nation’s economy and our children’s future depends on it.” ###
01.20.2011	January 20, 2011 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano announced his committee assignments for the 112th Congress today. Serrano will continue to serve on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, which oversees all federal spending. As a senior member of the Committee, Serrano will serve on three subcommittees. He will be Ranking Member (senior Democrat) of the Financial Services Subcommittee, which he chaired for the past four years. He will also serve on the Commerce-Justice-Science Subcommittee and the Interior and Environment Subcommittee. The jurisdictions of each is listed below. “I look forward to continuing my work on the Appropriations Committee, and I am happy with my subcommittee assignments. I spent the past four years working very hard as Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee, ensuring that consumers got a fair shake, and that we brought government closer to people’s needs. I will be working to defend those accomplishments from ill-advised cuts. I have a valued partner in the new chair, Rep. Jo Ann Emerson, who was ranking member on the Subcommittee when I was Chairman. She and I have a great relationship and I believe we will continue to move this bill forward in a careful and smart way. “I am also gratified to continue on the Commerce-Justice-Science Subcommittee, and to join the Interior and Environment Subcommittee. I take great interest in the spending and agencies that they oversee and will continue to be a voice on them for those people who are traditionally forgotten by government.” Financial Services Subcommittee • Department of the Treasury o Internal Revenue Service o Community Development Financial Institutions Fund • District of Columbia • The Judiciary • Executive Office of the President o Compensation of the President o Council of Economic Advisers o Executive Residence at the White House o Federal Drug Control Programs o High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program o National Security Council o Office of Administration o Office of Management and Budget o Office of National Drug Control Policy o Office of Policy Development o Official Residence of the Vice President o Special Assistance to the President o Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board o White House Office o White House Repair and Restoration • Administrative Conference of the United States • Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation • Consumer Product Safety Commission • Election Assistance Commission • Federal Communications Commission • Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of Inspector General • Federal Election Commission • Federal Labor Relations Authority • Federal Trade Commission • General Services Administration • Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation • Merit Systems Protection Board • Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation • National Archives and Records Administration • National Credit Union Administration • National Historical Publications and Records Commission • Office of Government Ethics • Office of Personnel Management and Related Trust Funds • Office of Special Counsel • Securities and Exchange Commission • Selective Service System • Small Business Administration • United States Postal Service, Payment to the Postal Service Fund, Postal Regulatory Commission and Office of Inspector General • United States Tax Court • General Provisions, Government-wide Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee • Department of Commerce o Bureau of the Census o National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) o Minority Business Development Agency • Department of Justice o Civil Rights Division o FBI o DEA o Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms • National Aeronautics and Space Administration • National Science Foundation • Commission on Civil Rights • Equal Employment Opportunity Commission • International Trade Commission • Legal Services Corporation • Marine Mammal Commission • Office of Science and Technology Policy • Office of the United States Trade Representative • State Justice Institute Interior and Environment Subcommittee • Department of the Interior o US Fish and Wildlife o National Park Service o Minerals Management Service • Environmental Protection Agency • Advisory Council on Historic Preservation • Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (HHS) • Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board • Commission of Fine Arts • Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality • Forest Service (USDA) • Indian Health Service • Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development • John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts • National Capital Planning Commission • National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Except Institute of Museum and Library Services) • National Gallery of Art • National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (HHS, formerly EPA/Superfund) • Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation • Presidio Trust • Smithsonian Institution • United States Holocaust Memorial Museum • Eisenhower Memorial Commission • Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars ###
01.19.2011	January 19, 2011 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the passing of R. Sargent Shriver. “Sargent Shriver was the best personification of President Kennedy’s exhortation to serve our country. This extraordinary American was not only the founding director of the Peace Corps and leader of President Lyndon B. Johnson’s war on poverty, but also the United States ambassador to France and the Democratic candidate for vice president in 1972. This is not a resumé but rather the story of a life of selfless service and patriotism. “My life was most directly touched by Sargent Shriver’s efforts as director of the Office of Economic Opportunity under President Johnson. His efforts in creating Head Start, VISTA, the Community Action Program, and Legal Services for the poor helped lift many in my community in the Bronx out of poverty, and provided them with opportunities they would not have otherwise had. Many of the programs started by Sargent Shriver are today important parts of our social safety net, and continue to provide economic and social justice opportunities. “The little-known fact is that beyond the poverty alleviation, these programs created political power in minority communities. Before the Great Society programs, very few minorities were able to run for office and represent their communities at any level. With Sargent Shriver’s help, a whole host of salaried positions came into being at the community level, allowing Latinos and African-Americans in great numbers to help lead and change their communities for the first time. There are many, many, minority politicians and public servants from my generation who got their start in those organizations, and I am one of them. We owe Sargent Shriver a huge debt for his vision and implementation of the programs that enabled this empowerment of Latinos and African-Americans. “I was lucky enough to get the chance to personally express our gratitude to Sargent Shriver several years ago—and he was characteristically gracious and humble about his legacy. We lost a true patriot and public servant with his passing, and yet we are very lucky that the effects of his work live on and continue to change lives for the better in our nation. He will be missed but certainly not forgotten.” ###
01.08.2011	January 8, 2011 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the shootings of Arizona Representative Gabrielle Giffords and others: "I'm shocked and saddened to hear that my colleague Gabby Giffords was shot today in a rampage that took so many lives. My thoughts and prayers are with Congresswoman Giffords and her family in the midst of this horrible tragedy. My prayers are also with the members of her staff and constituents who were wounded, and the families of those killed in this repulsive and cowardly attack. " ###
01.07.2011	January 7, 2011 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today voted against the first step the House Republicans have taken toward repealing the historic health care reform bill that passed last year. “I did this for New York, and for our children,” said Serrano about the vote. “The Republicans are trying to take away the hard-won and much-needed reforms to our broken health care system, and I will not stand for it,” said Serrano. “They may have the numbers in the House, but the numbers and facts on the health care reform bill are not with them. The American people have been crying out for decades for real reforms to our system that would help control costs and protect them from insurers eager to profit by dropping their coverage when they need it most. The statistics for New York alone are shocking. If the Republican repeal were successful the following would come true: • 77,800 young adults would lose their insurance coverage through their parents’ health plans; • 734,000 people in New York would be at risk of losing their insurance because of pre-existing conditions; • 2.9 million seniors in New York who have Medicare coverage would be forced to pay a co-pay to receive important preventive services. “I sincerely do not believe that people want these outcomes. I will vote against any effort to repeal the historic reforms that our nation needed so badly. Today was the first of those votes, but it seems the Republicans will not allow it to be the last.” ###
01.05.2011	January 5, 2011 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated Puerto Rican second baseman Roberto Alomar on his induction into the Baseball Hall of Fame today. “To many, being a 12-time All-Star, a 10-time Gold Glove recipient and a four-time Silver Slugger and batting over .300 nine times would represent a great career, but for Roberto Alomar, these were just milestones along his route to the Hall of Fame. His career had all the hallmarks of a hall-of-famer, and today that was made official. I am very happy for him, and congratulate him on this historic moment. “Roberto is part of a Puerto Rican baseball dynasty that deserves recognition too. His father and brother, Sandy Alomar and Sandy Alomar Jr. had distinguished careers in Major League Baseball. They must realize that their guidance and support helped guide Roberto to his great career and that they too deserve recognition as he is inducted into baseball’s most elite and hallowed club. “I am sure that the feeling of winning the World Series twice was quite indescribable for Roberto, but the thrill of being inducted into the Hall of Fame must be just as sweet. It is a fitting end to a great career. Along with the rest of the baseball world and millions of Puerto Ricans on the island and in the 50 states, I applaud Roberto Alomar today. I look forward to seeing his plaque placed among the other baseball legends.” ###
01.05.2011	January 5, 2011 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced his strong disapproval of the decision by House Republicans to take away the territorial and D.C. delegates’ right to vote on the House floor. Along with the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico, delegates from D.C., Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands will not be allowed to vote in the Committee of the Whole, a right the Democrats gave them four years ago. “This is a shameful step backwards that House Republicans took today, and it is a slap in the face of the millions of citizens and people living under the U.S. flag in these territories. They have had the ability to have their voices heard in the U.S. House of Representatives for only four short years, and there is no excuse for taking that right away from these duly elected leaders. “I have spent much of my career here in Washington seeking equality for those living in the territories. Had my parents not left Puerto Rico, I would certainly have been in the situation that these people find themselves in through no choice or fault of their own. I have worked to give them dignity and a say in matters that affect them. House Republicans have taken away civil liberties through their decision and I find it outrageous. “On behalf of the millions living under the American flag in D.C. and the territories, I call on Speaker Boehner and the House Republicans to reconsider this terrible decision and restore their voice in the House of Representatives.” ###
12.23.2010	December 23, 2010 –Washington, DC – Over the past year, Congressman José E. Serrano and his New York colleagues fought back against efforts to exclude undocumented rescue and clean-up workers from coverage by the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010. And in the final bill, which passed both chambers yesterday, the undocumented 9/11 heroes are given coverage. “Despite constant efforts to exclude the undocumented from start to finish, the Zadroga Act will not force out those who lacked papers, but felt patriotic enough to go help down at Ground Zero. No one asked them their citizenship status when they went to help our nation and no one will ask them now as we help them with the ailments. This is not a giveaway, but a repayment. “I wish to thank Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer for their work to ensure the passage of this bill without excluding undocumented workers. They were steadfast and it made all the difference. “When I first brought this issue up to Reps. Maloney and Nadler, they pledged to work with me and Rep. Velazquez to fight any efforts to discriminate against the undocumented. They were true to their word and the 9/11 cleanup heroes—both citizen and non-citizen—will benefit from their hard work. I salute them for their efforts. ” ###
12.22.2010	December 22, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010 today as it passed the House of Representatives and the Senate earlier in the day. “Today we have righted a wrong done to the rescue workers and many others who served our nation in looking for survivors and cleaning up the aftermath of 9/11/01. It has taken far too long, and far too many of these heroes have fallen in the meantime. But today we took the necessary step of helping them to deal with the health problems that their service caused them. “As always, I applaud the service of these brave individuals and feel that our nation cannot do enough to thank them. We also must thank their activist leaders who made sure that this bill passed. Without their tireless advocacy we would have never overcome the senseless opposition to this bill. “I hope that with the funding this bill provides we can avert more unnecessary loss of life in connection with that horrible day nine years ago. We have lost too many already.” ###
12.08.2010	December 8, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of the DREAM Act today as it passed the House of Representatives by a margin of 216-198. Congressman Serrano floor speech in favor of the bill can be viewed here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4rVokpi7DXM “By passing the DREAM Act today, we fulfilled a promise to youth who were brought to America as children and who have grown up as Americans. On behalf of our nation, we are saying: we recognize that you are members of the American family and we want you to be citizens. “Our immigration system is clearly broken and I wish that we were passing a comprehensive immigration bill that fully addressed the needs of the large number of undocumented immigrants in our country and set a reasonable, achievable immigration policy for the future. We cannot continue to ignore this issue. “However, time has run out on such a bill in this Congress and the DREAM Act is the least we can for this small portion of the population that so deserves a chance at citizenship. They have grown up here and it is past time that we recognized that they merit an opportunity to become American citizens. Many of these people have already gone to school here and should be allowed to continue their studies and become full members of the society in which they’ve grown up. “Even for the people this bill affects it does not automatically make them citizens, rather the bill requires that they serve in the military or spend two years going to college. “As a nation of immigrants, it will be a shame if we cannot even agree that these people deserve a chance to become citizens of what is for many the only country they have known. For that reason I urge the Senate to take up and pass this bill, and I look forward to continuing to work for a comprehensive reassessment of our failed immigration policy.” ###
12.01.2010	December 1, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today issued the following statement in commemoration of World AIDS Day. “Today we spend time remembering those that have succumbed to AIDS and vow to redouble our efforts to fight against new infections and to find a cure. Over time, we have made much progress towards understanding and controlling it this terrible disease, but we lost many good people along the way. In their memory we continue to fight to end this epidemic. “Over the past several years, I have had the distinct honor of fighting a successful battle to ensure funding for syringe exchange programs. We started with the District of Columbia—where a city wracked by an AIDS epidemic had been prevented from using its own funds to support syringe exchange. We changed that shameful policy and then began the battle to allow federal funding for syringe exchange programs across the nation. The federal government had been prevented since the 1990s from spending money on syringe exchange. We won the battle to free up that funding last year, and federal support is starting to flow. These two struggles—which I was proud to lead—have led to reductions in HIV infection rates. As we await a cure from scientists, these sorts of actions are among the best tools we have to battle HIV/AIDS. “Another battle that we fight on an ongoing basis is to reduce the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS. There are many people in New York who are living with a positive diagnosis, and it is our job to ensure that their lives are as normal as possible. We know that no one would choose¬ to become infected, and therefore we cannot judge people for their infection. We must support and help them as they battle to treat this disease. “There is much more work to be done to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic both here and abroad, but with simple, effective steps, we can reduce its impact and ensure that we do not needlessly lose more people while we wait for the cure. Every life is precious and we have lost too many already.”
11.19.2010	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; leaders of and attendees of the 13th Annual National Leadership Summit of the Dominican American National Roundtable & The National Dominican American Council. WHEN: Saturday, November 20th, 12 p.m. WHERE: U.S. Capitol Visitors Center WHAT: Congressman Serrano will welcome leaders and attendees of the 13th Annual National Leadership Summit of the Dominican American National Roundtable & the National Dominican American Council tomorrow. With a large Dominican population, New York benefits from the leadership and strength of this community, and like other New York leaders, Serrano works to ensure that their needs are being met. Serrano’s welcoming remarks will focus on how the Dominican community can engage with Washington. ###
10.29.2010	(Bronx, NY) – On Friday, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-The Bronx) and Joseph Crowley (D-Queens, The Bronx) joined NYC Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe and Army Corps of Engineers NY District Commander Colonel John R. Boulé in breaking ground on a large restoration project at Orchard Beach in the Bronx. The $13 million project, which was jointly funded by $7 million in federal money obtained by Serrano and Crowley and $6 million from NYC Parks, will focus on the restoration of beach sand and anti-erosion infrastructure. The project will be carried out over the coming months by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. “The people of the Bronx will soon have a restored, functional and expansive Orchard Beach, as it was envisioned by its creators decades ago, when it was called the Riviera of the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “With the funds that my friend Joe Crowley and I were able to secure over the years, our partnership with NYC Parks, and the Corps of Engineers hard work, we can now be sure that Orchard Beach will be restored to its former glory. The Bronx has always been underserved when it comes to recreation opportunities, but we are turning that around one project at a time. I look forward to using the new, refurbished Orchard Beach in coming summers alongside other Bronxites. ” “Today marks an exciting first step to expand and replenish Orchard Beach’s shores – opening access to this popular beach and preserving it for generations to come,” said Rep. Crowley. “After years of severe erosion, Orchard Beach is in dire need of restoration to transform it back to the treasure it once was. That is why my good friend José Serrano and I made securing funds for this project a priority. Together, with NYC Parks and the Corps of Engineers, we will ensure Bronx residents have a beautiful beach right in their backyard that can be enjoyed for years to come.” “Parks is pleased to partner with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to replenish sand and restore the shoreline at Orchard Beach, known as the 'Riviera of the Bronx,'" said Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe. "This WPA-era, man-made beach was last nourished with sand in 1964. Over time, the beach has lost sand naturally due to tides, winds, waves and storms. We are grateful to the U.S. Army Corps, Congressman José E. Serrano and Congressman Crowley for their support. We applaud their commitment to join us in preserving and protecting Orchard Beach, and helping ensure that this treasured gem can continue to be enjoyed by future generations of New Yorkers.” “This project represents an outstanding investment of public dollars to provide the great people of the Bronx with a first-class recreational beach in these tough economic times,” said New York District Commander Col. John R. Boulé. “We're excited to be partnering with the New York City Department of Parks & Recreation to restore Orchard Beach.” The shoreline protection project will result in the replacement of the sand that has been lost over time and also help to prevent future erosion. In addition, the project will address the “drop-off zones” that represent a real danger to swimmers at Orchard Beach. The project is scheduled to replace more than 250,000 cubic yards of new sand and be completed before next summer in time for use by the more than one million annual patrons. # # #
10.26.2010	October 26, 2010 –Washington, DC – In the wake of news that the New York City Department of Education is being forced by the federal government to classify the race of students without the benefit of the “some other race” category, Congressman José E. Serrano strongly urged Education Secretary Arne Duncan to halt this effort until the categories can be fixed. In a news report, Secretary Duncan said the categories were tied to the U.S. Census, but this is a misunderstanding of the Census Bureau’s policy. “I worked for many years to ensure that the Census provides a variety of racial and ethnic options including those that the NYC Department of Education is being forced to leave out today,” said Serrano. “I feel very strongly that our official statistics on race and ethnicity, whether they are collected by the Census or the U.S. Department of Education, must fairly represent the multiracial society that we live in. Using the existing census categories for questions on race and Hispanic origin will give us a better and more accurate understanding of who we are as a nation. “It is also important to note that in addition to providing a ‘some other race’ category on the race question, the Census Bureau also specifically asks about the Hispanic Origin of individuals. By seemingly removing both options from the NYC Department of Education, the U.S. Department of Education is creating a situation where Hispanics will almost certainly be undercounted. It is unclear why the U.S. Department of Education would attempt to classify the race of school children across America in a way that is unlawful for the Census Bureau. “If there is unwillingness on the part of the U.S. Department of Education to reconsider this flawed policy, I will be happy to offer language to their annual appropriations that will require them to do so. We have reached a consensus with the Census Bureau on inclusion of the “some other race” category and I do not take the idea of schools being forced to do the opposite lightly.” ###
10.15.2010	October 15, 2010 –Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Bronx is slated to receive two transportation-related federal grants totaling more than $11.5 million. The larger of the two, a $10 million transit grant, will fund the reconstruction of the Fordham transit plaza, while the smaller, $1.5 million grant will fund the creation of a vision plan for the Sheridan Expressway and Hunts Point area. Serrano was involved in obtaining these grants from the beginning and wrote letters in support of the applications. “These two grants are fulfilling deep transportation and planning needs in our community,” said Serrano. “The Fordham transit plaza is one of the key transportation hubs in the Bronx and one of the busiest in the city. With rail, buses, and subways coming together, it serves a huge number of residents daily. Reconstruction will facilitate their use of this key hub in our community. “Meanwhile, the creation of a vision plan that addresses the current and future needs of our community in the Hunts Point area and the Sheridan Expressway is of vital importance. We are eager to remake this area into a livable, walkable and green section of our community, and this is the first step towards achieving that goal. I am encouraged that this grant specifically states that this ‘City-led, multi-agency, holistic planning process will be designed to respond to the needs and goals of the business and residential communities in the area.’ This is precisely the process that all planning in our borough must undergo as we work to right the development and planning wrongs of many decades.” ###
10.14.2010	October 14, 2010 – Washington, DC – Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Joe Barton (R-TX) announced the details of a friendly wager over the upcoming playoff series between their two local baseball clubs- the New York Yankees and the Texas Rangers. As the Members of Congress who represent Yankee Stadium and Rangers Ballpark, respectively, and as passionate fans of their hometown teams, the Congressmen agreed to a battle for bragging rights. If the Rangers win, Serrano will give Barton a gift basket of gourmet deli specialties from Mike’s Deli on Arthur Avenue in the Bronx. Arthur Avenue is known as the last authentic Little Italy in New York City. If the Yankees win, Barton will provide Serrano with a BBQ brisket from Arlington, Texas’ famous Spring Creek Barbeque. The meal will be topped off with some of their wonderful sauce made from a secret recipe. “Unfortunately for my colleague Joe Barton, history is against him,” said Serrano. “The Yankees have played the Rangers in the playoffs three times- in 1996, 1998, and 1999. Each year, those series ended the same way- with a Yankees victory that propelled them to the World Series title. Although many of the players in 2010 may be new, the result will remain identical: a Yankees triumph over the Rangers. I look forward to celebrating with some Texas barbeque.” “The Texas Rangers of the frontier have a long and storied history of dispensing common sense justice – now our baseball team will follow the lead of their namesake and dispense justice to the Yankees on the baseball diamond,” said Barton. “My compliments go to Mr. Serrano for the Yankees’ past victories but I remind him that legacies don’t win baseball games and the Rangers are rewriting history this year. The only thing that will make the taste of this victory sweeter is some deli specialties from the famous Arthur Avenue." ###
10.01.2010	October 1, 2010 –Washington, DC – Following recent events in Ecuador, Congressman José E. Serrano urged a return to rule of law and respect for democracy. “The shocking events in Ecuador over the past 24 hours have no place in a democratic society,” said Serrano. “Latin America has seen too many of these situations over the years, and we must be vigilant that popularly-elected leaders are not challenged by armed elements of society. There is but one legitimate way to challenge politicians in a democracy and that is through the ballot box. Disaffected segments of society must not resort to violence and lawlessness.” “President Correa has our support as a legitimate head of state. As Secretary of State Clinton made clear, attempts at a coup d’etat will not be tolerated. I applaud the actions of those who worked to restore civilian authority and to end violent lawlessness.” ###
09.29.2010	September 29, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano voted with the majority of the House today to pass H.R. 847 – the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. The following is a video of Congressman Serrano speaking during the debate: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E3wmVjK4dmo Serrano released the following statement after passage of the bill: “I am so pleased that we have finally moved to take care of the heroes that helped with the cleanup after 9/11 as they continue to suffer from their patriotic service to our City and nation,” said Serrano. “It has been a long fight, but we have proven that despite the challenges thrown up by opponents of this bill, the majority of the House still believe that we must ensure that those who helped our nation in the aftermath of 9/11 are fairly treated. “We did not ask all these brave, patriotic people to work in these dangers; they volunteered in many cases. In fact, the government told them it was safe to breathe the air and dust around Ground Zero. This turned out to be untrue, and as a result now these people are suffering complex illnesses that very few doctors and hospitals understand. Only certain specialized care facilities can manage their health problems—and only federal funding can ensure that they get that care. “This bipartisan vote on this bipartisan bill helps to restore that sense of unity that we all felt after 9/11. We are taking a huge step today towards finally solving the lingering problems that 9/11 caused our nation. Our friends and neighbors who perished on 9/11 would not have wanted those who survived and helped to be treated in any other way.” ###
09.15.2010	September 15, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano’s bill to allow Members of Congress to preside over citizenship ceremonies passed the House today by voice vote. “I am so pleased that my bill has passed the House and look forward to it being passed in the Senate and signed into law,” said Serrano. “It simply allows Members of Congress to administer the citizenship oath to new citizens—instead of only federal judges and administration officials as is currently allowed under law. “The day when immigrants are given the oath of citizenship is a very important day because it represents the culmination of a long process and the fulfillment for many of a long-held dream. Members of Congress want to be able to fully share in this celebration of citizenship. “They are wonderful celebrations and important to the community, many Members already participate in these occasions and now they can participate by administering the oath. As a nation of immigrants, it is fitting that we welcome the newest citizens to our nation with celebration and ceremony. “The bill had wide bipartisan support and we ensured that concerns about keeping this separate from politics were addressed. We made changes to prevent Members from choosing the timing of the event and to keep them from participating during the 90 days prior to an election. “I thank my colleagues for seeing fit to pass this bill and look forward to being able to administer the oath of citizenship to new citizens in the near future.” ###
09.13.2010	September 13, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the death of Pastors for Peace founder Reverend Lucius Walker last week. “The Reverend Lucius Walker was an inspirational activist and a good friend. He fought for just and humane treatment of Latin America through a direct action-based activism that took courage and dedication. Those of us working to change unjust policies toward Latin America found his caravans for peace and solidarity to be both inspirational and helpful. They showed what truly compassionate foreign relations should be about: people helping their brothers and sisters in other lands without regard to the false political divisions that separate them. “Reverend Walker’s most visible action over the years were his annual caravans to deliver humanitarian supplies to Cuba. I am, and remain, a supporter of these missions, as I believe they show Cuban and Americans that another way of relating to one another is not only possible, but desirable. This is people-to-people diplomacy of the best kind. We must thank Rev. Walker for conceiving and carrying out so many of these caravans despite the roadblocks—physical and legal—that were put in the way. “We will miss Rev. Walker and his deeply-held belief about changing the way the U.S. relates to Latin America. Luckily, he left behind many people who are willing and able to continue his work. In honor of his memory we will continue to fight for just and compassionate policies toward Latin America.” ###
09.10.2010	September 10, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement upon learning of the death of Puerto Rican patriot Juan Mari Brás today. “Juan Mari Brás was a great leader and a patriot who always put Puerto Rico first. He devoted his whole life to the independence cause out of his love for Puerto Rico. All Puerto Ricans can look to his life and his accomplishments as a model for positive political action on behalf of the Puerto Rican people. “From his days in Mayagüez through his time at the University of Puerto Rico and beyond, the cause of Puerto Rican independence was the cause of Juan Mari Brás’ life. One of my first memories of him was his 1973 speech to the United Nations where he demanded the decolonization of Puerto Rico. What a bold and inspiring speech that was. “In the years that followed he took many other audacious positions that brought attention and awareness to the Puerto Rican status issue. He was the first to ask for, and receive, ‘Puerto Rican citizenship,’ showing that the status issue is an issue of identity rather than just an abstract political concept. “Beyond all his activism, Juan Mari Brás was a gentle and kind person. He was always willing to talk to me about all the issues of the day. His insights and perspectives were always useful. His dedication to the dignity and pride of the people of Puerto Rico has been an inspiration to me in my career. I can say without reserve that Puerto Rico has lost a true patriot today and he will be missed.” ###
08.12.2010	August 12, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the New York City Department of Corrections for deciding against building a new jail in the Bronx and deciding to move the “prison barge” from Hunts Point to Rikers Island. “For years our community has been fighting against the plan to put a new prison in the Bronx, and we now have won that battle,” said Serrano. “I know I speak for the community when I say that we feel deeply gratified at this decision, and we especially can appreciate the added bonus of the ‘prison barge’ being moved over to Rikers Island. For many years, our neighborhood has borne more than our fair share of these facilities. This decision marks a milestone in our community’s struggle to change that pattern. “During the fight against the proposed new jail, we had two key points. First, we have many ideas for that parcel of land that would provide greater benefits to the community—all of them more beneficial than a new prison. This space is in the Food Market, so it should be used for economically productive activities. Failing that, we are always seeking to reclaim green space for the community. “The second key point was that building a new jail is a step backwards symbolically for the neighborhood. We believe that the City should be able to think of things to build in the Bronx besides a jail. We are proud people who work hard and try to get ahead in life. We are not a community defined by negativity, but rather one that is defined by our belief that our future is bright. “Not building a new jail and moving the ‘prison barge’ will free up space for many new and productive activities or simply to create much-needed green space. Our community is going to be a better place for not having these facilities. We applaud our City for doing the right thing and not continuing the old ways of doing business—where all the objectionable facilities go in the Bronx.” ###
07.29.2010	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, delivered the following statement at the Subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year 2011 bill today: I am pleased to present the Chairman’s mark for the Subcommittee’s consideration. This Financial Services and General Government bill funds programs that touch the lives of nearly every American, as consumers, as investors, and as taxpayers. We fund the agencies that ensure that Americans can go about their daily lives with the peace of mind and confidence that the products they use are safe and their investments are sound. This is a key government function that Americans expect. In addition to funding critical parts of the Executive branch, we fund the entire Judicial branch of government. This bill was developed in a cooperative manner with our Ranking Member, Jo Ann Emerson. I want to thank her for the work that she has put into this bill. We also had helpful input from our Subcommittee Members. It is with a sense of sadness that I acknowledge the fact that this will be our last Subcommittee markup with Chairman Obey. Chairman Obey has been a tireless advocate for so many of the issues that we care deeply about and I want to take this moment to thank him for his service to this Committee and to the Congress. I want to wish him the very best on behalf of all of us as he pursues his new path of service. I would also like to take a moment to mention that this will also be our last Subcommittee markup with Congressman Kirk. He has served on this Subcommittee with passion and commitment and I want to thank him and wish him well. Putting together this bill has not been an easy task. Our allocation was barely one percent above fiscal year 2010 and three percent below the President’s request. We had to work with the agencies to accomplish priorities while avoiding reductions in staff and services. Our friends across the aisle may propose even lower numbers, but they simply cannot go much lower without forcing agencies to decrease performance below the minimum levels that the American public has a right to expect. I would like to briefly highlight the five important themes that were addressed throughout this bill. The first of these is strengthening the regulatory agencies designed to protect consumers and investors. The Consumer Product Safety Commission, which plays an important role in our product safety decisions, will receive funding of $7 million above the fiscal year 2010 level. Among other things, the agency will double its presence at our nation’s ports where most dangerous products enter our nation’s markets. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission, which protects consumers from deceptive practices, will receive $27 million more than in fiscal year 2010. Both consumer protection-oriented agencies will improve their websites and telephone services for all consumers, including Spanish speaking consumers. The bill also recognizes that the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has imposed new responsibilities on the Securities and Exchange Commission to regulate derivatives, credit rating agencies, hedge funds, and investment advisers. We boost SEC funding by $205 million, the full extent authorized by the new Reform Act. A second major theme of the bill is to make sure capital and other assistance gets to small businesses and low-income communities – not just to large businesses and the wealthy. Funding increases are directed to the two key agencies which play important roles in this area. The Small Business Administration receives $225 million more than fiscal year 2010. The bill also fully funds two new initiatives at the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund with $50 million for the Bank on USA Initiative and $25 million for the Healthy Food Financing Initiative. Our third priority is supporting equitable and efficient administration of justice in the Federal courts. The Judiciary initially came in with a request for a large increase over this year, more than the entire increase in our allocation for fiscal year 2011. We worked closely with the Judiciary to pare down that request while maintaining current services and avoiding reductions in force. The fourth theme is to provide for fair and effective collection of taxes. The bill provides funding for the President’s request for the IRS initiative to curb offshore tax avoidance. We need to close the $300 billion gap between taxes owed and taxes paid. Many experts believe that offshore tax shelters account for a large share of that huge tax gap that honest taxpayers must fill. We also help our taxpayers meet their responsibilities by including resources for the IRS to provide assistance in person and on the IRS website. In addition, the bill goes beyond the President's request for shorter wait times for assistance over the phone and for special programs that assist elderly and low income taxpayers. Our final priority is to meet our obligations to the District of Columbia by including payments to address high priority needs. The bill provides $759 million in Federal funds to the District, most of which goes to the DC courts and related probation and defender services. The bill maintains support for education in the District, including a new $10 million investment in the Community College of the District of Columbia. The bill also includes $5 million to help the District combat an HIV/AIDS epidemic unparalleled in the United States. Last year was the first year in many years that this bill did not interfere in local affairs by imposing social policy restrictions on how the District could spend its own funds. This bill not only repeats that for a second year, but it also adds a new dimension. We allow the District, effective with the next fiscal year (FY2012), to implement its budget for the use of locally collected funds immediately, rather than waiting six months or more for Congressional approval. This finally puts the District in the same position as the 50 States when it comes to the use of their own local funds. Beyond these five priority areas, our bill touches the lives of Americans in other ways as well. For example, we again assist America’s farmers by including language clarifying the requirement for payment of “cash in advance” for agricultural goods sold to Cuba. We also provide increased funding for Drug-Free Communities coalitions, who work to reduce problems of youth drug abuse in their neighborhoods and communities. So let me end by saying that I believe this is a good bill that merits your support. It directs funding to improve the services that our government agencies provide to our constituents as they purchase products, start small businesses, invest their savings, and pay taxes. It addresses the needs of our courts and our nation’s capital city. We have done a lot with limited funding and we can all be proud of this bill’s support for key government functions that directly benefit our constituents. ###
07.29.2010	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, delivered the following statement at the Subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year 2011 bill today: I am pleased to present the Chairman’s mark for the Subcommittee’s consideration. This Financial Services and General Government bill funds programs that touch the lives of nearly every American, as consumers, as investors, and as taxpayers. We fund the agencies that ensure that Americans can go about their daily lives with the peace of mind and confidence that the products they use are safe and their investments are sound. This is a key government function that Americans expect. In addition to funding critical parts of the Executive branch, we fund the entire Judicial branch of government. This bill was developed in a cooperative manner with our Ranking Member, Jo Ann Emerson. I want to thank her for the work that she has put into this bill. We also had helpful input from our Subcommittee Members. It is with a sense of sadness that I acknowledge the fact that this will be our last Subcommittee markup with Chairman Obey. Chairman Obey has been a tireless advocate for so many of the issues that we care deeply about and I want to take this moment to thank him for his service to this Committee and to the Congress. I want to wish him the very best on behalf of all of us as he pursues his new path of service. I would also like to take a moment to mention that this will also be our last Subcommittee markup with Congressman Kirk. He has served on this Subcommittee with passion and commitment and I want to thank him and wish him well. Putting together this bill has not been an easy task. Our allocation was barely one percent above fiscal year 2010 and three percent below the President’s request. We had to work with the agencies to accomplish priorities while avoiding reductions in staff and services. Our friends across the aisle may propose even lower numbers, but they simply cannot go much lower without forcing agencies to decrease performance below the minimum levels that the American public has a right to expect. I would like to briefly highlight the five important themes that were addressed throughout this bill. The first of these is strengthening the regulatory agencies designed to protect consumers and investors. The Consumer Product Safety Commission, which plays an important role in our product safety decisions, will receive funding of $7 million above the fiscal year 2010 level. Among other things, the agency will double its presence at our nation’s ports where most dangerous products enter our nation’s markets. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission, which protects consumers from deceptive practices, will receive $27 million more than in fiscal year 2010. Both consumer protection-oriented agencies will improve their websites and telephone services for all consumers, including Spanish speaking consumers. The bill also recognizes that the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has imposed new responsibilities on the Securities and Exchange Commission to regulate derivatives, credit rating agencies, hedge funds, and investment advisers. We boost SEC funding by $205 million, the full extent authorized by the new Reform Act. A second major theme of the bill is to make sure capital and other assistance gets to small businesses and low-income communities – not just to large businesses and the wealthy. Funding increases are directed to the two key agencies which play important roles in this area. The Small Business Administration receives $225 million more than fiscal year 2010. The bill also fully funds two new initiatives at the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund with $50 million for the Bank on USA Initiative and $25 million for the Healthy Food Financing Initiative. Our third priority is supporting equitable and efficient administration of justice in the Federal courts. The Judiciary initially came in with a request for a large increase over this year, more than the entire increase in our allocation for fiscal year 2011. We worked closely with the Judiciary to pare down that request while maintaining current services and avoiding reductions in force. The fourth theme is to provide for fair and effective collection of taxes. The bill provides funding for the President’s request for the IRS initiative to curb offshore tax avoidance. We need to close the $300 billion gap between taxes owed and taxes paid. Many experts believe that offshore tax shelters account for a large share of that huge tax gap that honest taxpayers must fill. We also help our taxpayers meet their responsibilities by including resources for the IRS to provide assistance in person and on the IRS website. In addition, the bill goes beyond the President's request for shorter wait times for assistance over the phone and for special programs that assist elderly and low income taxpayers. Our final priority is to meet our obligations to the District of Columbia by including payments to address high priority needs. The bill provides $759 million in Federal funds to the District, most of which goes to the DC courts and related probation and defender services. The bill maintains support for education in the District, including a new $10 million investment in the Community College of the District of Columbia. The bill also includes $5 million to help the District combat an HIV/AIDS epidemic unparalleled in the United States. Last year was the first year in many years that this bill did not interfere in local affairs by imposing social policy restrictions on how the District could spend its own funds. This bill not only repeats that for a second year, but it also adds a new dimension. We allow the District, effective with the next fiscal year (FY2012), to implement its budget for the use of locally collected funds immediately, rather than waiting six months or more for Congressional approval. This finally puts the District in the same position as the 50 States when it comes to the use of their own local funds. Beyond these five priority areas, our bill touches the lives of Americans in other ways as well. For example, we again assist America’s farmers by including language clarifying the requirement for payment of “cash in advance” for agricultural goods sold to Cuba. We also provide increased funding for Drug-Free Communities coalitions, who work to reduce problems of youth drug abuse in their neighborhoods and communities. So let me end by saying that I believe this is a good bill that merits your support. It directs funding to improve the services that our government agencies provide to our constituents as they purchase products, start small businesses, invest their savings, and pay taxes. It addresses the needs of our courts and our nation’s capital city. We have done a lot with limited funding and we can all be proud of this bill’s support for key government functions that directly benefit our constituents. ###
07.28.2010	July 28, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his relief today as U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton issued a decision to grant a temporary injunction against the most controversial parts of Arizona’s SB 1070 immigration law. “From the beginning, I have said that Arizona’s anti-immigrant SB 1070 was unjust and unfair,” said Serrano. “Today a federal judge has prevented the most objectionable sections of the law from going into effect until their constitutionality is decided. “We all know that requiring local law enforcement to demand proof of citizenship based on appearance or behavior will make it harder for law enforcement to do their job. This anti-immigrant law has been denounced by law enforcement itself. They also understand that there is no constitutional way to carry out the law. “We have won a temporary victory in the fight against this anti-immigrant law today, but we have a long battle ahead of us. We must continue to protest this law, and do everything we can do to ensure that our friends in Arizona, whether they have documents or not, are not subject to unfair or unconstitutional behavior.” ###
07.28.2010	July 28, 2010 –Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano voted to end the Afghanistan war, and to remove U.S. forces from Pakistan unless Congress gives specific authority for them to be there. “I have deep misgivings about our ongoing involvement in Afghanistan and Pakistan,” said Serrano after the votes. “I believe that sending forces to Afghanistan after 9/11 to root out the terrorists, their supporters and their training camps was the correct move. Nine years later, I believe that it is past time to end our involvement in that nation, because it is clear we are stuck in a quagmire and not on the road to peace or victory. We have to admit that our partners in the Afghanistan government are fatally flawed and we must begin to withdraw our troops. “As for any involvement in Pakistan, it is important that Congress affirmatively approves the use of force by our armed forces and in this situation we have not. Under the Constitution, Congress has the sole power to declare war, and I am very wary of ‘mission creep’. I understand that much of the mischief happening in Afghanistan has roots across the border in Pakistan’s tribal regions, but becoming involved in combat in Pakistan is an enormous commitment and we should not allow it to happen without congressional authorization. That said, I must be clear: if there was a vote on congressional authorization for combat in Pakistan, I would vote against that too. “In short, I do not want to see our troops continue to fight valiantly in this region when it is clear that our goals will not be met. President Obama has tried to make the best of a war that was bungled and neglected for 7 years prior to his presidency, but at this point it is time to begin to withdraw and cut our losses.” ###
07.22.2010	July 22, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded passage of the long-delayed extension of unemployment benefits today. “After months of Republican delay, we are finally doing right by the people who are suffering in this troubled economy through no fault of their own,” said Serrano. “Republicans, by engaging in weeks of reckless obstruction, have put an estimated 2.5 million families in severe economic distress. Apparently they put their political ambitions and ideological beliefs ahead of families. That is unconscionable. “It is important to remember that unemployment benefits are earned by people who have lost their jobs. These are not a handout. They are meant to help people through rough economic times—and these times fit the description. And let’s be clear, no person collecting these benefits is less likely to seek a job, as Republicans sometimes claim. “I was particularly disturbed by Republicans’ claims that this unemployment extension would increase the deficit. Such concerns have not stopped them from calling for extensions of the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, which would greatly increase the deficit, nor have these concerns stopped them from voting for previous extensions of unemployment benefits. Republicans are playing politics- pure and simple- at the expense of American families. “So, today we have extended a helping hand to people in our nation as they continue to look for work. I hope that we do not go through this sort of a stand off again, with people in need stuck in the middle.” The payments are retroactive to June 2nd, when the last unemployment extension expired. The legislation is expected to help approximately 2.5 million people. ###
07.13.2010	July 13, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement upon the death of Yankee owner George Steinbrenner. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress and the NYState Assembly for more than 35 years, and his districts have always included Yankee Stadium. “As a die-hard Yankees fan, I am in mourning today over the loss of George Steinbrenner,” said Serrano. “He joins the other Yankee legends in heaven today, and will go down as one of the most important figures both in Yankee and baseball history. The work that he did to return our beloved franchise to its historical dominance will be remembered as one of the more remarkable turnarounds in baseball history. “I was just starting my career in politics when Steinbrenner took charge at the House That Ruth Built. At the time, the club was not living up to its potential. Fans wondered if Steinbrenner’s tenure as owner would last and whether it would return our club to glory. It took a few years but he did just that. “In recent years, Steinbrenner also made the right decision to keep the Yankees in the Bronx. Many communities around the region would have given anything to lure the Yankees away, but Steinbrenner realized that the Bronx Bombers were more than just a team—they were the embodiment of a New York spirit. This team has been a part of our neighborhood and our hearts since they arrived in 1923. “Steinbrenner’s work with the Yankees can only leave you with one conclusion; he was a great owner and great Yankee. We will miss “the Boss” but his legacy is living on, as last year’s World Series title proves. My thoughts are with his family in this time of mourning and we thank them for sharing George Steinbrenner with us these many years. He created many happy memories for Yankee fans around the globe and we salute him for all he did.” ###
07.06.2010	July 6, 2010 –Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano added his voice to the chorus supporting the Justice Department’s lawsuit against Arizona’s unconstitutional anti-immigrant law. Serrano said the lawsuit could not be more appropriate and would protect constitutional rights. “The lawsuit announced today by the Department of Justice strikes a blow against Arizona’s unconstitutional, anti-immigrant law, which I have repeatedly denounced,” said Serrano. “Like so many others, I have argued that beyond the obvious implications for racial profiling and harassment, it is not the place of the states to seek jurisdiction over federal affairs. “We all agree that the immigration system is broken. However, rather than pass laws like Arizona’s, I believe that the correct response is to enact comprehensive reform. We must move to a fair and just system that recognizes that immigrants are here in search of the American Dream for themselves and their children. “We have let this situation fester for far too long, and now the conversation has been hijacked by the extremists who believe that there should be no immigration, just deportation. “The federal lawsuit will push back against that notion, and further the cause of getting a comprehensive bill passed at the federal level. It is our responsibility to deal with this issue, not that of the states. “Our country is a better place than the Arizona law makes us seem. Like so many of my colleagues here at the federal level, I remain committed to comprehensive immigration reform. Our president is committed too. We just need to move this issue to the top of the agenda and break the filibusters in the Senate. The time has come to act.” ###
07.01.2010	July 1, 2010 –Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano sent a letter to Commissioner Adrian Benepe, the head of the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, urging him to name some part of Heritage Field after all-time great Yankee Bernie Williams. The full text of the letter follows: *** June 30, 2010 Commissioner Adrian BenepeNew York City Department of Parks & RecreationThe Arsenal, Central Park 830 Fifth AvenueNew York, NY 10065 Dear Commissioner Benepe: Since the mid-20th century the Puerto Rican community has been an integral part of the Bronx’s culture and identity. No one in New York is prouder of their borough than we are, and no one is more dedicated to our greatest pastime, baseball, than us. We are true Yankees fans. For this reason I ask that you consider honoring the Puerto Rican contribution to the Bronx, and to the Bronx Bombers, in some way, at the new Heritage Field currently under construction at the site of the original Yankees Stadium. In my view, the best way to acknowledge the Puerto Rican/Yankee connection would be to recognize a notable Puerto Rican Yankee in some way at Heritage Field. You should look for someone who has been a role model for our community, someone who many Bronx residents look up to, and someone that we are all proud of. There is no better suited candidate than former Major League Baseball outfielder Mr. Bernie Williams. Mr. Williams was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico and signed with the Yankees AA team in 1985. He debuted in the Major Leagues on July 7, 1991 and last played for the Yankees on October 1, 2006. There is no question that he was an asset to this historic ball club. During his career he was a five-time All-Star selection, a four-time World Series champion, a four-time Gold Glove Award winner, a Silver Slugger award winner, a 1998 AL batting champion, and an ALCS Most Valuable Player. Such dedication will not be overlooked by the many children, teenagers, and adults that will enjoy this park. Mr. Williams is very well known in the community, and is considered to be one of the best Puerto Rican baseball players the Yankees have ever had, and undoubtedly one of baseball’s greatest. Although there have been many great players who have donned the pinstripes, Mr. William’s statistics are comparable with the best. With this ball club he ranks 5th in hits, 6th in games played, 6th in homeruns, and 6th in runs batted in. Mr. Williams has always been a gentleman who embraces his fans with open arms and who never forgets to thank them for their long years of support. He is a class act, and because of the way he has conducted his off-field life; he is an outstanding role model to our young people. Our community and our borough admire Mr. Williams not only for his great baseball legacy but also for the inspiration he provides many Bronx residents. Currently Bernie Williams has taken a new path in life by pursuing his musical career. With this new talent he has performed in numerous charity events. In September 2009, he was nominated for a Latin Grammy for his Moving Forward album. Honoring Bernie Williams in some way at Heritage Field will not only give recognition to his great work for the Yankees, but would also be seen as an appreciation for the many Puerto Ricans and Latinos who have helped shape our borough and community. Sincerely, Congressman José E. Serrano ###
06.17.2010	June 17, 2010 –Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano sent a second letter to Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig asking that MLB move the 2011 All Star Game out of Arizona because of the state’s recent anti-immigrant law. Serrano sent a similar letter some weeks ago, but as of yet, Selig has not responded to it, nor to calls from various other groups to move the game. Serrano feels that the league, which has more than 25% foreign-born players, should not support a state that has taken such a harsh anti-immigrant stance. The full text of the letter follows: *** June 17, 2010 Commissioner Allan H. "Bud" SeligThe Office of the Commissioner of Baseball245 Park Avenue, 31st FloorNew York, NY 10167 Dear Commissioner Selig: I am disappointed that you have not yet responded to repeated calls, from me and others, to move the location of the 2011 All-Star Game from Phoenix, Arizona. I write again to urge you to speak out against Arizona’s law, and make sure that Major League Baseball does not reward the state of Arizona for its conduct by holding the 2011 All-Star Game in Phoenix. As you surely know by now, Arizona’s extremist anti-immigrant law has generated great outrage among many Americans. Many, including myself, believe that the law will allow law enforcement to racially profile, harass, and arrest individuals solely based on their national origin and ethnicity. Numerous influential groups representing Latinos, including the National Council of La Raza (NCLR) and the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, have asked that Major League Baseball move the site of the 2011 All-Star Game. In addition, the Major League Baseball Players Association has condemned Arizona’s law, and several Major League players and managers have spoken out against the law. On Opening Day 2010, more than 25% of major leaguers were born outside of the United States. In addition, more than 45% of minor leaguers playing today were born outside of the United States. Baseball today is a global game, and the All-Star Game is a wonderful exhibition of that. Major League Baseball is a standard bearer for diversity and tolerance— it should not tacitly support Arizona’s immigration policy by holding such a prestigious event there. Some have said that we should not inject politics into sports. But this debate is about human dignity and respect for our Constitution. Any time an injustice occurs, we all have a responsibility to speak out against it. Major League Baseball should follow the example of the great Roberto Clemente, one of the game’s all-time greats. Clemente was never afraid to speak out in opposition to discrimination against Latino players, nor was he afraid to act to ensure that all people were treated humanely. Given the legacy of Clemente, and the large numbers of Latinos who play the game today, Major League Baseball has an obligation to act and speak out against Arizona’s actions. Your silence is perceived as an insult to the millions of Latinos and other Americans who are passionate about our national pastime. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
06.14.2010	June 14, 2010 –Washington, DC – Today, the first fully electric medium-duty delivery truck in New York City was unveiled in the Bronx. The vehicle, which is owned and operated by Down East Seafood in Hunts Point, was dubbed “Big Green” by Down East’s Ed Taylor. It is a battery-powered, refrigerated cargo truck manufactured in Kansas City, MO by Smith Electric Vehicles US. The zero-emissions truck was built for carrying fresh food and frozen products, like the shellfish and seafood that Down East hauls. The purchase of the truck was underwritten in part through federal Congestion Mitigation Air Quality funding administered by The New York State Energy and Research Development Authority (NYSERDA). Additional financing was provided by the Bronx Empowerment Zone, a federal program administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Congressman José E. Serrano and others see the truck’s debut as particularly timely as the oil-produced disaster in the Gulf of Mexico continues to unfold and also as a dramatic first step towards cleaning the notoriously bad air in the South Bronx. “Down East’s new truck gives us a glimpse of a clean energy future that is within our reach. It is appropriate that this technology will be introduced here in the South Bronx, a hot zone for childhood asthma and other respiratory diseases,” said Congressman Serrano. “I am confident that this technology will quickly prove its worth and cost-effectiveness to public and private fleet operators. EVs are clearly a wise investment for this country, but they are also a smart investment for small businesses and I believe that we will see many more follow Ed Taylor’s admirable lead. It is the way the nation must go if we are to clean our air, reinvigorate our manufacturing base, and ensure that we never have cataclysmic oil spills like the one unfolding in the Gulf of Mexico. “I am so proud that a diverse set of actors was able to come together to kick-start the switch to clean electric vehicles in our nation’s truck fleets. Another crucial step is to increase demand for electric trucks, which will drive down the cost of batteries, electric drivetrains, and other components, making them more affordable for small businesses. Passage of the American Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Act, which I introduced late last year, would switch the US Postal Service to a plug-in electric fleet and help lower component costs for the industry and the consumer. There are many routes to this clean energy future, but today we have taken a concrete step in the right direction.” The Center for Sustainable Energy at Bronx Community College, an initiative launched in 2003 with funding secured by Congressman Serrano, served as the project’s facilitator, identifying sources of funding and providing the technical expertise Down East needed to finalize the purchase. NYSERDA funded a portion of the acquisition cost through the New York City Private Fleet Alternative Fuel/Electric Vehicle Program, a federally-funded State and local partnership between NYSERDA and the New York City Department of Transportation. "We are proud to be among the first adopters of the cleanest transportation technology available," said Ed Taylor, owner and operator of Down East Seafood. "Our home community, Hunts Point, has one of the highest rates of childhood asthma in the nation. The small step we take today is our way to begin mitigating the longstanding and destructive impacts of diesel trucking on our community. We are also looking forward to telling any business considering electric vehicles how well Big Green works, and how much it has benefited us. We are very passionate about the environment, but this is a great business decision too. With our refrigeration needs, we are asking a lot of this truck, but we have found it completely up to the task. Now we are not only the purveyor of the freshest seafood in the tristate area, but also a leader in the push to go green. We had help from a variety of folks and appreciated their commitment to helping us get Big Green." “With concerns increasing every day about the future of energy supplies, electric vehicles can give business owners unprecedented cost certainty as they look to managing the next five to ten years of their fleets,” said Bryan Hansel, CEO of Smith Electric Vehicles U.S., an all-electric commercial truck manufacturer. “Continued government support of the industry will allow producers to rapidly scale up production, lowering costs and driving the creation of high-quality manufacturing jobs.” Francis J. Murray Jr., president and CEO of NYSERDA said, "As the technology driving Down East Seafood's new electric delivery vehicle becomes more widely available, the people of New York City and New York State will benefit from a more sustainable delivery system that will help reduce our carbon footprint and improve our air quality. I commend Congressman Serrano for his leadership in introducing the American Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Act in Congress late last year. This legislation will spur economic activity within our clean energy economy and create jobs while helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and our dependence on foreign sources of petroleum ." Dr. Carolyn G. Williams, President of Bronx Community College of the City University of New York, stated: “Bronx Community College, home of the Center for Sustainable Energy, is proud to be a partner with exceptional leaders such as Congressman Serrano, conscientious local businesses such as Down East Seafood, government funding resources such as NYSERDA and BOEDC to promote the use of clean energy technology.” Dr. Williams added that “Collaborations such as these elevate BCC’s role as a community resource.” “Now more than ever, it is critical that we transition to alternative vehicle technology," said Tria Case, University Director of Sustainability at CUNY and Executive Director of the Center for Sustainable Energy at Bronx Community College. “Helping businesses like Down East Seafood maximize opportunities to achieve sustainability and advance to clean energy technology are at the core of the Center for Sustainable Energy’s mission.” "The POINT CDC is thrilled with the precedent that Ed Taylor and Downeast Seafood have set with this first of its kind electric truck in Hunts Point,” said Maria Torres, Chief Operating Officer, The POINT Community Development Corporation, a lead organization in greening The Bronx and Hunts Point. “For years we have been fighting for industry and residents to coexist more peacefully and live together in better harmony in our neighborhood. This truck shows that our vision is possible; that jobs can be created and businesses can thrive here in Hunts Point without needing to pollute our air and waterways. We are excited to announce this truck will be featured as a float in the 7th annual Hunts Point Fish Parade & Summer Festival this Saturday June 19th". "The time to move beyond our dependence on oil is now," said Luke Tonachel, senior transportation analyst for the Natural Resources Defense Council. “Electric vehicles demonstrate that we have the technology today to transform the way we drive and be a world leader in plug-in electric vehicle manufacturing and use. We simply need to capitalize on the opportunity." "By leading the way with Big Green, they have paved a path towards a carbon free delivery system that allows NYC residents to receive their goods and services the clean way. Alternative fueled vehicles and advanced vehicles like this one are the key to our future and the transition to cleaner vehicles is the key to the health of future generations" said Christina Ficicchia, Executive Director, New York City and Lower Hudson Valley Clean Communities, Inc. (NYCLHVCC)
06.10.2010	June 10, 2010 –Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the first $250 checks will go out this week to help an estimated 3000 Bronx Medicare recipients who fall in the prescription drug benefit ‘donut hole.’ The checks, which were mandated by the health care reform package, will be mailed monthly to seniors who enter the prescription drug coverage gap this year. The ‘donut hole’ coverage gap is currently the period in the prescription drug benefit, once their prescription drug costs exceed $2,830, in which the beneficiary pays 100 percent of the cost of their drugs until they hit the catastrophic coverage threshold. “We are starting to see the benefits of the health care bill that we passed earlier this year,” said Serrano. “These $250 checks, which will go out to thousands of Bronx seniors, represent the first step towards providing full coverage of prescription drugs for Medicare recipients. This payment to seniors will put around $750,000 in total into the pocketbooks of Bronx seniors. Seniors tell me that this donut hole is a considerable burden and I am very proud that we were able to finally begin to close it.” The checks represent the first step in the process to close the coverage gap. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs, and by the end of the decade, the ‘donut hole’ will be completely eliminated. The spending associated with these checks and closing the ‘donut hole’ is fully offset by savings, and will not add to the deficit. “Bronx seniors often face serious economic difficulties, and finding themselves in the coverage gap can make for difficult choices between needed medicine and things like food and rent. But with this benefit, Medicare recipients don’t have to do anything to get the $250 check – once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830, the one-time check will be issued automatically. I urge Bronx seniors to be on the lookout for fraud—there is nothing to sign up for, nor anything needed of you—and anyone who tells you otherwise is incorrect and possibly trying to defraud you.” The measures to make prescription drugs more affordable for seniors are only one of the many provisions included for seniors in the health care reform bill. The reform measure also: • Provides free preventive care services under Medicare, beginning in 2011; • Strengthens Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029; • Improves seniors’ access to doctors; • Continues to reduce waste, fraud and abuse; • Improves care by helping doctors communicate and coordinate; • Expands home and community-based services to keep seniors in their home, instead of in nursing homes. ###
06.04.2010	June 4, 2010 –Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his deep sadness today at the passing of Caguas Mayor and PPD leader William Miranda Marin. “I am deeply saddened by the passing of William Miranda Marin, who was one of Puerto Rico’s best and brightest, ” said Serrano. “Miranda Marin was a true Puerto Rican patriot and a great public servant of the highest order. From his time at the head of the Puerto Rican National Guard to his multiple terms as Mayor of Caguas, Miranda Marin exemplified the spirit of public service. “His time as Mayor of Caguas had a profound and lasting effect not only on that beautiful city but also on the rest of Puerto Rico. He showed what the combination of vision and skillful execution means for a city in Puerto Rico—and how much progress can be made with such a combination of skills. El Valle del Turabo has become one of the most innovative and progressive areas in Puerto Rico and much of that is the handiwork of William Miranda Marin. “When we learned last year that our friend had pancreatic cancer, we knew that he would put up a valiant fight. That fight ended yesterday, but his fighting spirit and the memory of his tremendous character will live on. “In the wake of his passing, I believe the greatest testimonial we can make to his legacy will be to continue to support his life’s work—making Puerto Rico a better place and ensuring that it gains the respect and recognition it deserves. “William Miranda Marin was a person who showed us the best of Puerto Rican political leadership. We must learn from his exemplary service and life and rededicate ourselves to the ideals that he espoused. Puerto Rico has lost a leading light, but his memory will not be soon forgotten.” ###
05.28.2010	May 28, 2010 –Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of “The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010” today, which passed the House. Upon doing so, Serrano said that the bill was “extremely important to the American economy” and would “help Bronx families in real and concrete ways.” He highlighted several provisions contained within the bill that are of particular importance to the Bronx. “I was pleased that many of the provisions included in the bill we passed today will directly benefit people in my community,” said Serrano. “Through this bill, we are working to ensure that people who have lost their jobs are not left without options and unemployment benefits. In addition to extending unemployment insurance programs, we replenished the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families jobs and emergency fund, which has helped so many families find and keep jobs. We can’t cut the lifelines for people struggling in this economy. “We also made sure that there will be funding for summer jobs programs that are so important to young people seeking work while school is out. Another key investment is $1 billion in capital funds for the National Housing Trust Fund and more than $65 million in Project-based Section 8 vouchers, which are of such vital importance to people in the Bronx. These were just a few of the most important tools that we are providing our communities as we work our way out of the economic downturn. “The bill also made a longer-term investment in business development that will help the Bronx. It extended the New Markets Tax Credit and the tax incentives for Empowerment Zones. Both of these programs have had a positive effect on the Bronx and have led to the creation of many businesses and jobs. With their extension, we can be confident that there is support for investing in the Bronx and building businesses that can serve our community and provide jobs. “Our economy is still in a deep hole and even though there are some positive signs, Bronx families are still struggling. Today we made a large payment toward short-term relief and long-term investments in the Bronx. This is the best way to handle this situation, as we are making sure that people are getting help now, but also that our community continues to improve economically in the future. I look forward to hearing stories from constituents in coming weeks and months that illustrate how this bill’s provisions helped them.” ###
05.21.2010	May 20, 2010 –Washington, DC – Last night, Congressman José E. Serrano was given two awards for his success in ending the ban on use of federal funds for syringe exchange programs, as well as his work to allow the District of Columbia to use its local funds for these programs. Serrano was the author of H.R. 179, the Community AIDS and Hepatitis Prevention Act, which, with 117 co-sponsors, was instrumental in demonstrating the support for an end to the federal funds ban. The Labor-HHS bill for FY 2010 did not continue a blanket ban on use of federal funds, but instead left the decision to local authorities. Watch Serrano accept the award: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gz7lDC7SfFc “For too long syringe exchange – a proven tool in the battle against HIV/AIDS—has been politicized and caught up in fears about drug use,” said Serrano. “But the science and experiences of local programs across the nation have shown that there are two basic facts about syringe exchange. First of all, we know that it reduces the transmission of HIV and hepatitis. Secondly, it does not increase drug use. With these facts in our corner, our fight was to show that federal support for these programs was not only the right thing to do, but also necessary. “We took the first steps towards that when we lifted the ban on use of DC local funds for syringe exchange programs three years ago. When people in Congress saw how much support there was for that move, we were able to move to end the federal ban. We were able to remove the total ban in the Labor-HHS bill for FY2010, thanks to the support of all the co-sponsors of H.R. 179 and Chairman Obey. “The awards for this success really belongs to the advocates who did so much work to educate and organize around this issue. Without their incredible work, we would never be where we are. We will together continue this work as we know that it saves lives.” ###
05.19.2010	May 19, 2010 –Washington, DC – Last night, Congressman José E. Serrano introduced H.Res. 1370, a resolution urging Major League Baseball to move the 2011 All-Star Game from Arizona to another state as long as Arizona’s punitive anti-immigrant law remains in effect. Serrano called for such a move in a letter to MLB Commissioner Bud Selig in a letter several weeks ago that has gone unanswered. “There is no doubt in my mind that Major League Baseball should take the interests of players of Latino descent into consideration as they decide whether to do business in the harsh anti-Latino environment that Arizona has created,” said Serrano. “While those in favor of this law claim that it is merely about undocumented immigrants, the truth is that Arizona’s statute makes all those who are of Latino descent targets of racial profiling. Baseball players would undoubtedly be affected by this new law and MLB should listen to its players’ union which has spoken clearly on this topic. “I have introduced a resolution in the Congress which would add to the pressure on MLB to move the 2011 All-Star Game to a state which welcomes Latinos, whether they are ballplayers or undocumented day laborers. Some claim that sports and politics should not mix, but I believe that it is not ‘just politics’ to denounce an injustice, wherever it arises. And the truth is that baseball has always been a leader for our nation since the days of integration and Jackie Robinson. Making a meaningful statement like moving the All-Star Game would put Major League Baseball on the side of Latinos, who make up more than 27% of all the players in the majors and more than 40% of professional players. “I’m distressed that Bud Selig has not responded yet to my letter as well as other calls from around the baseball community to move the game. He may think that he can just ignore this issue and it will go away, but I think that in fact it will become more and more a problem if he does not take a stand. Baseball has a responsibility to its players and to its fans—and should not just take them for granted. I again urge Commissioner Selig to strike a blow in favor of equality and speak out against this unjust law. “I will spend coming days and weeks gathering co-sponsors for this resolution with the hopes of sending a message to Selig that Congress too is asking him to move the game. There can be no toleration of the Arizona law by any organization that employs and is supported by Latinos – and Major League Baseball is perhaps the highest profile example of such an organization. We all must reject this law both in word and deed.” ###
05.14.2010	***Please note these are separate events on separate days*** *** Serrano to Help Cut Ribbon on Newly Renovated High Bridge Library Branch WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Paul LeClerc, President of the New York Public Library; Councilwoman Helen D. Foster; Assemblywoman Vanessa L. Gibson; Lloyd Ultan, Bronx Borough Historian WHEN: Saturday, May 15, 2010, 10 a.m. WHERE: NYPL High Bridge Branch at 78 West 168th Street between Shakespeare and Woodycrest Avenues in the Bronx WHAT: Congressman Serrano and other officials will cut the ribbon on the newly renovated High Bridge Branch of the New York Public Library. Serrano was a key supporter in the project, which was one of the most heavily-used facilities in the NYPL system. With this overhaul the branch will not only serve the community with books, periodicals and computers but also much-needed meeting space for public use. *** Serrano to Help Inaugurate New Scholarship Fund Who: Congressman Serrano, members of the IS 116 -- Rafael Hernandez Middle School Alumni Group When: Saturday, May 15 2010, 11 a.m. Where: IS 116- Rafael Hernandez Middle School Schoolyard, 977 Fox Street, between Westchester & 163rd Streets, The Bronx, NY What: Congressman Serrano will join with the Alumni of IS 116 -- Rafael Hernandez Middle School, to announce the newly formed Joe Conzo & Joe Conzo Jr. Scholarship, which will benefit students from the middle school for college education in the future. *** Serrano Grand Marshal at Bronx Puerto Rican Day Parade WHO: Congressman Serrano; Congressman Joe Crowley; Charito Cisnero; Councilwoman Annabel Palma; Councilwoman Maria Del Carmen Arroyo; Borough President, Ruben Diaz, Jr.; Comptroller John Liu; Rev. Ruben Diaz Sr.; Assemblyman, Marcus Crespo; Councilman Joel Rivera WHEN: Sunday, May 16, 2010, 11 a.m and 1 p.m. WHERE: Parade ceremony will start at 11 am at Echo Place and Grand Concourse Parade at 1 p.m. from 178th Street and Grand Concourse and ending on 168th Street, Grand Concourse WHAT: Congressman Serrano will be the 2010 Grand Marshal of the Bronx Puerto Rican Day Parade. The Parade, in its 22nd year, honors and celebrates the Puerto Rican community of the Bronx, New York. Serrano is the longest serving public official of Puerto Rican descent in the nation. *** Serrano to Break Ground for New POTS Facility to Fight Hunger WHO: Congressman Serrano; New York Deputy Mayor for Health and Human Services Linda I. Gibbs; City Council Member Joel Rivera; City Council Member Annabel Palma; Sister Mary Alice Hannan, O.P., Executive Director, Part of the Solution; Kimberly Latimer-Nelligan, Chief Operating Officer, Low Income Investment Fund; Priscilla Almodovar, Chief Operating Officer, Chase Community Development Banking WHEN: Monday, May 17, 2010, 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. WHERE: Part of the Solution 2761-2763 Webster Avenue Bronx, NY 10458 WHAT: Part of the Solution (POTS), one of the first emergency food providers located in the Bronx, will break ground on a new facility that will serve more than 10,000 people annually. Congressman Serrano is a strong supporter of POTS and its work, and sees it as one of the key allies in the fight against hunger in the Bronx. ###
05.12.2010	May 12, 2010 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced he had joined the House Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Subcommittee, in addition to serving as chair of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, and as a member of the Commerce-Justice-Science Subcommittee. “I am very happy to be joining the Labor-HHS-Education Subcommittee and to begin working on the very important issues that it covers,” said Serrano. “So many of the issues that face my community – from education to worker protections to health care services – can be addressed through the oversight and funding of these agencies. It will be a great opportunity for positive progress for me to continue my agenda of helping the underserved, reducing inequality and provide a helping hand for those at the bottom of our nation’s economic ladder. “I am particularly pleased to be able to work closely on what has become one of my signature issues—federal funding for syringe exchange programs. We had a huge victory on this issue in last year’s bill, as the ban on federal funding was finally removed. I look forward to making more positive change on this issue and in others related to public health and HIV/AIDS. “It will be an honor to serve on this panel under the chairmanship of David Obey as he winds down his career on our committee. He has led this subcommittee for many years and made a real difference in the lives of so many Americans. We will have to work hard in coming years to uphold that legacy. “I am also quite pleased to be able to serve on this subcommittee while also holding my chairmanship on the Financial Services Subcommittee and my seat on Commerce-Justice-Science. I believe that I will continue to make positive contributions on all these subcommittees and to bring a Bronx and New York perspective to these subcommittees.” *** Jurisdiction of House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor-HHS-EducationDepartment of Education Department of Health and Human Services (Except Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry; Food and Drug Administration; Indian Health Services and Facilities; and National Institute of Environmental Sciences (formerly EPA/Superfund)) Department of Labor Related Agencies Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled Corporation for National and Community Service Corporation for Public Broadcasting Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission Institute of Museum and Library Services Medicare Payment Advisory Commission National Commission on Libraries and Information Science National Council on Disability National Education Goals Panel National Labor Relations Board National Mediation Board Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission Railroad Retirement Board Social Security Administration ###
05.06.2010	Washington, DC – May 5, 2010 – Congressman José E. Serrano today expressed his sadness to hear of Chairman David Obey’s decision to retire after 25 terms in elected office including 41 years in the U.S. House. Serrano began his service on the Appropriations Committee in 1993 and considers Chairman Obey a mentor and a friend. “I was dismayed to hear that Chairman Obey is planning to retire, but I understand and sympathize with his reasons,” Serrano said. “Our business can be tiring and the ongoing fights over legislation can be grueling. No one has fought more of these battles than Dave Obey, and no one has worked harder over these years. I respect his need to be with his family after 48 years in this business. “When I first joined the Appropriations Committee, there was an old guard that did things a certain way, but Dave Obey was one of the senior members that could be approached and was open to helping new Members like me. After the Democrats took the Majority in 2006, Chairman Obey played a huge role in creating the subcommittee that I now chair, and ensuring that I became chairman. I still remain grateful for that action. “Over the years, I learned so much from Dave Obey. Watching him in action was a lesson in steely resolve, gruff humor and an underlying gracious charm. Those have been his hallmarks, along with a deep and abiding commitment to progressive policies like those of his idol, Robert Lafollette. “Chairman Obey and I could not come from more different places in this country, but yet we see eye-to-eye on so many policies. I believe that comes from a commitment to the common person that is felt in the gut, not in the head. Chairman Obey has led the Appropriations Committee skillfully and for the betterment of this country for a long time, and I know I am not alone in expressing my gratitude for his service, for his mentorship, and for his friendship. He will be missed in coming Congresses.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
04.29.2010	April 29, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today spoke in favor of, and voted for H.R. 2499, ‘The Puerto Rico Democracy Act’ and then applauded his colleagues for the strong vote in favor of allowing Puerto Ricans to define their status once and for all. He was in the Speaker’s chair to gavel the vote closed. Watch Serrano speak on the bill here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m8vHAyi_LSs Watch Serrano gavel the vote here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=03K1NHn5qko “Today’s vote was a strong display on the part of the U.S. Congress that we would like to hear the opinions of the Puerto Rican people on status, while laying out a process that does not favor one option or another.” said Serrano. “The options laid out by H.R. 2499 are fair.” “For many years I have been saying that the current colonial status must change. Today the House has agreed with that position. This is a historic step. “In the 112 years that Puerto Rico has been held as a colony and territory by the United States, never once has Congress asked respectfully the opinions of the Puerto Rican people on status. Today that long history of disrespect and poor treatment has changed. Surely all Puerto Ricans, regardless of their feelings on status, can appreciate this historic change in posture. There is no doubt that the House understands that the Puerto Rican people deserve the opportunity to speak their mind. “Our nation owes Puerto Rico a huge debt of gratitude for all that the Puerto Rican people have contributed over the years. Today we have made a decision to show our respect for these incredible American citizens and all they have done. We have finally made a gesture that starts to erase their historic substandard treatment.” ###
04.28.2010	April 28, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today called for Major League Baseball to move the site of the 2011 All-Star Game from Phoenix, due to the extremist anti-immigrant law enacted last week in Arizona. “As a fervent baseball fan and a supporter of immigrants’ rights, I cannot abide the thought of a celebration like the All-Star Game being held in Phoenix next year,” said Serrano. “I will be reaching out to contacts in Major League Baseball in the coming days and urging them in the strongest possible terms to move the All-Star Game to another state. With nearly 1/3 of all Major Leaguers coming from foreign countries, there is no way that a state with this discriminatory law should be the host. “Whether a player is foreign born, or just of an ethnicity that could be targeted by this unconstitutional law, everyone should be scared of a law that empowers law enforcement to arrest people based on looks. All players, whatever their national origin, should join with citizens across this nation in saying ‘this law is wrong.’ Major League Baseball should do the same. “I would remind MLB that in 1993, the NFL was clear in its statement against this sort of behavior when it rescinded its offer to Arizona to host the Super Bowl. This came after NFL players warned that they would not play in a state that did not celebrate the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. I urge the Major Leaguers playing today to follow the lead of their NFL counterparts in taking a strong stand against racism. “This anti-immigrant law is unjust, wrong-headed, mean-spirited, and unconstitutional. It is important that everyone who believes in justice and our national spirit of decency speak out against this measure. MLB has a very loud megaphone and their rejection of Arizona’s action would be an important demonstration to Arizona that we do not tolerate such displays of intolerance in our nation.” ###
04.23.2010	April 23, 2010 –The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano denounced the enactment of a harsh anti-immigrant bill in Arizona today by that state’s legislature and governor. Under the law, law enforcement officers are required to ask people about their immigration status if they have reason to believe they are undocumented. “It is a sad day when any state makes racial profiling and discrimination the law,” said Congressman Serrano. “It is a deeply flawed measure that singles out a specific group for harassment. “Our nation has a long tradition of welcoming immigrants, but today the government of Arizona turned their back on that tradition in favor of anti-immigrant grandstanding. “We all know that the only way to bring immigrants out of the shadows is to enact comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. “Laws like this give greater urgency to our work to pass a humane, non-punitive comprehensive immigration reform package. The time has come for action, before this law becomes a model for other anti-immigrant activists and is replicated elsewhere.” ###
04.22.2010	Urges Renewed Commitment to Environmental Justice April 22, 2010 –Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano commemorated the 40th Earth Day today, as he urged a new commitment to environmental justice for the communities that have traditionally been left out of the environmental gains of the past decades. Serrano considers the new interest in the environment to be one of his greatest legacies in the Bronx, as he pioneered and directed funding to many of the efforts that have done the most to change the face of the borough. “As we celebrate this 40th Earth Day, it is important to reflect on how far we have come, and also look to the future and see what remains to be done,” said Congressman Serrano. “The challenges facing the world and nation are vast in this area, and we are making progress. Personally I like to reflect on local successes and challenges on this occasion. “Over the past decades, the Bronx has been greatly disadvantaged by the huge array of environmental burdens we have been asked to bear on behalf of our city and our region. For too long, the prevailing attitude in our city was ‘if it’s unpleasant or noxious, put it in the Bronx’. I am proud to report that we have changed the dynamic on that behavior. But we are still dealing with the legacy of that approach and the policymaking and planning that followed. We are making progress, but we still have a long way to go. “One of our greatest successes began more than a decade ago when my office convened a group of concerned citizens and officials who began to study and plan to restore the Bronx River. I was successful in securing their first funding, and have worked to ensure that the federal government is a partner in their efforts. After a decade of work, and more than $30 million in directed federal dollars, our hard work and investments have paid off. We have a river that is back from the dead. It is filled with wildlife and surrounded by an increasing number of parks and green spaces. It has served as the catalyst for a powerful green movement in our community. The benefits have been far more than we ever dreamed of years ago when we began this project. “The bottom line for our community is that we have learned to stand up to the rest of the City and say ‘we deserve a clean environment too.’ We have said this with increasing frequency and with increasing success. We have put in hard work and seen our efforts pay off. Our successes translate into a better environment for our borough and for the people and wildlife that live there. “This is the action that is at the heart of the ideals of Earth Day—it’s about raising environmental consciousness, working to reverse environmental harm, reclaiming our green spaces, and teaching future generations to value and honor their natural surroundings. We are a leading community in these areas and our movement is only growing stronger. Earth Day is the perfect moment to savor our progress and to look forward to making even more positive change in the future. Our community depends on it and so does the world.” ###
04.16.2010	April 16, 2010 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano applauded President Obama’s decision to order the Department of Health and Human Services to issue new rules for hospitals across the nation that allow visitation rights for LGBT partners of patients being treated. “Too often the loved ones of LGBT patients are prohibited from visiting their partners, or even spouses, during hospitalization and treatment,” said Congressman Serrano. “They have been barred from helping with their partners’ major health decisions. And perhaps worst of all they have been forbidden from being with them in their final days. President Obama took the first step towards undoing this shameful situation. As our nation moves towards true equality for our LGBT friends and families, we must continue to take brave and righteous steps like the President took yesterday. Our nation is built upon respect for individuals to live their lives as they see fit, and our legal and political structures should not keep any person from being with whom they choose in all major moments of their lives. I applaud President Obama for striking this blow for equality, and look forward to more of these steps in the near future.” “Having the opportunity to accompany a loved one who is ill is not only an LGBT right, it is a civil and human right," said Senator Serrano. "Respecting the wishes of patients by granting proper visitation rights to persons other than family members, and allowing them to decide who can make medical decisions on their behalf is vital to enhancing the integrity of our communities. As Americans, we share a fundamental commitment to equality for all, and I applaud President Obama for taking this very important step on the road to making this a more just, unified and inclusive nation.” The White House announced late Thursday that President Obama had issued a memorandum to HHS Secretary Sebelius ordering her to make the visitation rule changes for any hospital that participates in Medicare or Medicaid. Since virtually all hospitals in the nation participate in those programs, the rules would effectively change policy across the nation. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. Senator José M. Serrano represents the 28th State Senate District, which includes neighborhoods in the South Bronx, East Harlem, Yorkville, and Roosevelt Island.
04.15.2010	We have the distinct honor of being joined by two distinguished Justices of the Supreme Court regarding its appropriations request for the upcoming fiscal year. And we do so at a time when the court’s longest serving member, Justice John Paul Stevens, has recently announced that he will retire when the court finishes its work for the summer. I know that I speak for every member of this committee when I ask the justices here today to pass along this subcommittee’s appreciation and thanks to Justice Stevens for his decades of service to our country. These annual hearings are a rare and important opportunity for our two branches of government to interact. Congress, of course, has constitutional responsibility over Federal spending, which includes appropriations for the Supreme Court and the rest of the Judiciary. Although I always have some concern about asking the Third Branch to come and testify before us, these hearings provide a valuable chance not just to help us understand the Supreme Court’s budgetary needs, but for the nation’s highest Court to discuss issues affecting the Judiciary as a whole. Hopefully, our two branches get to know one another a little better as well. Meeting the needs of the Judicial Branch is a priority for this subcommittee. The courts have a vital role to play in our society where the rule of law is a core principle. We need to be sure that the courts have the resources they need to dispense justice with reasonable speed and care, as well as proper regard for the rights of defendants and litigants and the needs of society. At the same time we must also exercise due diligence in spending matters and balance competing needs. In some years, the percentage increases requested by the court have been substantial, as have those of many agencies. As we put together our plans for fiscal year 2011 we face a more austere environment for nonemergency spending. We look forward today to a discussion of the budget needs of the Supreme Court, as well as a broader conversation about the federal judiciary as a whole. Our witnesses are Justice Clarence Thomas and Justice Stephen Breyer—both of whom have appeared before this subcommittee previously. Justice Thomas was nominated to the Court in 1991 by the first President Bush, after serving as Assistant Secretary of Education for Civil Rights, Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and as a judge on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, among other positions. Justice Breyer joined the Court in 1994 as a nominee of President Clinton. Before that he was a professor at Harvard Law School, staff member for the Senate Judiciary Committee, and judge and then chief judge on the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. We welcome both of you today. We’re glad that your previous appearances before the subcommittee were pleasant enough that you agreed to return for repeat performances. Thank you for joining us today. ###
03.31.2010	March 31, 2010 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the new student loan reform and Pell grant provisions signed into law this week by President Obama, which will make college more affordable for students and particularly help the African-American and Latino communities access higher education. “For too long, costs for higher education have made college a huge financial stretch for Bronx students, but with this new reform package, the government is extending a helping hand,” said Serrano. “I am so gratified that these reforms were included in the health care reconciliation package so as to overcome Republican filibusters in the Senate. Bronx families whose children have achieved the dream of going to college need help, and this bill will address that need. “I am particularly pleased that the reform package will direct $2.55 billion in funds to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, and other Minority Serving Institutions. These are some of the very places where the best and brightest from our borough go to college to continue their rise to the top. Helping these educational institutions is a huge help to our community and I must applaud President Obama for ensuring this happened. “For those who are getting started or continuing in their college careers at a community college like Hostos or Bronx Community College, this package will help them too. Not only will their loans be subsidized at a better rate, and their Pell Grants will be increased, but the community college system will be receiving $2 billion in new funding. This is a historic investment in our nation’s future, and our children’s education.” Key points: • This is the largest single investment in higher education in American history. • Provides more than $2 billion in investments in community colleges in the next four years, ensuring that these critical institutions – which today serve more than 6 million students – can continue to grow and thrive. • Authorizes $2.55 billion worth of funds for Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, and other Minority Serving Institutions • Provides $40 billion in Pell Grant funding and will increase those grants with inflation to help students pay for college in years to come. • Beginning in the summer of 2014, no new borrower will need to pay more than 10 percent of his or her discretionary income in loan repayments and students who keep up their payments will have their remaining debt forgiven after 20 years. • Students who pursue a career in public service—like teaching, nursing, or the military—will be able to qualify for debt forgiveness after 10 years. “This bill marks a turning point in our nation’s commitment to higher education.” Serrano added. “We are saying to our families ‘we will help all children access higher education, because we do not believe it is simply for those that can afford it.’ That is historic in and of itself. The President and Democrats campaigned on a message of change in 2008, and this is yet another fulfillment of that promise.” ###
03.23.2010	March 23, 2010 – Washington, DC –This morning, Congressman José E. Serrano joined President Obama, the Democratic House Leadership, and other Congressional Democrats for the signing of the health care reform bill, which passed the House Sunday night. “Witnessing the signing of this historic legislation will go down as one of the highlights of my legislative career,” Serrano said. “Future generations will look back on this moment as a turning point in American history not unlike the passage of Social Security and Medicare. Over the past 14 months, the health care debate has taken many twists and turns, and yet despite the many scare tactics and misrepresentations, Democrats stuck together and passed this bill. The bottom line is that we knew all along that despite the false claims, this bill will help Americans to lead better, more healthy lives, without fear of illness or financial ruin. “Many Democrats, including me, have spent careers running for office on the notion that we must all work together to make our country a more fair and just place for everyone. Today we take a huge step forward in that effort. We are accomplishing a goal that eluded leaders of both parties from Teddy Roosevelt to Harry Truman and Bill Clinton. President Obama and this Democratic Congress have finally delivered on the reform that so many have pushed for—and without their efforts we would have never arrived where we are today. “I look forward to watching this bill grow in popularity as the provisions are implemented. I know that many families will feel relief when they realize that their children can no longer be excluded from coverage for pre-existing conditions. I know that many individuals will feel secure knowing that they no longer have to fear lifetime or yearly caps on their insurance company’s expenditures to keep them well. I know that many parents will feel hopeful knowing that their children can stay covered on the family plan through age 26. These are immediate and vitally important changes that families have been desperate for. In future years we will see the number of uninsured drop by 32 million people and watch as health costs stop shooting up every year for families. This is truly a historic accomplishment. “Today we watch as this President, who arrived in office with such promise and with the hopes of so many Americans resting on him, completes one of the biggest policy accomplishments of his young presidency. I look forward to many more of these signing ceremonies in coming years, as we make good on the promise of change that was made in the 2008 election. The process may not have been pretty, but the end result is a change in our American society that we can all support –as America is made more fair and more just for all.” ###
03.21.2010	“Most Important Legislation I Have Ever Helped Pass in 35 Years in Office.” March 21, 2010 – Washington, DC –Tonight, Congressman José E. Serrano proudly voted in favor of the health reform package that passed the House by a vote of 219-212. “Today I had the privilege of voting for the most important legislation that I have helped pass in my 35 years in office,” Serrano said. “This legislation represents the fulfillment of one of the reasons I have served in public office: it will make the United States a more fair and just place. “When this bill is signed into law, people around this nation will see immediate changes that improve their lives. They will see an end to the abuses that the health insurance companies have made standard over the past decades. They will see an end to the insecurity about getting sick and losing coverage. And perhaps most importantly, they will see that people who now cannot afford health insurance will be helped in getting it. “Although these are monumental changes and they are also simple and reasonable. I look forward to laying out the bill’s provisions to my constituents, who have waited for this moment for years. Bronx families often struggle to make ends meet—and often do without health care. This bill will turn that situation around. “It was very important to me that New York not be penalized for pushing ahead with its own health coverage in recent years. I was very pleased that the reconciliation fixes to the Senate bill eliminated the funding shortfalls that New York was potentially going to suffer. We must reward states and communities for doing the right thing on health care, just like we must protect people who have health coverage and ensure that those who don’t are able to afford it. “I remain committed to ensuring that we pass comprehensive immigration reform, which will bring the undocumented into the coverage that this bill provides. I am sad that some people felt that this bill was a place to exclude the undocumented. To me, we now have yet another reason why we must enact non-punitive comprehensive immigration reform. “Despite the fact that this is not a perfect bill in my opinion, the bottom line is that it is a huge step forward for American families. We are broadening and deepening the American social contract, which says that we are all in this together and we must work together for a more just nation. By sharing our healthcare costs and benefits among us all, we are going to save lives and money. This is a bold step forward and I am proud to be part of the Congress that finally finished this work.” ###
03.18.2010	March 18, 2010 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced he plans to vote in favor of health care reform. Although Serrano has long supported a single-payer system and fought for a public option, he has come to the realization that this is the last chance to extend health care to millions of people and believes that in the final equation that is the most important thing. “I am proud to announce today that I will be voting in favor of the health care reform package when it comes to the House floor,” said Congressman Serrano. “This is one of the most important votes of my career, and I am humbled to be given the opportunity to help our nation take such a historic and meaningful step toward equality. “I remain very troubled by the provisions that prevent the undocumented from buying their own insurance on the exchanges. This is an unnecessary provision. It has no place in a health care bill. I can vote for this bill with this provision in it for two reasons. First, without victory on this bill, immigration reform will not move forward. Secondly, when we do immigration reform, people who were excluded from health reform will become documented and later citizens, and therefore will no longer be excluded. “I also looked at the benefits of this bill for my Bronx constituents. I have fought long and hard to ensure that they are able to lead healthy lives—whether it is working to clean the air that they breath or fighting for parks and open space for people to exercise and relax or even pushing for healthier food options. But voting in favor of this health reform bill is the biggest step we can take to ensure that Bronx residents live healthier lives.” Serrano highlighted the following statistics provided by the House Energy and Commerce Committee on what the health reform package means for the 16th Congressional District. In Serrano’s Congressional District the bill will: • Improve coverage for 185,000 residents with health insurance. • Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 201,000 families and 7,300 small businesses to help them afford coverage. • Improve Medicare for 65,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. • Extend coverage to 86,500 uninsured residents. • Guarantee that 16,500 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. • Protect 600 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. • Allow 64,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. • Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 77 community health centers. • Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $86 million annually. “These statistics are much more than numbers,” Serrano added. “They are literally the difference in some cases between life and death, between bankruptcy and financial stability, between food and health coverage. There are few words to describe the importance of passing this bill and extending these benefits to the American people. While opponents of health care reform have spent the past year scaring the American people about the content of the bill and its consequences; they are unable to argue with the fact that this bill will cure many of the problems of the current system. They have no better solutions—and their mantra of ‘kill the bill’ is a shameful turn away from the incredible challenges that families face on a daily basis. “I will be proud to cast my vote in favor of this bill and look forward to doing the same for comprehensive immigration reform in the near future. I will cast the vote knowing that we are taking another step in the long path toward equality of health care for all citizens—regardless of their economic situation. In passing this bill we are adding strength to America’s promise and living up to its founding creed which states that we are all created equal.” ###
03.16.2010	March 16, 2010 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano watched as a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee passed the James Zadroga Act, which establishes permanent health care for 9/11 first responders and workers. There were no changes to the bill to exclude undocumented responders or to change the program to year-to-year discretionary funding. Serrano does not sit on the Energy and Commerce Committee, but joined other non-committee New York members and New York first responders in the audience at the markup session because the health care for these heroes is of top importance to them all. “Despite several attempts to exclude undocumented 9/11 workers and survivors, the Energy and Commerce subcommittee stood strong for all the heroes of that horrible event,” said Congressman Serrano. “I am proud that I pointed out that passing an anti-immigrant amendment was wrong and undermined the spirit of unity that should surround 9/11. My fellow New Yorkers and I then went to work and were able to convince a majority of the subcommittee of that position. There is nothing right about using a 9/11 bill to beat up on immigrants. “The subcommittee also stood strong to ensure that the funding for healthcare for these people will be assured and not subject to the whims of future congressional majorities. These two acts showed that on the issues related to 9/11 the country still understands that this was an attack on us all, and that creating divisions, or nickel and diming those who suffered as a result is not appropriate.” Following the subcommittee passage, the bill will now go to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for consideration. “I must applaud the hard work of my New York colleagues on this issue, with special thanks to Reps. Maloney and Nadler who have championed this cause from the start. Without their leadership, the brave people who volunteered to clean up after the catastrophe, and those who merely live near the site, would have had a more difficult time in getting the benefits they deserve.” “I look forward to this bill being passed out of the full committee and especially to the day when I am able to proudly cast a vote in favor of it on the House floor. I think that we will have a very large majority voting in favor of ensuring our 9/11 heroes get health care for their special ailments.” ###
03.12.2010	March 12, 2010 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano hailed the NYC Department of Environmental Protection’s recent decision to end its contract with the New York Organic Fertilizer Company (NYOFCo) to process sewage sludge at the company's Hunts Point location. The NYOFCo facility, which incinerated up to 2/3rds of New York City's dewatered sewage, was the source of persistent odor complaints and safety and public health concerns for more than a decade. Serrano said it was a “major victory for the people of the Bronx, for their health, and for the incredible community effort that made this happen.” “NYOFCo has polluted our community’s air for 16 years, and today is the beginning of the end,” said Serrano. “It is an end to the burning eyes, the coughs, the missed school days, even the asthma attacks, all conditions triggered by NYOFCo’s acrid odors. It is an end to closed windows on hot days and ruined picnics in the park. It is an end to our community enduring odors that no other community in the City has to bear. We applaud the City for taking this action, and at the same time we say to them ‘never let this happen in our neighborhood or any other ever again.” “The remarkable thing about the years-long fight against NYOFCo is that it became the tool that our community used to organize itself. We were fighting these battles in our own ways, but when we began to work together in the fight against this awful polluter, we organized in a way that has had a dramatically positive effect on our neighborhoods. The coalitions that formed in this campaign have gone on to fight on behalf of other pressing environmental causes – of which there are far too many in our borough – and have won many of those fights. The work that was begun by the Hunts Point Awareness Committee and was carried forward by Mothers On the Move, The Point Community Development Corporation, and Sustainable South Bronx demonstrates this organizing power. “The organizing efforts brought about by NYOFCo's longstanding odor problems have changed the face of the Bronx permanently, making it a healthier, more livable place. More importantly, perhaps, they have helped all of us recognize that our community doesn’t have to suffer indefinitely under the cruel effects of pollution and poor environmental conditions. Through this organizing work, our community has asserted its right to better conditions, and at the very least, the same right to clean air as New Yorkers in any other borough. “This is a huge milestone in the Bronx reclaiming its environmental rights. I look forward to more victories like this one, but today’s is particularly sweet. The moment when NYOFCo’s lights are finally out cannot come too soon, but right now, I just relish the thought of that day in July when the city stops sending its sludge to be incinerated at the expense of our community. The South Bronx is no longer the City’s destination for sewage sludge and it never will be again. That is the true victory for our borough.” ###
03.10.2010	March 10, 2010 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano spoke on the House floor calling for an end to the war in Afghanistan. The House was debating a resolution introduced by Congressman Dennis Kucinich on the subject. A video of his remarks can be seen here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SCKZa-0zN7Y The following is the full text of his remarks, as prepared for delivery. “It is time for us as a Congress to have this long overdue discussion on our involvement in Afghanistan. According to the War Powers Resolution, we have a role to play, and it is time that we as a Congress exercised our authority. Whether you agree or disagree with the escalation in Afghanistan – we need to debate it – we need to vote on it – and we need to make a decision. We must not give up the powers that we were given in the Constitution. “In the wake of 9/11, I did support a military response to the direct threat that Afghanistan posed to our nation. I believed that it was the correct response, in concert with our NATO allies. “Nine years later, I believe that Congress has the duty to reevaluate America’s involvement in a war that seems to have bogged down with very few signs of success. “I believe that had we not taken our focus off Afghanistan in order to invade and occupy Iraq, we would not be in the situation we are in today. “But pressing ahead without regard to our nation’s best interests, and ignoring Congress’ war powers prerogative is the wrong course. “Let us be clear, we cannot tolerate the presence of terrorists seeking to harm our nation anywhere in the world. But we must ask ourselves if long term occupations are the correct answer to this threat. “We must also be clear in our analysis of our situation in Afghanistan. We have a partnership with an Afghan government that seems increasingly unstable, corrupt and almost completely incapable of maintaining control over vast stretches of the country. “We seem unable to eradicate the Taliban enemy—they scatter before our troops into lawless regions, and then return once our troops leave. Without an effective Afghan government, it is hard to see this pattern changing, as the local population cannot count on the Taliban ever being gone for good. “This is a costly war without an end in sight. It is costly to our brave soldiers and to their families. It is costly because resources desperately needed to feed the hungry, to find a way forward on health reform, and to fix our failing schools are being re-directed to an effort whose success is questionable. “Here at home we have had precious little debate over this war. We have seen our troop numbers rise to above those in Iraq, and yet we have no real benchmarks or goals after which we can leave. “We continue to spend massive amounts of money to maintain the occupation of both Afghanistan and Iraq. And worst of all, we ask our brave men and women in uniform to continue to sacrifice their lives and bodies to this war without our nation sacrificing similarly. The least we can do to honor their service is to debate and vote properly on this war, and ensure that our nation is not sending them into battle without careful thought and reflection. “Let me conclude by saying that I am from New York City, the place where 9/11 took place, and so I know firsthand the devastation that this caused to my own community. Although, I supported the effort to confront Bin Laden and the perpetrators of that act of terrorism in Afghanistan, I cannot now – nine years later – agree to an effort which has moved in a different direction with different goals. “I commend Mr. Kucinich for raising this painful subject, and allowing our chamber to engage in an honest and open debate about the consequences of this ongoing occupation. Our troops and our nation deserve no less consideration.” ###
02.26.2010	February 26, 2010 –Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he had received a 100% rating from the League of Conservation Voters for his voting record in 2009. “I am pleased that my voting record over the past year closely follows my convictions on the environment,” said Serrano. “In the past, I often heard that an elected official from the Bronx should worry about things other than the environment, like crime and poverty. I disagreed. I believe that we should focus on every issue that affects people’s quality of life, from crime to poverty to the environment and beyond. When we give up on the environment for people in our community, we are agreeing with the notion that we deserve less. That’s not true. “The restoration of the Bronx River has been a huge environmental justice victory for the Bronx. More than a decade ago I began to fund an effort to clean up and bring back the Bronx River, which at the time was a mess. I believed then as I do now that the people of the Bronx deserved better than they were getting. Fast forward to today and we have a river that is beautiful and clean, and home to wildlife. Our community can use and enjoy its parks and green spaces. It is a treasure. But none of this would have happened if we had agreed that people in the Bronx had to focus on other things and shouldn’t dream about a clean river with green spaces. “We continue to work on the Bronx River, as we also continue to fight against air pollution across our borough. We know that our high asthma rates are related to dirty air. We are working diligently on this problem, by helping to spur investments in alternative fuels, reducing truck idling, and increasing green transportation options. We know that our air in the Bronx just as valuable as the air anywhere else in the nation. With the solutions we are pursuing, we move ever closer to a day when our air is clean and our asthma rates are lower. That day cannot come too quickly.” ###
02.09.2010	February 9, 2010 –The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement today on the passing of Pennsylvania Congressman John P. Murtha: “Yesterday we lost a great patriot and a great legislator,” said Serrano. “Jack Murtha was one of the legends of the House when I arrived here in 1990, and he remained so until his untimely passing yesterday. He understood how our chamber worked and he made sure that it worked on behalf of the American people. “Much attention has been paid to how he ‘steered’ money to his district. This is only a small portion of what he did. In reality he steered money to projects all over the country, helping communities with jobs and infrastructure. For example, I spent a great deal of time working with him early in my career to get the Navy out of Vieques and then later to help begin the cleanup of the island. Jack had no direct ties to Vieques or Puerto Rico, but like he did with so many other projects, he saw the value in helping people that needed a strong friend in Washington. “Our chamber will not be the same without Chairman Murtha—but we have a strong example to live up to as we look at his life of service to his nation and his district. Our prayers go out to his family, as we thank them for sharing this great man with our nation.” ###
01.27.2010	January 27, 2010 – Washington, DC – Reacting to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address, Congressman José E. Serrano said he felt certain that the President understood the current economic situation, and had laid out a clear path for action. Serrano also applauded President Obama’s call for finalizing health care reform, saying the bill was “long overdue” and a reform “Democrats need to lead on, not shrink from.” “President Obama had just the right message tonight, one of hope, resolve, and clarity of purpose,” said Serrano. “Our nation needed just such an address as we collectively continue to face a very difficult economic situation. I believe that the American people saw that the President, and Democrats in Congress, understand their problems, have worked on them and will continue to work to end this recession. “I think the President made clear to us all that he is not backing away from health care reform. None of us Democrats should. Though this bill has become unpopular through a year-long campaign of scare-tactics, polls show that a majority of Americans still believe in health care reform and are in favor of the provisions included in the bill. Republicans and entrenched anti-reform advocates have repeatedly distorted the facts about what the bill would or wouldn’t do, and have sought to scare citizens at every turn. It has been a shameful display of small-minded, interest-driven politics. I was glad that the President called on us to rise above those tactics and the fear of change. “It has been a hard year, filled with difficult choices, but I think that the accomplishments of the past year should give the American people confidence that we are working on their behalf. We cannot allow special interests with vast wealth to place their priorities ahead of the American people, especially now, as the American people are seeing their jobs disappear, and with it their chance at the American dream.“Like my Democratic colleagues, I felt Obama’s speech was the right message for a dispirited nation. He showed that he understands our issues, and is committed to leading us to a better future. His message of hope and perseverance was exactly right, and I look forward to working to achieve the goals we all agree on. ###
01.26.2010	January 26, 2010 – Washington, DC – After hearing news that the Bronx was one of the communities with the highest hunger rates in the nation, Congressman José E. Serrano today called for an immediate effort to increase access to food and food assistance. “We feared that this recession could have an effect on our hunger rates in the Bronx, which were already too high, and now we have learned that our fears have become reality. We must take immediate steps to combat this problem, in all ways that we can. “This morning I wrote to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, whose department oversees food assistance programs, to ask him for his immediate assistance in expanding access to food programs in the Bronx—as well as inviting him to come see successful yet struggling Bronx food assistance non-profits. “I also wrote to Mayor Bloomberg today to seek his partnership in a new effort to end hunger in the Bronx. I believe that working with these two leaders and those already working diligently on this issue in the Bronx, we can put an end to these unacceptably high hunger rates. “We know that many people are unable to access the benefits for which they are eligible, and we must do more to connect people to the available resources. And where the resources are lacking, we must urgently bridge the gap. This is a problem we must attack with great urgency. People without proper access to food cannot wait. “In the richest city in the richest nation on Earth, food insecurity is simply unacceptable and immediate action must be taken to help those in need.” The full results of the food security survey are available here: http://frac.org/Press_Release/food_hardship_report_jan2010.htm Serrano’s letter to Secretary Vilsack is available here: http://serrano.house.gov/[[MEDIAPATH]]PDFs/vilsack_hunger.pdf Serrano’s letter to Mayor Bloomberg is available here: http://serrano.house.gov/[[MEDIAPATH]]PDFs/bloomberg_hunger.pdf
01.19.2010	January 19, 2010 – Washington, DC – Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-Bronx) and Joe Crowley (D-Bronx, Queens) acknowledged as an important first step the agreement on PCB contamination in schools between the Environmental Protection Agency and NYC Department of Education. The agreement requires New York City to proceed with a pilot study testing PCB contamination in five schools and produce a plan for remediation that can be applied citywide.Last year, Serrano and Crowley inserted language into a FY2010 appropriations bill that instructed the EPA to study and issue recommendations for cleaning up PCB contamination in schools. A number of schools in New York City including several in the Bronx were recently found to have PCB laden window caulk. Polychlorinated biphenyls or PCBs – an industrial chemical now no longer in use – have been found to have very harmful health effects, especially among children. “Today’s announcement shows that the light Joe Crowley and I shed on this problem has moved the federal government to take action,” said Congressman Serrano. “We asked the EPA to take steps to study and help develop a solution to this pressing issue. They have taken the first step today, and we look forward to quick progress towards a solution that ensures our children’s safety from PCBs.” “With this step forward, EPA and New York City are taking action to eliminate dangerous PCBs from classrooms across New York City, including several schools in the Bronx,” said Congressman Crowley. “Coordinated efforts like this are needed to comprehensively clean up PCB contamination in New York and across the nation. José Serrano and I will continue our work to raise awareness of the dangers of PCBs and ensure that further remediation efforts move swiftly forward.” ###
01.15.2010	January 15, 2010 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today issued the following statement commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s life. “As we watch the horrors unfolding in Haiti, and do our best to help, we are reminded of the lessons of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s life, where solidarity and mutual assistance knew no boundaries, saw no racial or class distinctions, and called upon us to act with conscience. I am certain that if he were alive today, he would be at the forefront of the actions to help the Haitian people in this moment of great suffering. “Dr. King would also be so proud of our nation for the steps we have taken recently to build toward a common future of racial equality. This year alone we have seen the inauguration of President Barack Obama and the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor—events that prove that, little-by-little, the dream Dr. King described on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial is coming true. “Of course there is still work to do. The cold reality of the present economic situation shows that people of color in this nation are far less prosperous than their white counterparts, and far less able to weather economic distress. They are disproportionately affected by foreclosure and unemployment. This is unacceptable, and shows that despite our progress we have a long way to go. “In the Bronx, we are still fighting the battles that Dr. King engaged in so many years ago. But the story of his life helps us each day to continue to press non-violently for equality, respect and brotherhood. And each day we move closer to that goal.” ###
01.13.2010	January 13, 2010 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the devastating earthquake in Haiti yesterday:“Like people around the world, when I watched the images of suffering in Haiti after the devastating earthquake, I felt a deep sense of dread for the Haitian people in coming days and weeks. A country with such impoverishment and lack of resources cannot be expected to respond in a meaningful way to save lives. The world community, led by the United States, must step into that vacuum and provide immediate assistance and relief. “My heart goes out to the long-suffering Haitian people as they deal with this new crisis. Like my colleagues in the Congress, I stand ready to help in any way that I can. I also urge the executive branch to move with extraordinary speed to provide the crucial resources and expertise needed to stave off a larger humanitarian disaster.” ###
01.08.2010	January 8, 2010 – Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, applauded today’s announcement by the Treasury Department that it had approved Puerto Rico’s plan to participate in the higher education tax credits program funded under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The credits will be worth up to $129 million for Puerto Rico. “I took a call from Treasury Secretary Geithner this afternoon where he let me know that Puerto Rico’s plan for higher education tax credits had been approved,” said Chairman Serrano, whose Appropriations Subcommittee oversees the Treasury Department budget. “This move will help put Puerto Rican students on equal footing with those in the rest of the nation, and will also support efforts to stimulate the Puerto Rican economy. “I have spent much of my time in Congress and as Chair of this subcommittee working to ensure that Puerto Rico and the territories receive equal treatment as the rest of the states. Today’s announcement is proof that that effort is paying off as officials in the Administration like Secretary Geithner are taking steps to ensure equality consistent with Congress’ intent. “I commend Secretary Geithner for his recognition that Puerto Rico’s economy is deeply connected to the economy on the mainland. Like me, he can see clearly that efforts to support Puerto Rico, its people and its economy benefit us all. I told him in the conversation that this was the right move and that I look forward to working with him on similar initiatives in the future.” ###
01.04.2010	January 4, 2010 – Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, applauded today’s announcement by the IRS that it planned to begin a comprehensive program to license, test, and oversee the thousands of tax return preparers who help taxpayers file their returns each year. “I spoke with IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman today and he filled me in on the details of the new plan—and I must say that I am very supportive,” said Chairman Serrano, whose Appropriations Subcommittee oversees the IRS’ budget. “Each year, all across the nation the majority of taxpayers turn to tax return preparers for help in filing their returns. Under this new plan, the tax return preparers would have to pass a minimum of checks to ensure their trustworthiness and their ability to accurately prepare the return. This will give taxpayers using their services the confidence to know that they can trust these service providers that deal with some of the most important and confidential financial data.” “While most tax return preparers are ethical and competent, too often we have found out about scam artists who bilk taxpayers out of their money. We have also heard of the incompetent preparers who do not make sure that people are able to get all of the benefits for which they are eligible. Most of the time these two circumstances strike in low-income and minority neighborhoods, where the need for the tax benefits is greatest. Commissioner Shulman has struck a blow for tax fairness and against financial fraud with the steps that he announced today. It will make sure that legitimate tax writeoffs and benefits do not only flow to those who can afford an accountant but also to those that walk into a neighborhood tax clinic in a challenged neighborhood. “I have spent much of my time as Chair of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee trying to ensure that the agencies whose budgets I oversee are taking actions to make sure the government serves the average citizen. I can think of no agency taking a bigger step than the IRS did with this action that works to put the government on the side of the people. I applaud Commissioner Shulman and his team and look forward to the increased oversight during this coming tax season.” The following link contains further details about the new plan: http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=217781,00.html ###
12.17.2009	December 17, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano announced he had introduced H.R. 4399, The American Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Act or “e-Drive” bill late yesterday. The bill’s original co-sponsors include Representatives Lee Terry (R-NE), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Dan Maffei (D-NY), Steve Israel (D-NY), and Charles Gonzalez (D-TX). If passed, the bill would begin a process of testing and deploying 20,000 electric-drive delivery vehicles for the U.S. Postal Service, operator of the nation’s largest civilian fleet. Besides the environmental benefits and vast fuel savings the program would achieve, the bill’s passage would also position the Postal Service fleet as a key energy storage asset for the nation’s power grid. Through ‘vehicle-to-grid’ technologies, new and converted electric postal vehicles would serve as power storage devices for the grid, helping ease peak loads and store energy from intermittent or fluctuating sources, like wind power systems. “The e-Drive bill is a bold step to help the USPS achieve sustainability from an operational standpoint. It also will help them lead the greening of our nation’s delivery fleets and jump-start the electric vehicle industry in the U.S.,” said Congressman Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government subcommittee, which oversees the federal payment to the USPS. “Through a rigorous testing and competitive grant process, administered by the Department of Energy, manufacturers, large and small, will compete to bring their leading-edge technologies to the market. The industry will grow stronger as a result—creating knowledge, deploying new technologies, and producing quality American jobs. Our nation must become a leader in green technologies and leveraging the enormous assets of the USPS provides us with a direct route toward that goal.” e-Drive will allocate up to $2 billion for a two-phase, multi-track testing and manufacturing program, administered by DOE, for the design, deployment, and assessment of Electric Drive Vehicles (EVs), and related power grid infrastructure, moving EVs from design to manufacturing to daily use. “This legislation will provide a much-needed boost to the development and use of electric drive vehicles on a nation-wide scale,” said Congressman Lee Terry (R-NE). “It will stimulate private sector investment in electric drive vehicles, powertrains and new battery technologies. It also addresses Smart Grid integration through new Vehicle-to Grid technologies. I look forward to working with my colleague, Mr. Serrano, on this forward-thinking approach to less dependence on fossil fuels and reducing emissions from mobile sources.” “By supplying new, more efficient electric vehicles built right here in the United States we reduce fuel costs for the struggling Postal Service and jolt American clean-energy manufacturing, creating jobs here at home,” said Congressman Russ Carnahan (D-MO-3). “This bill will spur American electric vehicle production, creating manufacturing jobs and moving us toward a green economy. Central New York is a leader in green technology innovation, and I am confident our region will contribute to the E-Drive program’s success,” said Congressman Dan Maffei, (D-NY) “The United States Postal Service maintains the largest civilian vehicle fleet in the world with about 221,000 vehicles in service,” said Congressman Steve Israel (D-NY). “By converting to a greener electric fleet we will be using the purchasing power of the federal government to spur innovation, create new green jobs and reduce energy costs for the postal service. I’ve worked with Congressman Serrano on demonstration projects using these vehicles in New York and I am proud to continue to work with him on the e-drive bill.” “As world leaders convene at the UN Climate Conference to find ways to reduce global carbon emissions, we are doing our part here with the introduction of ‘e-Drive’,” said Congressman Charles A. Gonzalez, co-sponsor of this bill. “Homes in America are visited by the USPS six days a week, and it only makes sense that we find a green alternative to one of the largest delivery fleets. With e-Drive we can lessen our dependence on fossil fuels, reduce our carbon emissions, and create more green jobs as we encourage the car manufacturers to develop more non-polluting vehicles.” “This legislation uses the unique characteristics of the Postal Service’s existing transportation network to rapidly increase the market for electric vehicles in the United States,” said Ruth Y. Goldway, Chairman, U.S. Postal Regulatory Commission. “It provides well-deserved support for the Postal Service and a reasoned plan for the simultaneous development of the electric grid and non-polluting automobiles. I congratulate Congressman Serrano on his foresight and leadership putting forward this program to create green jobs, an improved electric grid and – most importantly – a revitalized mail delivery system.” “Done right, electric vehicles provide a huge opportunity to add stability and versatility to the grid and because of their crucial storage capacity they can stimulate private investment in renewable electricity,” said Jon Wellinghoff, chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. William Burrus, president of the American Postal Workers Union, praised the bill, saying “It will be good for the Postal Service, good for the environment and good for the economy.” “PJM is very supportive of congressional direction that helps to advance vehicle-to-grid technology,” said Terry Boston, President and CEO of PJM, the largest Independent System Operator in the country. ISOs are the non-profit entities that operate the nation’s electrical grid. “Vehicle-to-grid is a credible technology that has been successfully demonstrated within the PJM territory for more than two years. Electric vehicle integration is both a challenge and an opportunity that PJM is prepared to facilitate in the near-term. A highly visible fleet of United States Postal Service vehicles would not only showcase clean and economic transportation, but with smart charging would provide a positive contribution to the electric grid.” Several postal EVs have been deployed in Serrano’s district since the late 1990’s, which underscored for him the viability and importance of the technology. Serrano recognized, however, that the USPS lacked the resources to make a large-scale investment in fleet-wide purchases. Many of these technologies are now deployable as a result of significant DOE and private sector investments, but the electric vehicle industry is now at a point where it needs a major customer to provide demand for large-scale deployment. “Our nation is ready to support an electric vehicle fleet,” added Serrano. “Our power grid would benefit, our industrial base would benefit, our environment would benefit, and under this approach, the USPS, as well as its employees and customers, would benefit. It’s a win-win situation all around. I look forward to passing this bill with my allies in Congress, and the support of the public and private sectors.” ###
12.16.2009	December 15, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the language and spirit of his signature immigration bill, the Child Citizen Protection Act, had been included in the comprehensive immigration reform package unveiled by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus yesterday. Serrano’s bill and the language in the reform package frees the hands of immigration judges to take into account the welfare of American citizen children in the deportation proceedings of their parents. “I am deeply gratified that we were able to include the provisions of the Child Citizen Protection Act in our comprehensive immigration reform package,” said Serrano. “More than any single issue, family unity must be at the heart of any reform efforts. We cannot sanction splitting families up by blindly deporting the parents of children born in this nation. “The language included allows immigration judges to use their discretion when a child citizen is involved in deportation proceedings—and to use their judgment to ensure an outcome that does not disadvantage the child or children. We do not mandate any outcome, but rather let judges weigh the facts and make a decision. Currently they have no ability to do this and must deport regardless of the impact on a family. “We would not allow them to use this discretion when people are being deported for serious criminal behavior. This is not a sure-fire way to stay in this country, but rather a step that would allow judges to weigh the facts and act in the best interests of our youngest citizens. Surely we can all agree that citizen children should not be disproportionately punished for their mistakes their parents made. “We have included this measure because it is the compassionate, fair, and American thing to do. Our children deserve no less.” The language is in section 315 and 316 and reads: SEC. 315. DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY. 22 Section 240(c)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality 23 Act (8 U.S.C. 1229a(c)(4)) is amended by adding at the 24 end the following: VerDate Nov 24 2008 17:56 Dec 15, 2009 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00328 Fmt 6652 Sfmt 6201 C:\TEMP\ORTIZ_017.XML HOLCPC 1 ‘‘(D) DISCRETION OF JUDGE IN CASE OF 2 CITIZEN CHILD.—In the case of an alien subject 3 to removal, deportation, or exclusion who is the 4 parent of a child who is a citizen of the United 5 States, the immigration judge may exercise dis- 6cretion to decline to order the alien removed, 7 deported, or excluded from the United States if 8 the judge determines that such removal, depor- 9tation, or exclusion is clearly against the best 10 interests of the child, except that this subpara 11graph shall not apply to any alien who the 12 judge determines— 13 ‘‘(i) is described in section 212(a)(3) 14 or 237(a)(4); or 15 ‘‘(ii) has engaged in conduct described 16 in paragraph (8) or (9) of section 103 of 17 the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 18 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).’’. ###
12.16.2009	December 16, 2009 – Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano praised the efforts of the Kingsbridge Armory Redevelopment Alliance (KARA) and applauded Monday’s historic City Council vote on the Armory project. By a 45-1 margin, the Council rejected a proposal to redevelop the Kingsbridge Armory that lacked provisions for a living wage agreement. Serrano has long supported the redevelopment of the Armory, but has said from the outset that the entire package must benefit the community both during the process and into the future. “From the start I have always said that any redevelopment centered on the Kingsbridge Armory must include plans to provide solid jobs with a living wage,” said Serrano. “When I heard that the plan to be voted on was not going to include a living wage provision, I made my views clear—neither I nor my constituents would support such a bad deal for our borough. The City Council heard the message loud and clear, and relayed that message to big developers in our City. “What KARA has taught all of us is a basic lesson of urban policy: Using public subsidies to underwrite minimum wage jobs only keeps people in poverty and ends up costing cities even more over the long-term. This is a lesson we should all take to heart. We cannot and should not support unsustainable development.” "The mayor is telling the poorest urban community in the U.S. that we do not deserve to make a living wage. There's something wrong with that picture,” said Desiree Pilgrim-Hunter of KARA. “Congressman Serrano has been a consistent supporter of our fight for living wage and for a community benefits agreement that would make the Armory redevelopment project mutually beneficial to both the developer and the community." “The vote sent a strong, clear message that local communities can and should have a say in what kind of development happens in our neighborhoods,” said Laura Vazquez, Executive Director of Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition. “Congressman Serrano has been an outstanding advocate for that position since this long process began three years ago” “We applaud all our elected officials for taking a stand against powerful developers who want to take public subsidies without giving anything in return,” said Ava Farkas, lead organizer for KARA. “Congressman Serrano stood with us from the very beginning of this struggle and continued to advise us throughout the long process. We are grateful for his ongoing support. The city council vote was a victory for community organizing, democracy and for the dignity of the people of the Bronx.” ###
12.14.2009	December 14, 2009 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he had secured $1.675 million in federal funds for 11 organizations working with at-risk youth in The Bronx. Serrano secured the funding in the FY2010 Consolidated Appropriations Bill, which passed the House last week and the Senate over the weekend. “The funding I secured for these great organizations for next year will help them to continue their vital work helping at-risk youths in the Bronx to move towards more positive lives,” said Serrano. “Over the years, we have learned that supporting these programs is one of the most effective social policy tools that we have. These organizations provide a variety of services, including academic support, educational programming, and mentor/mentee relationships for some of our most vulnerable young people. “Turning troubled youth away from destructive lives has so many benefits for the community. All of these efforts are truly saving lives, and we must continue to support these important programs. I applaud these organizations for their work, and pledge to remain on their side into the future.” The following is a chart of the recipients and amounts: Abraham House $100,000 Programs for At-Risk Youth Bronx Council on the Arts Inc. $150,000 BCA Bronx WritersCorps: Youth Development/Delinquency Prevention El Museo del Barrio $100,000 El Museo del Barrio's Bronx Educational Programs for At-Risk Youth Mary Mitchell Family and Youth Center, Inc. $250,000 Mary Mitchell Family and Youth Center: Ongoing Programs for At-Risk Youth, Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition $100,000 Sistas and Brothas (S&B) United Youth Leadership Program Rocking the Boat, Inc. $250,000 RTB Education programs for At-Risk Youth Sports Foundation, Inc. $125,000 SFI Anti-Drug Programs for At-Risk Youth The Bronx Community Pride Center $200,000 BCPC: Youth Academic Programming, The Point Community Development Corporation $150,000 The Point Community Development Corporation: Youth Development Program, Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice $250,000 Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice: Education Programs for At-Risk Youth ###
12.14.2009	December 14, 2009 – Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano mourned the loss of HIV/AIDS and human rights activist, Dennis deLeon, who passed away last night. DeLeon was one of the most prominent Latino leaders in the City over the past 30 years. Among multiple other roles, he was appointed Chair of the New York City Commission on Human Rights by Mayor David Dinkins and later served as President of the Latino Commission on AIDS. “When I heard the news about Dennis, my heart dropped,” said Serrano. “With his passing we have lost a leading light in the Latino community, and a true leader in the fight against discrimination and HIV/AIDS. He worked so hard on behalf of the underserved, the forgotten, and the disenfranchised of our city over the years. His voice, his fierce advocacy, and his courage in the face of injustice will always be remembered. “Though he is gone, it is safe to say that his legacy will live on across our city and in many ways across the nation. The pioneering work that he did in New York City on human rights and HIV/AIDS prevention in many ways became the models for the rest of the nation. “His legacy was also of empowerment. He showed us that the best way to fight discrimination was to empower those who suffered under its cruel weight. He believed in the communities that he lifted up, and through lifting them up, he allowed their members to lead fuller and richer lives, with less discrimination and hate. “Dennis’ work to end the scourge of AIDS was no less important. He sincerely believed that through sound public policy and effective activism we could bring the transmission rates down in the most affected populations. He was right, but the fight is not over. We must continue his work and end this horrible disease in his memory, and that of all those who have died because of it. “Dennis will not be forgotten and our efforts to continue his work will go on.” ###
12.10.2009	December 10, 2009 – Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano, who had fought for years to lift the ban on the use of federal funds for syringe exchange, applauded today as that ban was lifted in the House passed FY2010 Consolidated Appropriations Bill. Serrano is the author H.R. 179, the Community AIDS and Hepatitis Prevention Act, which would have accomplished this very same objective, and had gathered 117 co-sponsors. “I congratulate my colleagues on ending a senseless funding ban that was hindering our efforts to stamp out HIV/AIDS and other transmissible diseases,” said Serrano. “The science has been clear for years—syringe exchange works. There were so many states and localities already running syringe exchange programs. It truly was the national politicians that were behind the curve. Today the national politicians have caught up with local government and scientific research, and lives will be saved as a result. “When I first lifted a syringe exchange ban that had been imposed on Washington, DC, people watched to see what the reaction would be. The lifting of the ban on use of local funds rejuvenated efforts to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in our nation’s capital, and renewed a sense of commitment among those that had been working to overturn the federal ban for so many years. In Congress, we introduced the Community AIDS and Hepatitis Prevention Act in the 110th Congress, and reintroduced it in the 111th. As member after member signed on, momentum was on our side. Today we see the end result of that process, and I couldn’t be prouder of the step that we have taken.” “I would like to applaud Chairman Obey for his work in his subcommittee to remove the funding ban, and also thank the multiple groups around the nation that have worked so long and hard to make this possible. Today we can celebrate a new tool in the war against HIV/AIDS—and we know that the tool will have the immediate effect of preventing new infections.” ###
12.09.2009	December 9, 2009 – Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, issued the following statement today following the conference agreement on a consolidated appropriations bill late last night. “The Financial Services and General Government section of the consolidated bill reflects our desire to protect consumers, shore up the regulatory system, ensure tax fairness and unburden the residents of the District of Columbia,” said Serrano. “We worked diligently to reach compromises on a variety of issues, and on the whole, I believe this section will reflect the wishes of the House and Senate, and work well with President Obama’s goals. We were careful to be good stewards of taxpayer funds and I am happy to report that we were able to accomplish many of our goals and still come in $40 million below the President’s request.” “We continued our commitment to consumer protection by increasing the funding for the Consumer Product Safety Commission some $13 million above last year. They have a very important mandate, and we want to be sure they have the funds necessary to carry it out. “We funded the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) at $1.111 billion, which is $151 million above 2009 and $85 million above the President’s request. In the wake of the financial crisis this year, we felt it was of utmost importance to strengthen the SEC and empower them to enforce the rules of the market and stop fraud. “We also went out of our way to ensure that both Treasury and the IRS have the resources they need to protect our economy and ensure tax fairness. I was very supportive of the Administration’s efforts to combat tax evasion on the part of the wealthy. I ensured that the Small Business Administration received an appropriation that is $212 million above the 2009 level—which means they can carry out their mission of supporting small businesses; the backbone of our economy. “We spent a considerable amount of time ensuring that the District of Columbia was treated with respect and dignity in this bill. We removed social riders that prevented them from carrying out a referendum on medical marijuana, creating a same-sex marriage registry, using local funds for abortion services, and carrying out an effective syringe exchange program. I sincerely believe that Congress has no right to tell people in the District how to run their affairs. We agreed to continue to fund students currently in the school voucher program. I continue to say that if DC local officials would like to use their local authority to expand the program, they should do so. There is nothing stopping them. At the same time, we expanded our support of DC public schools, helping local officials with their overhaul of the system.” “The Financial Services section of the consolidated bill reflects our deep belief that we must act aggressively to ensure fairness to American citizens. Whether that is protecting them as consumers, pursuing tax cheats, enabling regulators to enforce the rules, or undoing burdens on DC citizens; we have a responsibility to make sure our federal government is on their side, and support them. I believe we have done just that.” The following is further summary of the provisions of the bill: http://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/FY10_FS_Conference_Summary.pdf The bill text and accompanying report can be found here: http://rules.house.gov/bills_details.aspx?NewsID=4520 ###
12.08.2009	December 8, 2009 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano ushered a resolution recognizing the Grand Concourse in the Bronx on its centennial anniversary to unanimous passage in the U.S. House of Representatives. During debate on the resolution, Serrano highlighted the history and importance of the Grand Concourse. Watch the video of his remarks here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zgns4E95rJQ “The Grand Concourse is the beating heart of the Bronx and at 100 years old, it is as important to us as ever,” said Serrano after the debate. “I thank my colleagues for passing this resolution, which recognizes the Grand Concourse as one of the great boulevards in New York City and indeed the nation. In so many ways, we are recognizing the heart of a cultural force in American life—The Bronx. So many people and ideas have come through the Bronx, and the Grand Concourse is the chief street that all of them shared. It has such a great history and such a positive future to come as the Bronx continues to thrive.” The following is the full text of the resolution as passed: H.RES.907 Recognizing the Grand Concourse on its 100th anniversary as the preeminent thoroughfare in the borough of the Bronx and an important nexus of commerce and culture for the City of New... (Introduced in House) HRES 907 IH 111th CONGRESS 1st Session H. RES. 907 Recognizing the Grand Concourse on its 100th anniversary as the preeminent thoroughfare in the borough of the Bronx and an important nexus of commerce and culture for the City of New York. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES November 16, 2009 Mr. SERRANO submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure ________________________________________ RESOLUTION Recognizing the Grand Concourse on its 100th anniversary as the preeminent thoroughfare in the borough of the Bronx and an important nexus of commerce and culture for the City of New York. Whereas the Grand Concourse was designed by engineer Louis Aloys Risse beginning in 1894; Whereas the Grand Concourse opened in 1909; Whereas the 4-mile thoroughfare stretches from 138th Street to Van Cortland Park in the Bronx; Whereas Edgar Allan Poe wrote the poem 'Annabel Lee' in his Bronx cottage which now stands on the Grand Concourse; Whereas Babe Ruth, Stanley Kubrick, Milton Berle, Penny and Garry Marshall, and E.L. Doctorow all at one time made their homes on the Grand Concourse; Whereas the Grand Concourse hosts such New York landmarks as Yankee Stadium, Loews Paradise Theater, and the Concourse Plaza Hotel; Whereas the Grand Concourse has the largest collection of Art Deco and Art Moderne buildings in the United States; Whereas the Grand Concourse is registered as a National Historic Place; Whereas the Grand Concourse has been designated as a special preservation district by the City of New York; Whereas the Grand Concourse is known as the Champs Elysees of the Bronx; Whereas the Grand Concourse is the central north-south artery of the Bronx; Whereas the Concourse serves the 4, 5, B, and D subway lines as well as several bus routes and is a major transportation route in New York City; Whereas the $18,000,000 that was provided for the Grand Concourse in January 2006 led to improving the streetscape and creating better access for pedestrians; Whereas the Bronx Museum of the Arts is celebrating the roadway in its exhibition, 'Intersections: The Grand Concourse at 100'; Whereas the Grand Concourse has seen the arrival of countless new immigrants as well as people arriving from other parts of the country, including Puerto Rico, and has been their launching point for the valuable contributions that they have made; Whereas the people of the Bronx enjoy spending time on the beautiful parks adjoining the Grand Concourse, making it a center for socializing and recreating; Whereas the Grand Concourse has fulfilled and exceeded its planners' intentions over a series of generations, occupying a central place in the hearts and minds of Bronxites past and present; and Whereas the Grand Concourse since its inception has been an integral part of the cultural life and economic development of the Bronx: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) recognizes the Grand Concourse on its 100th anniversary as the preeminent thoroughfare in the borough of the Bronx and an important nexus of commerce and culture for the City of New York; and (2) directs the Clerk of the House of Representatives to transmit a copy of this resolution to The Bronx County Historical Society located at 3309 Bainbridge Avenue, The Bronx, NY 10467, for appropriate display. ###
12.02.2009	December 2, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement of a surge in Afghanistan: “I am with the President on many issues, but on Afghanistan, we don’t see eye-to-eye. I appreciated the difficulty of this decision for him, and also applaud the thoughtful and thorough nature in which he conducted the review. Unfortunately, I do not agree with the conclusion for a number of reasons. “First, I do not believe that we have an adequate partner in the Karzai Administration or the Afghan government. Giving more time, money and support to the very leaders that have been unsuccessful for the past 8 years seems unlikely to ensure changes in their behavior, especially the corruption. I also fail to see the Karzai Administration exerting even the most minimal type of control outside of Kabul that would be necessary to build on for success. “Second, I do not agree that success in pacifying Afghanistan can be equated to success against Al Qaeda. I understand that a resurgent Taliban could provide a safe haven to Al Qaeda, but during the past eight years, we have not eliminated the terrorists but merely pushed them across the border and to other regions. We need to focus on eliminating the terrorists as a firm goal for our counter-terrorism strategies—not solely on pacifying one unstable nation. “Finally, I think that with the increased focus on Afghanistan, we risk losing focus on the worldwide nature of the threat. Our focus on occupying and ‘winning’ in Iraq prevented us from focusing on Afghanistan over the past 8 years, and I worry that preoccupation with ‘winning’ in Afghanistan now will divert our attention from other terrorism hotspots that could become threats. “When this issue comes to a vote in Congress, I will vote against it. Besides my concerns about strategy, I believe that it is a cost that our nation can ill-afford, both in lives and dollars. I support the troops, but I believe the most responsible way to do so is by opposing further occupation of Afghanistan.” ###
12.01.2009	December 1, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement today in recognition of World AIDS Day: “Today we recognize World AIDS Day and take time to reflect on its meaning,” said Serrano. “To many the day is a day of memory, a day to reflect on the losses we have endured over the years and at the same time, celebrate the lives of our friends and loved ones who survive. It is also a day when we recommit ourselves to the fight against this horrible disease. We resolve to work harder to find a cure and in the meantime to reduce transmission rates. We commit ourselves to trying to overcome stigma and fear and to make sure that people that are HIV-positive know it and are given affordable treatment. “New York remains a focal point of the HIV/AIDS crisis in the United States. More than 100,000 New Yorkers are infected with HIV. Many of them are low-income and could be homeless if not for housing programs I've worked to fully fund. New York City's overall HIV rate is three times the national average, and 21% of New Yorkers living with HIV/AIDS contracted the virus directly through injection drug use. We must bring these infection rates down. “On a more positive note, recently Congress reauthorized the Ryan White Act, which ensures that HIV/AIDS positive low-income Americans receive treatment. This was a huge step forward and very necessary. I applaud my colleagues for moving this important legislation forward. It is a life and death issue, and I believe it was treated as such. “We are also working right now to ensure that there is a new tool in the fight against transmission: federally-funded syringe exchange programs. Over the past several years, I have worked to lift the senseless ban on federal funding for these programs. We have sought to spread the knowledge that syringe exchange programs have been scientifically proven to do more than perhaps anything else to prevent transmission among injection-drug users. The programs work. We are on the verge of lifting the federal funding ban, and I would be honored to say that a part of my legacy as an elected official was to have helped lift these destructive and untenable restrictions. “Our community—like the nation and indeed the world--is hit hard by the scourge of HIV/AIDS and there is so much to do to turn it around. We must continue to battle the epidemic. So today, on World AIDS Day, we recommit ourselves to the fight against HIV/AIDS, in memory of those we have lost, and in honor of those who survive.” ###
11.17.2009	November 17, 2009 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the brutal murder of a gay Puerto Rican teenager, Jorge Steven López Mercado: “I strongly condemn this horrible crime and urge that it be treated as the heinous hate-crime that it is,” said Serrano. “Congress passed the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act to address just this type of offense. I urge the federal government to provide Puerto Rican authorities with assistance in this investigation. The parties responsible must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of either Puerto Rican law or our new federal hate crimes laws. “I am particularly troubled by the alleged comments of one of the police investigators of this terrible act. Our justice system and our law enforcement officials should never allow their personal biases to interfere in their work investigating and enforcing the law. “Gay teens in Puerto Rico, like gay teens anywhere, must be able to live in peace and feel safe in their communities. As a tolerant society, we must be vigilant about the rights of all and always ensure that the law is on the side of the vulnerable and the victimized.” ###
11.16.2009	November 16, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that several local groups had been awarded matching grants by the IRS to fund their Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program. Serrano helped to start and fund this vital grant program when he became chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the IRS’s budget. Included in the latest funding list are the following Bronx organizations: Food Bank for NYC/Food for Survival, Inc. in the Bronx ($115,000); The NYC Financial Network Action Consortium ($90,000) and SEEDCO ($50,000). “The VITA grants initiative is so important in helping people in communities like the Bronx to file their taxes properly,” said Serrano. “The partner organizations do a great job recruiting and training volunteers to help low-income taxpayers to ensure that they are getting all the tax benefits they deserve. With their non-profit status, and IRS oversight, these organizations provide sound advice. I look forward to continuing to support this program. I feel that this is one of the best ways to help low-income families and individuals with the daunting challenge that filing taxes correctly can sometimes be.” According to the IRS, VITA organizations “provide free federal tax return preparation and electronic filing to low and moderate income individuals. For tax year 2009, individuals and families with an adjusted gross income of $49,000 or lower are eligible for assistance.” The VITA grant program is specifically targeted to providing additional resources to VITA organizations that are serving underserved and hard to reach areas. ###
11.12.2009	November 12, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the departure of Lou Dobbs from CNN: “I am not sad to see Lou Dobbs leave CNN,” said Serrano. “Over time, Dobbs moved from normal news analysis to using his position to spew a steady stream of hate-filled anti-immigrant rhetoric, stopping at nothing to bash the undocumented and tie them to everything he saw wrong with this nation. “I believe the slide in CNN’s ratings at the hour he was on was no coincidence—most Americans do not care to watch unbridled hatred in their evening newscast. “It is my sincere hope that Dobbs is not given another major national platform to promote hate. His conspiracy-filled, anti-Hispanic, anti-immigrant rhetoric should not be a part of the national dialogue. It is not healthy for the ratings of a news channel because it is not healthy for our nation.” ###
11.07.2009	November 7, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which passed the House 220-215 this evening. Serrano said the passage was a “bold step on behalf of the American people” and “historic.” “I voted in favor of the health care reform bill this evening in one of the most important votes of my 35 year career in public service,” Serrano said. “Nothing I have voted for in all those years will change more lives for the better than this bill. We spent much of the year debating the details of this important bill and the resulting legislation is quite significant. “It is vital to remember that we are moving to ensure that people in our nation—the richest nation in the world—do not lack for health care. This is at the heart of the American promise – we are in this together and must look out for our neighbors. Health care is no exception. “It is also important not to forget the extent to which people suffer indignities under our current patchwork of a system, which rewards all the wrong behaviors. It rewards insurance companies for NOT covering people when they are sick; it rewards paperwork and red tape; and it rewards treating sickness, not preventing it. Today we have taken a major step to undo these problems and prevent further indignities. “For these reasons, for my Bronx constituents, for my children and grandchildren, and for the millions of Americans across the nation suffering without health care, I proudly cast my vote this evening in favor of this bill.” The following is a link to H.R. 3962 - Affordable Health Care for America Act as Introduced: http://www.congress.gov/cgi-lis/bdquery/z?d111:H.R.3962: ###
11.06.2009	November 6, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano’s resolution congratulating the Yankees on their 2009 World Series championship passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 386-17, with 11 members voting present. Serrano’s speech in support of the resolution can be seen here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PbktFLP7bl0 “I thank my colleagues for their support in congratulating the Yankees on their 27th World Series championship,” said Serrano. “We are recognizing this great team for their hard work and talent—and adding our voices to the many New Yorkers who are so proud today of the Yankees. Baseball is one of the things in American life that brings people of all backgrounds together—and the vote today shows that even when we disagree on so many things, we can come together around our national pastime.” *** H.RES.893 Whereas the New York Yankees are the most successful franchise in the history of Major League Baseball; (Introduced in House) HRES 893 IH 111th CONGRESS 1st Session H. RES. 893 Congratulating the 2009 Major League Baseball World Series Champions, the New York Yankees. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES November 5, 2009 Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr. ARCURI, Mr. BACA, Mr. BISHOP of New York, Ms. BORDALLO, Ms. CLARKE, Mr. CROWLEY, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. DICKS, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. GONZALEZ, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. HALL of New York, Mr. HIGGINS, Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. HINOJOSA, Mr. KING of New York, Mr. ISRAEL, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, Mrs. LOWEY, Mrs. MALONEY, Mrs. MCCARTHY of New York, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCMAHON, Mr. MEEKS of New York, Mr. MURPHY of New York, Mr. NADLER of New York, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. OBEY, Mr. ORTIZ, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. PASTOR of Arizona, Mr. PIERLUISI, Mr. REYES, Mr. RODRIGUEZ, Mr. ROTHMAN of New Jersey, Mr. SALAZAR, Mr. SIRES, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr. TONKO, Ms. VELAZQUEZ, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. WAMP, Mr. REHBERG, Mr. HOLT, Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky, Mr. HONDA, Mr. KUCINICH, Ms. BERKLEY, Mr. WEXLER, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. WATT, Mr. RANGEL, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. MASSA, Mr. GRAYSON, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. MAFFEI, Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida, Mr. SABLAN, and Mr. UPTON) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform RESOLUTION Congratulating the 2009 Major League Baseball World Series Champions, the New York Yankees. Whereas the New York Yankees are the most successful franchise in the history of Major League Baseball; Whereas prior to this year the Yankees had won 26 World Series Championships, the most in the Major Leagues; Whereas this historic franchise is located in the Bronx and is known as the 'Bronx Bombers'; Whereas the Yankees franchise has included all-time great players; Whereas for many years the Yankees played baseball in the historic Yankee Stadium; Whereas this year the Yankees opened a new stadium and hope to emulate the success achieved in the 'House that Ruth Built'; Whereas during the 2009 regular season, the Yankees had the best record in baseball, going 103-59; Whereas the Yankees finished at the top of the American League East Division; Whereas the Yankees went on to beat the Minnesota Twins 3 games to 0; Whereas the Yankees then faced off against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in the American League Championship Series, and emerged victorious in 6 games; Whereas that victory represented the 40th American League Pennant that the Yankees have won; Whereas the Yankees were matched up against a valiant Philadelphia Phillies squad for the World Series title; Whereas the Yankees were able to defeat the defending World Series Champions by 4 games to 2; Whereas this victory represents the Yankees' 27th World Series Championship win; Whereas this number of championship wins is 17 more than their next closest competitor; Whereas the contributions of the Yankees' players throughout the season were all vital in securing the title; and Whereas the Yankees were guided to victory by Manager Joe Girardi, General Manager Brian Cashman, President Randy Levine, and the leadership of Hank and Hal Steinbrenner: Now therefore be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives congratulates-- (1) the 2009 Major League Baseball World Series Champions, the New York Yankees, for an outstanding season and a record 27th World Series Championship win; and (2) the players, coaches, staff and leadership of the Yankees organization for their great success. ###
10.29.2009	October 29, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano was on hand this morning for the unveiling of the House version of the health care reform legislation, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which will expand coverage to 96% of Americans and make health insurance more affordable for all. A picture of Serrano at the event is available here: http://serrano.house.gov/Gallery.aspx?ID=48 “This morning I stood with my Democratic colleagues as we unveiled the House version of the health care bill that we will consider in coming weeks,” said Serrano. “This plan includes many things that I strongly support, including a public option to ensure competition with the private insurers. This is a key provision. But there are plenty of other provisions that make this a must-pass piece of legislation.” According to Serrano, some of the most important reforms include: Outlawing denials based on ‘pre-existing conditions’ and dropping coverage when people get sick; Creation of ‘health insurance exchanges,’ where people without insurance can purchase coverage from insurers or the public option; Ending annual and lifetime limits on coverage, and capping out of pocket spending to prevent runaway medical bills; Providing tax credits to low-income people to purchase coverage; Expanding Medicaid, and improving Medicare; Funding a host of prevention, wellness and public health programs. “Our nation has waited far too long for this health reform legislation—and our people have suffered too many indignities at the hands of our current system,” said Serrano. “This bill is more than a technical fix to a broken system; it is a statement about who we are as a people. We do not believe that people should have to worry about how to pay to treat their illnesses or worse, to go without treatment in a nation like ours. When we pass this bill, we will bring dignity and fairness to our healthcare system. This is a step that is long overdue.” “My home city of New York and my community in the Bronx stand to benefit a great deal from this health care bill. Many of our working families struggle to afford coverage, if they are even able to obtain it at all. We have many people on Medicare and Medicaid, and we also have a variety of health epidemics. This bill will not only help to make our community healthier, but also reduce the burden on families’ finances, get people out of the emergency room and into a physician’s office, and most of all, prevent people from enduring treatable illnesses. This is a very important piece of legislation for New York. I look forward to seeing President Obama sign it into law. The following is a link to H.R. 3962 - Affordable Health Care for America Act as Introduced: http://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_ahcaa.pdf ###
10.27.2009	October 27, 2009 – Washington, DC – Representatives José E. Serrano (D-Bronx, NY); Tim Holden (D-PA); Robert Brady (D-PA) announced today the details of their high-stakes, winner-take-all wager on the 2009 Yankees/Phillies World Series. Local food products form the tangible prize, but the bragging rights are the real takeaway. If the Phillies win, Serrano will give Holden and Brady a coveted gift basket from Mike’s Deli, which is on Arthur Avenue in the Bronx—the last authentic Little Italy in New York. Meanwhile, Holden agreed to provide cheesesteaks for Serrano if the Yankees come out on top. Brady says he will kick in South Philly cheese steaks as well but he will up the ante by adding, soft pretzels and Tastykakes for his colleagues and their staffers. “I’m glad that Tim and Bob have agreed to this bet, because I know that in about four games I will be relishing a great cheesesteak or two,” said Serrano, whose Congressional District includes Yankee Stadium. “No one in my position has gotten that privilege since 1950, when the Yankees last met the Phillies in the Fall Classic—and swept them in four straight games. It is hard for me to imagine this series being any different. I look forward to the clash of these potent offenses, but can’t wait to see the Phillies bats’ muzzled by some of the greatest pitching in the majors. It will be a series to remember, and along with a great cheesesteak, a Yankees victory to savor.” "My friend from New York seems quite confident in the Yankees success, but his memory must be short since it is the Phillies who are the reigning World Series champions," said Holden, the son of former Phillies catcher Joseph "Socks" Holden. "I'm quite confident Charlie Manuel has the boys poised and ready. Boasting the bats of four thirty-plus homerun hitters in 2009, as well a pesky one-two punch at the top of the lineup, the Phils will look to beat their rivals at the plate. And if that were not enough, Manuel will send the reigning AL Cy Young award winner, a three time Cy Young award winner and future Hall of Famer, and the reigning World Series MVP to the mound. It all sounds like a recipe for me eating from Little Italy in New York," Holden quipped. Brady says, “Philly has been preparing for this rematch for almost 60 years. And, we are more than ready. The whole city is a sea of red and that sea will be title wave in New York. My mother is Italian so I’m looking forward to chowing down and sampling the deli gift basket from New York’s Little Italy.” ###
10.22.2009	October 22, 2009 – Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, met this morning with Special Master for Executive Compensation under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), Kenneth R. Feinberg, to talk about the first round of pay restrictions being imposed on top executives at bailed out companies. After the meeting, Chairman Serrano, said he “strongly supports” the new restrictions, and “thinks this is a valuable move to protect taxpayers’ interests.” “Executives at companies that were bailed out by the taxpayers—which prevented their companies from going under—cannot expect their pay packages to be ‘business as usual’,” said Serrano. “I believe that the measures that Ken Feinberg is taking are fair, balanced and should set an example for the rest of Wall Street. It remains incomprehensible to my constituents how an executive could be awarded a multi-million dollar bonus after essentially running a company into the ground. In most other lines of work, you don’t get a bonus for failing at your job. “Ken elaborated to me that he is not making these decisions subjectively, but is instead implementing the very prescriptive legislative language that Congress wrote for this situation under TARP. I believe that point is central, should there be complaints about his actions or allegations that this is unfair. If the people with lowered pay feel wronged, they are free to come talk to Congress about their grievances. We are accountable to the taxpayers for the TARP money we spent on their behalf, and therefore, it was our decision to rein in this excessive compensation.” Corporations affected by the Treasury Department’s announcement are: AIG, Citigroup, Bank of America, Chrysler, GM, GMAC and Chrysler Financial. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
10.07.2009	October 7, 2009 – Washington, DC – Representatives José E. Serrano (D-Bronx, NY) and Keith Ellison (D-Minneapolis, MN) announced today that they had agreed on a way to settle the budding playoff rivalry between their hometown baseball teams. The two members decided that whoever finds himself representing the losing team in the 2009 American League Division Series between the New York Yankees and the Minnesota Twins will take to the House floor to sing the praises of the winning team. As avid fans of the two teams, the Congressmen felt that this was the best way to settle the series at a Congressional level. “I remember the 2003 and 2004 ALDS, but I think my friend Keith Ellison has forgotten those magnificent series,” said Congressman Serrano. “Luckily I went ahead and reminded him that both times my Yankees beat the Twins in four games. I feel confident that the Yankees will continue the streak, since they already swept the season series against the Twins. Congressman Ellison had better bone up on his Yankees knowledge, because it’s practically inevitable that he will end up on the House floor giving a speech about the greatest franchise in sports history. I look forward to the series, and the speech.” “Here’s a history lesson for my friend José Serrano: The Twins played their very first game on April 11, 1961 and beat the Yankees 6-0. Victory this week will be just as sweet in their final season playing in the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome,” said Congressman Ellison. “Today the Yankees may have more trophies and money than the Twins, but none of those things are tools for winning a game. My friend likes to talk about inevitability, but I rather like the proverb: the bigger they come, the harder they fall.” This is the 3rd time since 2003 that the Yankees and Twins have met in a divisional series. The series will feature one ballpark hosting its first playoff games (Yankee Stadium), and one hosting its last (the Metrodome). ###
09.28.2009	Washington, DC – September 28, 2009 – Today Representatives José E. Serrano and Nita M. Lowey announced that they had secured $12 million for the NYPD to bolster “Securing the Cities,” a nuclear device detection program. Both Representatives serve on the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee. “New York City is always atop terrorists’ list of targets, so we have to work especially hard to thwart attacks,” said Rep. Serrano. “This $12 million will pay to continue to develop the radiation detectors that keep us safe from the threat of dirty bombs. Besides protecting us, this program is a vital testing ground for the strategies and technologies that can later be deployed to other cities in our nation. I am proud that Nita Lowey and I were able to ensure that this vital funding was prioritized in the DHS budget. This project is simply too important to fall to the bottom of any list.” “New York remains a top target for terrorists around the world, and I am pleased we have secured critical funding to help prevent a catastrophic attack,” said Lowey. “This is an example of coordination between federal and local law enforcement agencies that is so critical to discovering threats and preventing them from coming to fruition. I will work with Congressman Serrano and the rest of the New York delegation to ensure this funding is signed into law.”Securing the Cities is a program to protect New York City from a radiological or nuclear device. It has been operating in New York and the tri-state area for the past three years and has trained and equipped anti-terrorism units. It has been jointly funded and run by federal, state, and local governments. The lessons learned from the program are expected to be used in other cities around the nation. Serrano and Lowey have successfully fought each year to secure federal funding for this initiative, because of both its local and national importance. ###
09.23.2009	September 23, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano submitted the following testimony to the Postal Regulatory Commission’s field hearing in The Bronx, where they solicited community input on their plan to close up to seven Bronx Post Office locations. I deeply appreciate that the Postal Regulatory Commission has chosen to hold one of its field hearings here in the Bronx. The choice of location clearly reflects the high number of post offices slated for closure in our borough and the importance of postal services to many thousands of immigrants, senior citizens, and working families who make their home in Bronx County. I have been a longtime supporter of the Postal Service and am well aware of the current financial difficulties that it is facing. However, I do not think that in the long run it is productive to close post offices in dense urban areas where many people still rely heavily on the postal service. Although the geographic distances between post offices in the Bronx are shorter than they are in more rural areas, when people rely on their feet and public transit to get them from place to place, the loss of the nearest post office can still have a large impact. If the Postal Service shutters post offices in my district it will remove itself from people’s daily routine, and it will encourage my constituents to look for other alternatives. Decreasing service to the community in this manner, does not seem to me to be a good long-term model for the Postal Service and could result in significant loss of market share for the USPS in communities like mine. In addition to the diminished retail footprint that will result from these proposed closures, I am concerned that the quality of mail delivery will also suffer. Among its other plans to save money, the Postal Service is proposing a move to five day a week delivery. I think that this stated desire of the USPS, along with fewer post offices in my district, will result in a lower level of service for my constituents. Although as a nation we are moving more and more to mainly electronic forms of communication, the people of my district rely heavily on the Postal Service. As a city of immigrants, New York particularly needs the Postal Service to help new arrivals send resources to communities overseas and to communicate with their family members abroad. These simple acts provide them with a vital connection to their home countries, and they need that connection to be reliable and timely. More generally, I am concerned about the criteria that have produced the current list of possible closures. A cursory examination of the list reveals that large urban areas are hit the hardest. I am not sure if this is because of the distance between post offices, or for another reason, but it does seem to me unwise for the Postal Service to target its densest consumer base with such draconian cuts. Even within the five boroughs of New York City, the locations chosen for closures seem out of balance. While the Bronx and Manhattan both have seven sites on the list, Brooklyn and Queens have none. It is my hope that the Postal Regulatory Commission is afforded the opportunity to closely consider the process under which these particular locations were selected. In addition, the larger question about the efficacy of widespread post office closures in alleviating the USPS’ fiscal crisis should also be considered by the PRC. Finally, I think that as the Postal Service moves forward it needs to identify ways to better serve its consumers. If the Postal Service just strives to do less and less, it will become even more marginalized and people will inevitably adopt other ways to meet their needs. One of the great features of the postal service is that it is everywhere. It is my constituents’ first choice because they know where their local post office is and they know that it will be open when they need it. I would urge the Postal Service to consider how it can become more useful to its customers, not less so. ###
09.23.2009	September 23, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the opening of the Wholesale Greenmarket at the New Fulton Fish Market in the Bronx, saying it was “the fulfillment of a promise to our community” and a “valuable new resource for a healthier lifestyle in the Bronx.” “Our community has watched for decades as the region’s freshest produce moves in and out of our borough en route to stores, restaurants, and supermarkets throughout the East Coast, but we never had access to that huge bounty. Today that changes, and it is a great moment,” said Serrano. “From now on, people in the community can access fresh food in bulk at affordable prices—and I expect that many will take advantage of this opportunity. “The Bronx is underserved when it comes to fresh produce, fish, and meats at affordable prices. Too many people’s only option is picked over produce offered at inflated prices. This is not because the local merchants are bad, but simply because many lack storage space, refrigeration, and even access to these products. Today’s opening gives those merchants and their customers a new option that will dramatically improve their food choices. “I applaud the work of the many, many individuals and agencies involved in making this new market a reality. Our community owes them a debt of gratitude for their dedication to the dream of opening the market to us. Like me, they believed that there is no reason that in the richest city on Earth, people in any neighborhood should lack access to affordable, high quality food. “Sometimes The Bronx, and neighborhoods like it, are sometimes called ‘food deserts.’ Today we are seeing some very healthy green shoots in that desert, and look forward to helping them grow and flourish.” ###
09.21.2009	September 21, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated the organizers and participants of yesterday’s “Peace Without Borders” concert in Havana, Cuba. “The concert’s message of peace, reconciliation and dialogue through the performing arts resonates deeply with me,” said Serrano. “I applaud the work of the organizers, the participants, and the people of Cuba who turned out in such amazing numbers. “I especially would like recognize Juanes, as well as the American citizens that sought and got permission to perform, including Puerto Rican artists, Olga Tañon and Danny Rivera. These people are doing great work to build bridges to the Cuban people—bridges that our government has largely burned over the years. These brave artists deserve our praise and no retribution from those opposed to the current Cuban government. “In a country of 11 million people, having 1 million gather for a concert is truly staggering. It shows the healing power of the arts. I hope that we are able to build off this moment for a change in relations between Cuba and the U.S. “Many want to dismiss this concert and its effect, but they have not experienced how powerful the arts can be. In many ways, the Bronx survived and was reborn out of its hard times through the arts. Music, dance, poetry, murals and plays kept people’s hopes alive in the Bronx—hopes for a better day. That power cannot be understated. I believe that the concert yesterday in Havana has the potential to be a key moment in the inevitable reconciliation between our two nations. We should listen to its message of peace and hope and begin to act to make those sentiments a reality.”
09.16.2009	September 15, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that Puerto Rico will soon begin receiving satellite radio service. Serrano was notified by the FCC yesterday that they had given XM/Sirius permission to begin building the necessary technology to provide a signal across the island. “I have been pushing the FCC for several years now to encourage satellite radio to set up in Puerto Rico because I feel that people on the island should have the same opportunities as every other citizen,” said Serrano, who chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the FCC’s annual budget. “There were some technical issues in setting up the complete service in all of Puerto Rico, but XM/Sirius has developed a system that will eliminate those problems. This is an important day for Puerto Rico’s entertainment and media sectors.” “I have long argued that Puerto Ricans living in Puerto Rico should have the same choices in goods, services and opportunities as those living elsewhere. We do not have second-class citizens in the United States and so I don’t believe that anywhere that citizens live should be treated differently. Today’s may be a smaller victory in that fight, but like every victory, it moves the U.S. citizens living in Puerto Rico closer to equality with other U.S. citizens.” ###
09.11.2009	September 11, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement on the 8th anniversary of September 11th. “Today we remember the victims of the fateful morning of September 11th, 2001. Our thoughts and prayers are with their families as we honor their memories. “Our nation suffered a grievous attack that clear morning, which failed in its intention to break the spirit of the American people. Through our shared pain, we realized that we have so much in common with our fellow citizens. “We lost so much on 9/11, but out of it, we have a new sense of patriotism and dedication to the freedoms and rights that we hold dear. We will never forget that day, with its pain and loss but also its displays of selfless heroism and courage.” ###
09.10.2009	September 10, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today released the findings of a Postal Service report on the feasibility, cost, and savings associated with the adoption of plug-in electric delivery vehicles by the nation’s largest civilian fleet. Serrano, who chairs of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, which oversees the federal payment to the Postal Service, requested the report earlier this year. “The Postal Service should begin to plan future investments that will save it money in the long run,” said Serrano. “A plug-in electric delivery fleet will not only generate significant savings over time for the Postal Service, but it will also create unique opportunities for revenue generation through vehicle-to-grid technology.” Vehicle-to-grid, or “V2G”, is a technology which manages the storage and output of electricity by batteries connected to the power grid. V2G also enables the “cash-back” feature of electric vehicles (EVs), in which power wholesalers in some markets pay fees for electricity storage and grid regulation services. The study found that a USPS electric vehicle fleet would be well-positioned to meet that need and earn revenues for the USPS from electricity wholesalers. “By creating a demand for electric vehicles, the Postal Service will help jumpstart electric vehicle manufacturing in hard-hit manufacturing states while reducing its own environmental impact in congested urban areas like The Bronx,” added Serrano. “I see it as a win-win for everyone. Investing in the greening of this fleet, which includes 146,000 delivery trucks, should be actively pursued.” The study, which was completed by the Postal Service’s Office of Inspector General, looked at the costs and benefits of an initial pilot investment in 3,000 new EVs to replace delivery vehicles that are rapidly approaching the end of their service life. “Despite the financial troubles the Postal Service is facing, planning for a greener, lower-impact future is imperative,” continued Serrano. “In this moment of great crisis for the USPS, this study has unearthed some seeds of opportunity. I look forward to working with the Postal Service to see how we can move toward replacing its old delivery fleet with new electric vehicles over the coming years. These investments cannot be put off. “I appreciate the excellent and thorough work of the Postal Service Inspector General David Williams, Assistant Inspector General for Audits Tammy Whitcomb, Director for Engineering and Facility Audits Miguel Castillo and his superb staff in putting this report together. They are doing excellent work, and I look forward to continuing our work together.” The full report that Serrano requested can be downloaded using the following link: http://www.uspsoig.gov/FOIA_files/DA-WP-09-001.pdf ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the chairman of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, which oversees the federal payment to the Postal Service.
09.09.2009	September 9, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress this evening, saying the “message, tone, and timing were right on the money.”“I couldn’t agree more with the President that the time has come for action on healthcare reform,” said Serrano. “Every day that the debate drags on, the opponents of change gain strength. Tonight the President issued a strong warning that this legislation must move toward a final compromise that can be passed and sent to his desk.” “Many in Washington have forgotten what this debate is all about. But constituents in my district certainly know that delaying and debating means that they have to continue to live with a broken system. They know that relatives, friends, and neighbors can’t afford insurance, or are going without treatment, or are one medical diagnosis away from financial ruin. They know that we cannot continue to pay premiums that increase in double-digit amounts every year. They know that the time has come to fix the system. Now it is time for us in Congress to finish the work.” ###
09.03.2009	September 3, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today applauded the Obama Administration’s implementation of new reduced restrictions on family travel and sending support to relatives in Cuba. “Early this year, when we passed the provisions in my annual spending bill loosening restrictions on family travel to Cuba, I was sending a strong signal that relations between our two nations were going to move in a new direction. Today the Obama Administration has made these reforms a permanent part of federal regulation, along with other new rule changes, including a loosening of restrictions on what can be sent to people on the island, in terms of money and goods. This is a huge step toward a more humane policy that supports families and helps begin to heal the wounds of our long, antagonistic history. “For too long the U.S. policy has choked off support to the very people it purports to help: the Cubans still on the island. While a small set of hardliners may favor this approach, it has no support in the public at large. Very few Americans support policies that split up families, and keep loved ones from supporting one another. I applaud President Obama for moving our nation in a new direction. “I urge the Administration to build on this step, and further engage Cuba in respectful dialogue. It is time that our nations begin to reconcile and move away from antagonism and mutual distrust. I applaud the steps taken today by the Administration, and look forward to more positive engagement in the future, whether it is initiated through my annual spending bill or by other means.” ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the chairman of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, which oversees the Treasury Department budget. The Treasury Department, in turn, enforces the embargo on Cuba.
07.29.2009	July 29, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today mourned the passing of Olga Mendez, who was the first female state legislator of Puerto Rican descent to be elected in the U.S. “Olga was an inspiration to many women and men in the New York, in Puerto Rico and around the country,” said Serrano. “She was charming and tough and always had the best interests of our community in her heart and was one of the strongest advocates for our issues. We were all so proud when she was elected leader of the Minority Conference in the New York State Senate in 1984. As an Assemblyman, I found that she was a great partner in moving bills forward that would help improve the lives of New Yorkers.” “I will never forget Olga’s great strength and passion. But she was also a great friend to so many people; she always had time for friends and colleagues. Above all, I know that because of her trailblazing ways, there are women who know that there are no limits on where they can go. Olga opened many doors for them and for all of us.” ###
07.28.2009	July 28, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today applauded the Senate Judiciary Committee’s approval of Judge Sonia Sotomayor’s nomination by a vote of 13 – 6. “When I received word that the Senate Judiciary Committee approved Judge Sotomayor’s nomination today, I felt great pride in knowing that this outstanding nominee and daughter of the Bronx is one step closer to being seated on the Supreme Court,” said Serrano. “During her hearings I had the honor of testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee on behalf of Judge Sotomayor, and I told them how important her nomination is to our community. I am glad that they are moving quickly to confirm her.” The vote now sends the Sotomayor nomination to the full Senate for debate and a confirmation vote. ###
07.24.2009	Washington, DC – July 24, 2009 – Today, the House voted to end the ban on the use of federal funds for syringe exchange programs, a step Congressman Serrano applauded.Serrano has been the leader of the effort to end this ban, authoring H.R. 179, the Community AIDS and Hepatitis Prevention Act, which would have mandated this step. The vote today came on the FY2010 Labor-HHS appropriations bill. “Today we had a major victory in our fight to end restrictions on effective syringe exchange programs around the nation,” said Serrano. “I have been fighting for this for several years, including introducing a bill that would have done what we did today. We knew the harsh ban on syringe exchange programs was literally killing people as they contracted infectious diseases. Our side, which is based on belief in facts, and based on sensible policies, struggled against false arguments. Today we were vindicated. I applaud my colleagues for taking this action in favor of a vital public health program, with special thanks to Chairman Obey.” “I also wish to recognize the incredible efforts of the various national and local groups that have been working for years to make this possible, especially AIDS Action, Physicians for Human Rights, and the Harm Reduction Coalition. Without the work of these valiant groups all across the nation, the step we took today never would have been possible.” ###
07.17.2009	Bill Rebuilds Regulatory Structures, Protects Consumers, Ensures Good Government Washington, DC — July 16, 2009 – Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, ushered his FY2010 funding bill to passage in the House today after a vigorous debate. The bill passed the House by a vote of 219-208. The legislation funds a variety of departments and agencies, including the Treasury Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Election Assistance Commission (EAC), and the Small Business Administration (SBA), as well as the federal Judiciary, the Executive Office of the President, and the federal payment for the District of Columbia. “We focused on several themes in the FY2010 Financial Services and General Government bill including rebuilding the regulatory structures, protecting consumers and ensuring good government,” said Chairman Serrano. “With the diverse set of agencies and departments that we oversee, we believe that putting the protection of our economy and consumers at the center of our work is of utmost importance. “For example, our bill provides $1.036 billion for the SEC—$10 million more than the budget request and $76 million more than in FY 2009. This should be enough to hire another 140 lawyers, analysts and investigators –on top of the 140 hired this year—to work on detecting and prosecuting financial misconduct. “The bill will also help make sure capital and other assistance gets to small businesses and low-income communities. It includes $848 million for the Small Business Administration—$236 million more than last year. These appropriations should be sufficient to support $28 billion in lending to small businesses—critically important for firms that may have seen other sources of financing dry up in our economic downturn. “We fund the IRS at a level where it can go after tax evaders while increasing assistance to those who need help filing their taxes. The bill fully funds the President’s request for the IRS, including a substantial increase for tax enforcement. “In terms of oversight, we ask for several reports from the Treasury Department, to help us get a better picture of what they are doing to administer the huge financial stabilization program, protect the taxpayers’ investment, and ensure compliance with the rules that have been established on subjects like executive compensation. Among other things, we’re asking the Treasury to report quarterly on their progress in implementing the recommendations of the Special Inspector General for the TARP, the Congressional Oversight Panel, and the GAO. “We also wrote the bill in such a way as to honor my commitment to the District of Columbia that I would not impose restrictions on it that other states and territories do not have. I strongly believe that Congress has a responsibility to let DC run its own affairs in the manner that it chooses. It adopts the President’s proposal for a limited continuation of the school voucher program—for those already in the program only. The bill provides new payments to address certain high priority needs: aiding the homeless, helping youth who are not connected to school or work, and slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS. “The bill also takes further steps towards reducing undue congressional interference in local affairs and eliminating restrictions on the District that do not apply to other parts of the nation. The bill eliminates the special prohibition on use of locally raised funds for abortion—thereby placing the District in the same position as each of the 50 states in that regard. The measure also discontinues the ban on the use of funds for domestic partnership registration and benefits and the ban on use of funds for needle exchange programs, and allows the District to conduct and implement a referendum on use of marijuana for medical purposes as has been done in various states. “We passed a responsible, fiscally-prudent bill tonight, which will ensure the health of our economy and raise revenue through the fair application of taxes. It tackles some urgent needs such as rebuilding our regulatory agencies to protect consumers and the economy. I applaud my colleagues for supporting the bill and look forward to seeing it signed by President Obama.” ###
07.17.2009	Washington, DC – July 16, 2009 – Congressman José E. Serrano today testified in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee in support of Judge Sonia Sotomayor’s nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery. The statement can also be viewed through the following link: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MMjTkl-bNxQ *** “Chairman Leahy, Ranking Member Sessions, Members of the Committee, thank you for the honor you have given me by inviting me to testify on behalf of Judge Sonia Sotomayor. “Today I represent the proudest neighborhood in the nation, the Bronx. “I cannot begin to describe the pride and excitement that my community feels to know that one of our own stands on the verge of a historic confirmation to the Supreme Court. Like you, I am often greeted by constituents on streets, at diners, after church services, where I cut my hair, or at the local bodega. Usually we talk about a personal or congressional issue or simply a friendly greeting. Now they just talk about Sonia. They speak about her as if she was a member of their personal family, about their pride in her accomplishments. They show a profound understanding of just how significant this nomination is and how it proves that in our country everything is possible. “One of the best examples of the significance of this nomination is the number of people who are watching these hearings. In the Bronx and in many communities around our nation folks have come together to share this moment. That is a clear sign of the pride and joy that they feel. Back home it is a celebration. “Like the nominee, my family moved from Puerto Rico to New York. Like her, I grew up in a public housing project in the Bronx. Like her family, we also struggled in our new surroundings. It was tough in the Bronx, but we had dignity and our eye on a better future. “One of the proudest moments of my life came when I was first elected to the New York State Assembly with my classmate Senator Chuck Schumer. As they were swearing us in a friend said to my father, “Don Pepe, you are a lucky man. You have two children. One son is a school teacher and the other is an Assemblyman. My Pop, with that wonderful accented English replied: “I busted my back to get lucky.” I am sure that Judge Sotomayor and her mother have had many similar moments. We are living our parents’ dreams—enabled by their sacrifices and years of hard work. “But our story is not unique to the community we come from. All around our great nation, there are people working day and night, saving, doing without, all in order that their children could live the life that they want for them. “Sonia represents the best of American culture. She comes directly from the strand of our national character that says “you can be anything you want.” It says, “Through hard work you can reach the top in this country.” She is living proof that our dreams for our children are never impossible. “When you invited me to speak I wondered if my role here today was to tell you about her legal qualifications. Coming before you are many people who will speak to her work in the legal profession. We know that she is highly regarded and that she has a deep understanding of the law and a profound respect for the Constitution. She comes before you with more Federal Court experience than any other nominee in the last hundred years. I quickly came to the conclusion that my role is to tell you about where she comes from, how she got to this point, and what that means. “We come from rough neighborhoods. We were surrounded by people making do on too little. Sometimes, there was desperation and despair. Around us were many distractions that could have taken us down a totally different road. But there was also ambition and people determined to make something of themselves. “We came from a place where family comes first, where the core values were hard work and looking out for one another. As I moved out into the wider world, first through the Army, and then in my political career, I learned that these were not liberal or New York or Latino values. They were American values. “Bronx neighborhoods may not be seen as similar to “middle America” but the values that we hold dear—family, freedom, looking out for family and neighbors—are the same. Everyone watching this nomination should know that based upon her background and ideals, they are in good hands with Judge Sotomayor. “When I walk into the Capitol to work on behalf of the American people, I often stop and think ‘how fortunate I am as a kid from the Bronx projects to have made it here.’ It is an incredible story that I have lived. But since Judge Sotomayor was nominated by President Obama, I have had to remember that my story pales in comparison to hers. “In conclusion, this proud woman from the Bronx is perhaps the best and the brightest we have. She has risen to the top through her incredible intellect and hard, hard work. I know that her values are your values and those of people around our great nation. Her story is my story. Her story is your story or that of your parents or your grandparents. “She will be a brilliant Justice on the Court and I urge you to vote in favor of her nomination. “Thank you for allowing me the honor of testifying before this committee on such a historic occasion.” ###
07.08.2009	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, lauded passage of his FY2010 funding bill late last night, saying “the Appropriations Committee has endorsed a very responsible bill.” The Committee passed the bill by voice vote. The legislation funds a variety of departments and agencies, including the Treasury Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Election Assistance Commission (EAC), and the Small Business Administration (SBA), as well as the federal Judiciary, the Executive Office of the President, and the federal payment for the District of Columbia. The committee considered numerous amendments to the bill, many of which focused on Republican efforts to reinsert restrictive social riders regarding the District of Columbia, which Chairman Serrano had removed. No amendment passed on a vote, though several were accepted by Chairman Serrano. “Last night my colleagues on the full Appropriations Committee gave their approval to my bill and its approach to a variety of issues. The bill will increase the ability of our financial regulatory agencies to protect our financial system, our economy, and consumers. It will help make sure capital and other assistance gets to small businesses and low-income communities, which are hurting in this economic downturn. It will also fund the IRS at a level where it can go after tax evaders- including wealthy individuals and businesses who attempt to avoid taxes by parking their cash overseas- but at the same time provide assistance to those needing help filing their taxes.” “We also wrote the bill in such a way as to honor my commitment to the District of Columbia that I would not impose restrictions on it that other states and territories do not have. I strongly believe that Congress has a responsibility to let DC run its own affairs in the manner that it chooses. We had a variety of amendments last night that sought to re-impose social riders that I had taken out. There were amendments that sought to restrict DC’s right to conduct a referendum on the use of medical marijuana and to use their own local funds like any other state for abortion services. My colleagues voted these amendments down in both cases. I believe that they too share my belief that the District should be left to govern itself, and I believe a majority in the House will agree. “We passed a responsible, fiscally-prudent bill last night, which will ensure the health of our economy and raise revenue through the fair application of taxes. In short, we are making key investments in agencies and departments which will benefit all taxpayers in the end. I commend my colleagues for their support and look forward to taking this bill to the House floor soon.” ###
06.30.2009	June 30, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano mourned the passing of Puerto Rican comedian and T.V. producer Paquito Cordero today. “Paquito Cordero was a legend in Puerto Rico and The Bronx,” said Serrano. “We are all so sad to hear of his passing. He brought the best of Puerto Rican culture into our homes for so many years, and his shows were among the most popular for more than a generation. “I came to New York at the age of six. My parents encouraged me to stay in touch with my roots. But as a child, my only cultural link to Puerto Rico were the stage shows at the Puerto Rico Theatre in the Bronx. Later radio and TV shows were added as ways to keep in touch with the island. Paquito Cordero brought many of his programs to the Bronx. It was a way for a kid like me to keep in touch and learn about our artists. “As a teenager, I worked as an usher at the Puerto Rico Theatre and had an opportunity to speak with him. I was amazed at what a humble and simple man he was. He was a giant who treated me as a brother. “Later, as an elected official, I met him at some New York events and spoke to him on the phone. He was always the same. A gentle man and a pioneer. “I always say that Puerto Ricans made New York a bilingual city. Paquito Cordero was one of those pioneers who helped do that. Without people like Paquito Cordero, Tommy Muniz, Luis Vigoreaux and others, I would not have the ability to fully understand who I am and where I came from. He will be missed.” ###
06.29.2009	June 29, 2009 – Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, joined Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Director Donna Gambrell to announce that an additional $90 million in funding would be awarded through the economic recovery package. Serrano’s subcommittee oversees funding for the CDFI fund and the overall Treasury Department. The announcement came at The Point CDC, a Bronx-based community development organization that has received CDFI funds in the past. “I have been a strong advocate of the CDFI fund,” said Chairman Serrano. “Since assuming the Chairmanship of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, I have consistently increased funding for this program because it delivers real results to disadvantaged communities. The CDFIs have a exemplary record of using their funding to offer loans, investments, and other financial services in underserved neighborhoods. And the effects are magnified, because within this program each dollar awarded leverages an average of fifteen dollars in additional private investments in our disadvantaged communities. “It is fitting that we are making this announcement at The Point CDC – an organization that has received important assistance stemming from CDFI funding. It has contributed so much to our Bronx community and is an example of the good that can come from CDFI funding. “In fact, CDFI awardees have an exemplary record of investing here in our Bronx community. Through the end of 2007, 13 different CDFIs made 782 distinct investments totaling $252.8 million in the Bronx. “In the FY2010 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill, which just passed out of Subcommittee this past Thursday, I included a recommendation of $244 million for the CDFI Fund, a significant increase over FY2009 levels. This will help our community development banks, credit unions, and nonprofit loan funds to fill the void that has resulted from the overall decline in bank lending activity. Within this total, $80 million is provided to jump-start the Capital Magnet Fund, a new competitive grant program for CDFIs and nonprofit organizations to work on affordable housing. “I am a great believer in the CDFI Fund and it is a privilege to be here today with Treasury Secretary Geithner and CDFI Fund Director Donna J. Gambrell at the formal national award announcement for the $90 million in CDFI funding that we were able to include in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. I know that as a result of the awards being announced today, additional financial services and economic development efforts will become available and have a positive impact on our Bronx community and places like it around the nation.” ###
06.29.2009	June 29, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today strongly condemned the military coup in Honduras against President Manuel Zelaya.“I strongly condemn the actions of the Honduran military in overthrowing a democratically-elected president,” said Congressman Serrano. “President Zelaya must be returned to the presidency immediately. There is no place in today’s Latin America for these strong-arm tactics of military intervention in political affairs. No matter what the problems, this situation should be resolved with respect for the rule of law. The leaders of this coup must stand down and allow President Zelaya back to his duly-elected position until his term expires. Anything less is unacceptable.” ###
06.26.2009	June 26, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the news that the Venezuelan Ambassador to the U.S., Bernardo Alvarez and his American counterpart Patrick Duddy had returned to their posts.“I applaud the reestablishment of ambassadorial level relations between our two nations,” said Serrano. “Our relationship with Venezuela over the past several years has been far too contentious and often confrontational—not having Ambassadors to help facilitate smoother dialogue was not helpful. As we move forward I urge the Obama and Chavez Administrations to place a premium on respectful dialogue. It is time to restart a productive relationship between our nations where we can work together on topics of mutual interest.” ###
06.25.2009	Washington, DC — Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, delivered the following statement at the Subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year 2010 bill today: “This bill encompasses a wide and diverse span of agencies and programs, and a great many decisions went into its preparation. In putting it together, though, we were guided by several basic priorities. The first of these priorities is rebuilding the regulatory agencies that are supposed to protect investors, consumers, and taxpayers. Unfortunately, we have recently seen the results of the past drive for deregulation of our financial system and economy—results which include a meltdown of the banking system, a deep recession, and huge bills for the taxpayer. It’s now time to rebuild some regulatory protections. One of the key agencies we fund is the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which is supposed to prevent manipulation of financial markets and combat fraudulent and deceptive practices. It’s under new management that is dedicated to carrying out those responsibilities. Our bill provides $1.036 billion for the SEC—$10 million more than the budget request and $76 million more than in FY 2009. This should be enough to hire around another 140 lawyers, analysts and investigators, on top of the 140 hired this year, to work on detecting and prosecuting financial misconduct. The bill also adds $4.5 million above the budget request for the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which would receive a total of $292 million under this bill—$33 million more than in FY 2009. The FTC’s basic responsibility is to protect consumers—especially ordinary folks who may not have as much sophistication in financial matters. The Commission does everything from running the “do not call” registry to regulating unfair and deceptive advertising to investigating and prosecuting anti-competitive behavior. Especially during hard times like the present, one of the FTC’s vital missions is to go after those who prey on distress: such as payday lenders, subprime mortgage companies, and people selling phony “foreclosure rescue” schemes or promises to fix your credit rating or negotiate down your credit card bills for a large fee. We also strengthen some of the inspector general offices that are making sure that regulatory and financial agencies are doing what they are supposed to. For example, the bill increases the budget of the Treasury Department Inspector General by $3.6 million and the FDIC Inspector General by $10 million. For the first time, it also gives the SEC Inspector General a separate budget, independent of the SEC management. In terms of oversight, we ask for several reports from the Treasury Department, to help us get a better picture of what they are doing to administer the huge financial stabilization program, protect the taxpayers’ investment, and ensure compliance with the rules that have been established on subjects like executive compensation. Among other things, we’re asking the Treasury to report quarterly on their progress in implementing the recommendations of the Special Inspector General for the TARP, the Congressional Oversight Panel, and the GAO. Another important regulatory agency in our bill is the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). Last year, Congress reacted to massive product recalls, including dangerous toys from China, by passing on a bipartisan basis major legislation strengthening the powers of the CPSC. The Commission is now working diligently to implement that legislation. The bill appropriates $113 million for the Commission, $8 million more than in FY 2009, to help implement the new law, increase their presence at ports to prevent dangerous goods from entering the country, and deal with new problems like the defective drywall that has been showing up in Florida and other Gulf States and damaging homes and health. A second major priority for the bill is helping make sure capital and other assistance gets to small businesses and low-income communities—not just to the large and the wealthy. It includes $848 million for the Small Business Administration—$236 million more than last year. These appropriations should be sufficient to support $28 billion in lending to small businesses—critically important for firms that may have seen other sources of financing dry up. We also continue Small Business Development Centers at this year’s level, rejecting the proposed $13 million cut, and provide a boost for the PRIME program which is targeted to low-income and very-low-income small business owners. In addition, the bill supports the President’s request of $244 million for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which helps supply credit to disadvantaged communities. The funding in this bill will allow community development banks, credit unions, and others to help fill the void that has resulted from the overall decline in bank lending activity. On average, each dollar invested in the CDFI Fund has leveraged at least fifteen dollars in additional private investment in underserved communities. Within this total, $80 million is provided to jump-start the Capital Magnet Fund, a new competitive grant program for CDFIs and nonprofit organizations to work on affordable housing. A third top priority is supporting equitable and efficient administration of justice in the Federal courts. In addition to keeping up with pay and benefit costs, rent, and other basic operating expenses, the bill supports additional staff to help deal with growing workloads. This includes around another 140 clerks and other personnel for the bankruptcy courts—to help deal with the 28 percent increase in filings over the past 12 months. We also adopt a recommendation from the Federal Judiciary to provide a significant increase in hourly rates for the private panel attorneys who are appointed to represent people charged with crimes who cannot afford to hire a lawyer. A fourth priority is providing for fair and effective collection of taxes. The bill fully funds the President’s request for the IRS, including a substantial increase for tax enforcement to help reduce the gap between taxes owed and taxes paid. Among other uses, these funds are intended to go after wealthy individuals and businesses who avoid U.S. tax obligations by parking money in overseas tax shelters. In enforcing our tax laws, we need to be sure we’re going after the big fish as well as the little ones. At the same time, the bill also includes funds for the IRS to assist taxpayers—in person, over the phone, or on the IRS web site. It continues funding for Tax Counseling for the Elderly sites and provides increases above the request for the IRS Taxpayer Advocate Service, grants to low-income taxpayer clinics, and Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance. Another priority addressed in this bill is meeting our responsibilities to the nation’s capital city and its residents. We have provided $768 million to meet these obligations. Among other things, the measure continues assistance to improve education in both public and charter schools in the District. It adopts the President’s proposal for a limited continuation of the school voucher program—for those already in the program only. The Committee provides new payments to address certain high priority needs: aiding the homeless, helping youth who are not connected to school or work, and slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS. The bill also takes further steps towards reducing undue congressional interference in local affairs and eliminating restrictions on the District that do not apply to other parts of the nation. The bill eliminates the special prohibition on use on locally raised funds for abortion—thereby placing the District in the same position as each of the 50 states in that regard. The measure also discontinues the ban on use of funds for domestic partnership registration and benefits and the ban on use of funds for needle exchange programs, and allows the District to conduct and implement a referendum on use of marijuana for medical purposes as has been done in various states. The bill also addresses many other issues. For example, it shifts the priorities of the Office of National Drug Control Policy by substantially reducing funding for the youth media campaign, which appears to be ineffective in decreasing drug use among teenagers. Some of the savings were redirected into two more effective anti-drug programs: grants for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, which receive an increase of $14 million above last year, and Drug-Free Communities coalition grants, which receive an increase of $8 million. We also include a clarification of language from last year’s bill regarding trade with Cuba and the requirement for payment of “cash in advance”, in order to remove unnecessary obstacles to exports of agricultural goods to that nation. In short, this is a good bill. It tackles some of urgent needs such as rebuilding our regulatory agencies to protect consumers and the economy. It takes a number of other “good government” steps to help make sure that taxpayers get the effective government they deserve. I urge your support. ###
06.16.2009	June 16, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano voted against the supplemental appropriations bill this evening, saying he “could not vote for continuing the war in Iraq and expanding the war in Afghanistan without a clear plan.” “I realize that President Obama inherited a war in Iraq that was wrong from the start, and had been mishandled for years,” said Serrano. “I realize that it may take some time to withdraw the troops from Iraq. With that said, I cannot support funding a deepening war in Afghanistan without a clear plan with clear goals. I had to vote against this bill on that basis and it does not reflect on my deep respect for this President.” ###
06.10.2009	June 10, 2009 – Washington, DC –Congressman José E. Serrano announced today that he had successfully included provisions in the annual Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill to help enhance funding for the Arecibo Observatory, and to guide the Census to include Puerto Rico’s population in their final overall tally for the nation’s population. Serrano felt both items were important to make sure Puerto Rico was getting fair treatment from the federal government.“Like Puerto Ricans on the island, I believe that the valuable work done at Arecibo Observatory must continue uninterrupted,” said Serrano. “The National Science Foundation has recommended cutting funding for this important research facility over the next several years. It is important to ensure that alternate funding sources for Arecibo are found to keep the legendary observatory operating. I asked that the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Subcommittee, on which I serve, to provide newly authorized funds for Arecibo through NASA, to help keep important dollars flowing to the facility for the next year. My colleagues agreed that this should be a priority, and in the bill that passed the full Appropriations Committee yesterday, we made sure that NASA will provide $2 million funding for research at Arecibo. This is a big day for the Puerto Rican scientific community. “In another section of the bill, I successfully included report language that urges the Census to include the population of Puerto Rico in the final count of U.S. population. In the past the Census has not included them in the bottom line – though the U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico are counted by the Census. In effect, the Census would say ‘the population of the U.S. is 300 million’ and then add ‘plus another 3.9 million in Puerto Rico.” This language will push the Census Bureau to include the populations of all areas under the US flag, including Puerto Rico, in the total population of the United States. People living in Puerto Rico are U.S. citizens, and deserve to be treated, and counted, as such.” “While the current colonial relationship continues, Puerto Ricans can depend on me to fight for them to be treated as equally as possible to other U.S. citizens in everything that the federal government does. There can be no second class citizens in our great nation regardless of where they live.” The Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill carrying Serrano’s language passed the full Appropriations Committee on a voice vote yesterday afternoon. It now will move to the full House for consideration. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a member of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Bureau of the Census and NASA.
06.09.2009	June 9, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that he had successfully included provisions in the annual Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill to ensure the fairness of the Census to minorities and small population groups, and to help address concerns regarding the reporting of inmate addresses at state corrections institutions. Serrano applauded the increased funding levels for the Census to prepare for the decennial count next year and commended the Committee for fending off an amendment that would have reduced the funding. “I have long fought for the greatest level of accuracy and fairness in the Census’ count,” said Serrano. “Today I am pleased to announce that the Appropriations Committee approved my language in this bill guaranteeing people have the option of specifying “some other race” in response to race questions. “They also approved my report language ensuring data on small population groups or subgroups is accurately collected and made available. “In addition, my report language also made certain that state corrections agencies are able to work with their federal counterparts to update and improve their inmate address reporting. The Census Bureau has previously cited this as an impediment to counting inmates at their prior home of record rather than at their place of incarceration. “These are three very important provisions that address problems that the Census has had in the past. “The Census happens only once every 10 years, and is of fundamental importance to so many government and societal activities. We have an obligation to get the count right—and to count people the right way. My language and opposition to cuts to the Census budget reflect my commitment to the Census’ core mission of the most accurate count possible.” The Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill carrying Serrano’s language passed the full Appropriations Committee on a voice vote this afternoon. It now will move to the full House for consideration. ###Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a member of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Bureau of the Census.
06.03.2009	June 3, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano commended the decision of the OAS today to take a first step toward allowing Cuba to rejoin. Recent news reports indicate that the organization’s member states have agreed to revoke a 1962 resolution banning Cuba from membership. With that impediment out of the way, Cuba could potentially apply for admission. Serrano called for the U.S. to “respect the wishes of Latin America” as it correctly asserts that the U.S. policy of exclusion and isolation of Cuba is sorely in need of change. “Today Latin America clearly said ‘enough’ on our Cuba policy,” said Congressman Serrano. “Though Cuba may not choose to ask for admission to the OAS, the hemisphere has spoken of their desire for a new direction for relations with Cuba. Like them, I believe that the Obama Administration is moving in the right direction and should take further steps to change our Cuba policy. “The very fact that the policy of the OAS was based on a resolution from 1962 is itself very telling and indicates that we must adjust our policies to reflect the realities of 2009, rather than stick to those of the Cold War. “I urge the Obama Administration to listen and defer to the region on this question and take further steps to normalize relations with Cuba.” ###
05.26.2009	May 26, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to serve on the Supreme Court, calling her “eminently qualified” and “the pride of the Bronx and Puerto Rico.” “We have always talked about the need for diversity on the Supreme Court, and here we have a nominee who embodies it in so many ways,” said Serrano, who represents the Bronx in Congress, and has known Sotomayor for years. “The unique perspective of a Puerto Rican woman from the Bronx is something from which our Supreme Court will benefit greatly. As a result, our nation will also benefit from this new and refreshing viewpoint on our highest court.” “I have known Sonia Sotomayor for many years and I consider her a friend. I also believe that she is perhaps the best-qualified candidate that Obama could have selected. She has vast experience deciding tough cases in a fair and impartial manner, with a clear understanding that she, like other judges, is there to protect the rights of the American people, to ensure fairness and justice under the law, and to protect the values enshrined in our Constitution. When she is confirmed to the Supreme Court—which I am certain she will be—I believe that the American people will come to appreciate these qualities in her as well. “I can’t help but add that the Bronx is bursting with pride to know that one of the kids from the neighborhood, a sister, a daughter, a friend, a Puerto Rican, a Bronxite has been honored with this nomination. We are so very proud today, because we know that Bronx values which center on family, hard work, faith, looking out for your neighbors, and treating people with respect, will now be on display in one of the most powerful positions in the Federal government.” ###
05.21.2009	Today the subcommittee meets to discuss the work of the Treasury Department and its budget request for fiscal year 2010. I am pleased that the request includes funding for expanded IRS Enforcement efforts targeted at individuals and businesses seeking to park cash overseas in order to escape U.S. taxes. I am also pleased to see the strong funding increase for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, to provide capital and financial services for underserved, low-income communities throughout the country, communities that are suffering the most from the current state of the economy. At the same time, however, I am dismayed that the Department is refusing to abide by a key provision of the fiscal year 2009 Appropriations Act relating to agricultural and medical sales to Cuba. This is totally unacceptable, and I will have more to say about this today. Of the Treasury Department’s many responsibilities, none has attracted the attention and concern of the American public as much as the Department’s role in responding to the financial crisis, and in particular the Department’s implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. Its success or failure is just too important to the country and to all of our constituents. There are several key questions we must ask. First, are the Department’s actions helping to restore confidence in the financial markets? Are credit markets opening up again, and is lending increasing again? Second, are the Department’s actions helping to stem the tide of home foreclosures in this country? Last month alone, more than 340,000 properties received a default or auction notice or were seized. As highlighted by a study released last week by the Pew Research Center, 85 percent of the neighborhoods worst hit by foreclosures are minority neighborhoods. Other research has found that tenants make up a large percentage of those who lose their homes in foreclosure because their new landlords do not have to respect the leases signed by the old landlord. While I am encouraged that the Department has unveiled a plan to prevent foreclosures, and while it is reasonable to expect that the plan will take some time to see results, this problem is of utmost urgency to millions of Americans. A third question is whether the American taxpayer is getting a good deal. Will the taxpayer recoup the massive public investments that are being made in financial institutions? I have said in the past that, when Wall Street was doing great and these guys were giving each other $50 million bonuses, I couldn’t see anything happen to my district in the Bronx that made me say, “Wow, there’s some good from what’s happening on Wall Street.” Now, Wall Street is not doing as well, bonuses have still been paid, and many of the problems in my district, especially the foreclosures problem, are getting worse. I hope that the Department will keep in mind the needs of all Americans in all communities, and not just Wall Street, as we attempt to solve this crisis. I expect that we will have a very healthy and vigorous discussion this morning. Secretary Geithner knows more about these issues than most anyone else in the country, having previously headed up the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Secretary Geithner had also played a lead role in the Treasury Department’s responses to the global financial crises of the late 1990s. We welcome you, Secretary Geithner, and look forward to your testimony today. ###
05.21.2009	May 21, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his outrage at the idea that there was a plot to bomb a Bronx synagogue while congratulating the New York Police Department and FBI for breaking up the scheme and arresting the suspects. “The actions of these bomb plot suspects is outrageous and I condemn their motives and actions,” said Serrano. “New York is a place of tolerance and mutual respect—terror and hatred have no place in our City. I stand united with other City leaders in applauding the fine work of the NYPD, FBI and other law enforcement agencies in apprehending the plotters before they committed a heinous crime.” ###
05.20.2009	Welcome to our annual hearing with the Office of Management and Budget. OMB, of course, plays the lead role in formulating the President’s budget, which we spend so much time studying and debating. On that subject, I’d like to say how refreshing it is that this year’s budget gives the Appropriations Committee some fairly realistic numbers to work with—rather than continuing the previous approach of pretending that we don’t need to adequately pay for all the important things the government does in areas like public safety, education, science, and health. But while OMB does the nation’s budget, we do OMB’s budget—which is one of the reasons we’re having this hearing today. Last year we decided it was time to help OMB out a bit. Over the years, their funding has not kept up with rising costs, with the result that the size of the OMB staff has been shrinking. In the FY 2009 appropriations bill, we tried to help reverse that trend, by adding money to restore some staff and to also deal with problems in OMB’s computer systems. At today’s hearing we’ll be interested in learning about how OMB is using those funds. Our subcommittee also crosses paths with OMB in the “general provisions” carried in our bill dealing with matters of government-wide policy. For example, one issue that we have been concerned about is the rapidly rising volume of government contracts, as the previous Administration increasingly turned to private contractors to take over functions previously performed by public employees. Some of that activity may have been beneficial, but much of it has been wasteful, inefficient, and demoralizing to the Federal workforce. Further, far too many contracts are being awarded without full and open competition, and there has been inadequate management and oversight to make sure that contractors actually perform and provide good value. To help deal with these problems, we’ve been carrying various requirements and restrictions in our annual bill, and we’re gratified to see that policy change is on the way in the executive branch as well. President Obama has asked the OMB Director to study various issues regarding federal procurement, in cooperation with other senior government officials, and to make recommendations for change. We look forward to the results of that effort. OMB also deals with government-wide policy in a number of other areas, including the regulatory process, information technology, and statistical policy. We’ll likely explore some of these areas in the course of this hearing. Our witness today is Peter Orszag, who was appointed Director of OMB by President Obama. Dr. Orszag is an economist by training. During the Clinton Administration he served as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and in various positions at the Council of Economic Advisers. He’s been a Senior Fellow and Deputy Director of Economic Studies at the Brookings Institution, and most recently has worked in the Legislative Branch as Director of the Congressional Budget Office during 2007 and 2008. ###
05.20.2009	May 20, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today applauded New York State’s enactment of legislation to extend unemployment benefits. Governor David Paterson worked with Senate Majority Leader Malcolm A. Smith and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver to pass this legislation. The extension, which takes effect today, will enable New York to access more federal funding for unemployment insurance. “When my colleagues and I voted in favor of the economic recovery funding bill, we wanted to make sure that the people suffering from this economic downturn would get a helping hand,” said Congressman Serrano.” The leaders in New York State took a vital step today to make sure that our intent is turned into reality—in the form of extended unemployment benefits for those out-of-work New Yorkers. I applaud their enactment of this important piece of legislation.” According to the Governor’s fact sheet “The legislation allows New York to access an estimated $645 million in additional federal aid available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), which will contribute to the State unemployment system and provide an additional 13 weeks of UI benefits.” “Along with our partners in New York State, we are working to make sure that we get our economy back on the right track. Just like those around the nation, folks in the Bronx are hurting. Yet I believe that today’s announcement, like the many others recently about economic recovery spending, will help to get Bronx residents back to on their feet. We are determined to make sure that families suffer as little as possible during these difficult times.” ###
05.19.2009	Today, the subcommittee meets to discuss the Internal Revenue Service and its budget request for fiscal year 2010. The IRS is by far the largest budgetary item within the subcommittee’s jurisdiction, and the Administration’s budget request for the IRS for fiscal year 2010 is $12.1 billion, an increase of $603 million, or 5.2 percent, above 2009. We welcome the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Douglas Shulman, back for his second appearance before our subcommittee. As we all know, the IRS helps collect 96 percent of the Federal Government’s revenue, helping to ensure funding for every important government function imaginable. Each year, the IRS processes more than 140 million tax returns. The IRS assists millions of taxpayers each year over the phone, at walk-in sites, and via the IRS web site. The IRS does all of this while continuing its Business Systems Modernization program to modernize the information technology systems that make all of this possible. The issue of the Tax Gap—that is, the difference between the amount of taxes owed and the amount actually collected—has grown in prominence in recent years. The most recent estimate of the tax gap is $290 billion, which the IRS Taxpayer Advocate has described as a surtax of more than $2,200 per taxpayer to subsidize the noncompliance of others. I am pleased that the Administration has put forward a plan to hire additional IRS enforcement personnel to pursue, for example, wealthy individuals seeking to avoid U.S. taxes by parking cash overseas. At the same time, as the Taxpayer Advocate has noted, the recession has brought increased hardship to a great many taxpayers of more modest means, rendering many unable to pay overdue tax debts. The balance between these two priorities—closing the tax gap, while at the same time exploring special accommodations for taxpayers facing economic hardship—is an ongoing issue for the IRS. I would also like to continue to emphasize my strong support for expanding IRS efforts to provide quality services for taxpayers. As noted in last year’s IRS progress report on the Taxpayer Assistance Blueprint, a portion of the tax gap is attributable to errors by individual taxpayers, errors that IRS service programs should be designed to prevent and correct. While volunteer organizations have done terrific work in providing free or low-cost assistance to taxpayers all across the country, volunteers alone cannot be expected to provide these important services. The importance of IRS services, and the continued high demand for such services, is particularly illustrated by the experience of the IRS toll-free hotline last year. Because the IRS received a higher-than-expected volume of phone calls with questions related to the 2008 economic stimulus checks, the IRS did not have the capacity to assist millions of taxpayers in a timely manner, though the Commissioner and the IRS are to be commended for making every accommodation to assist as many taxpayers as possible. Commissioner Shulman has served as IRS Commissioner since March of last year. Prior to that, he served as Vice Chairman of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Earlier in his career, he served as senior policy advisor and chief of staff to the National Commission on Restructuring the IRS. Commissioner Shulman, thank you very much for your service, and we very much look forward to your testimony and to discussing the challenges faced by the IRS. ###
05.19.2009	Today, we will hear from the National Archives and Records Administration on its budget request for fiscal year 2010. Overall, NARA is requesting $454 million dollars, an increase of $6.6 million, or 1.5 percent, above fiscal year 2009. We welcome the Acting Archivist of the United States, Adrienne Thomas, back to the subcommittee. In so many ways, NARA serves a vitally important role in our country. It helps preserve and provide access to a vast array of important records. These records help to tell the stories of individuals, institutions, and the country as a whole. NARA holds the records of all three branches of the Federal Government and operates twelve—soon to be thirteen--Presidential Libraries. Whether helping to keep Government open and accountable, assisting individuals with genealogical research, or assisting historians, the information made available by the National Archives has provided valuable assistance to a great many people for decades. Furthermore, every Federal working day, NARA publishes the Federal Register, to help inform Americans about government regulations and opportunities to submit comments on proposed government rules. Most recently, NARA’s new Office of Government Information Services is intended to strengthen the Freedom of Information Act and to ensure that Government remains open and accessible to the public. NARA has recently acquired the White House records of the Bush Administration and is working to reduce the backlog of Freedom of Information Act requests for records of previous presidents. In addition, NARA is working on the multi-year Electronic Records Archives effort, to allow electronic records to be preserved and retrieved far into the future, regardless of future changes in technology. However, like other government information technology projects, this effort has had some difficulties, and I look forward to discussing this subject further today. Adrienne Thomas has served as Acting Archivist of the United States since December. She has been with the National Archives for more than 38 years, most recently serving as Deputy Archivist and as Assistant Archivist for Administration and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Thomas, thank you for your service and for appearing before us today. We also welcome back Martha Morphy, the Chief Information Officer of NARA. Thank you, as well, for joining us today. ###
05.14.2009	May 14, 2009 – Washington, DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement regarding his vote on the fiscal year 2009 war supplemental: “In a few short months in office, President Obama has done many positive things to change the direction of our nation. However, the war supplemental does not demonstrate a clear change in direction in Afghanistan. The funding contained in the bill is too focused on a military solution, and does not reflect the need for a new strategy based on diplomacy and development. I could not support legislation that continues to fund a war without a timely plan for peace. “In addition, while we are moving towards an end to the war in Iraq, I have always said that we must remove our troops as soon as possible. This bill does not do enough to speed that process along.” ###
05.12.2009	Our hearing today is about the General Services Administration. Maybe it’s fitting that we begin with GSA, since they provide the foundation for so much of what the Federal Government does. GSA is the agency that helps make sure Federal workers have a place to work, with lights and heat, and with the computers, telephones, equipment, and vehicles they need to do their job. In addition to the services GSA provides directly, it’s also responsible for developing government-wide policies in areas like procurement and information technology, in order to keep Federal practices up-to-date, fair, efficient, and transparent. A few months ago, we handed GSA another large job. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act appropriated almost $6 billion to GSA, mostly for construction of new facilities, and for renovation and modernization of old ones in order to create “high performance green buildings”. Another part of the funding is for purchasing more energy-efficient vehicles for the Federal fleet. The idea is to put people back to work, building things the country needs, while reducing energy consumption and environmental impact. The Recovery Act roughly tripled GSA’s construction management workload—and we told them to get the work going as quickly as possible, and to do innovative and cutting-edge things while they’re at it. So today we want to hear how GSA is doing. We look forward to a progress report on implementation of the Recovery Act, as well as to an explanation of the priorities that GSA and the Administration are setting in the FY 2010 budget. Our witness today is Paul Prouty, the Acting Administrator of GSA. Mr. Prouty is one of those career public servants who do so much to keep the government running. He started with GSA more than 38 years ago as an intern in the real estate program. Since then he’s held a variety of positions with the Public Buildings Service, and has been Regional Administrator for the Rocky Mountain Region. Along the way, Mr. Prouty has twice won the GSA Distinguished Service Award as well as a Presidential Meritorious Rank Award. He found himself as Acting Administrator just as the Recovery Act was enacted. Thus, it has been Mr. Prouty and his team of career professionals at GSA who have taken the lead in planning and launching the rather extraordinary effort called for by that legislation. ###
05.11.2009	May 11, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today presented the Purple Heart medal to Jose Velez-Valentin, a Bronx veteran wounded in the Korean War. Velez-Valentin had been working to get appropriate recognition for his combat-related injuries from the Defense Department, and ultimately came to Congressman Serrano’s office for help. The ceremony today was the culmination of that work, and a long-overdue acknowledgment of Velez-Valentin’s sacrifice in Korea. “I was pleased to be able to help Mr. Velez-Valentin to gain recognition for his service to our country—and the wounds that he suffered as a result,” said Congressman Serrano. “Our nation makes a pact with those who serve in the Armed Forces, and part of that pact is making sure that their sacrifices do not go unnoticed. Today we are honoring the heroic service of a Bronx resident and thanking him for what he did for our nation more than 50 years ago in Korea. On behalf of the Bronx and as a representative of our federal government, I thank him for his service and salute him as a veteran wounded in defense of our nation.” Jose Velez-Valentin was seriously injured in action in Korea on 29 May 1953. He sustained wounds from artillery fire while advancing against the enemy forces, as he served in the 14th Regiment of the 25th Infantry Division. His discharged rank was Corporal, even though he served as Acting Sergeant in the Korean War. ###
05.08.2009	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Mr. Jose Velez-Valentin, Invited Guests including members of the U.S. Armed Forces WHEN: Monday, May 11th, 11 a.m. WHERE: Office of Congressman José E. Serrano, 788 Southern Blvd, Bronx, NY (corner of Southern Blvd. and Longwood Avenue) WHAT: Congressman Serrano will present the Purple Heart to Mr. Jose Velez-Valentin for wounds he received as a result of hostile actions during the Korean War. For years Mr. Velez-Valentin tried to have his official service record changed to reflect the injuries he sustained in combat. Congressman Serrano’s office helped Mr. Velez-Valentin obtain the medal from the Defense Department. Mr. Velez-Valentin is originally from Santurce, Puerto Rico, he served in the 25th Infantry Division and now resides in the Bronx. ###
04.29.2009	Welcome, Chairman Copps, to this oversight hearing on the Federal Communications Commission. The Administration is expected to submit its budget next month. When it does, we expect to be fully briefed on the FCC budget. The FCC has policy responsibilities that affect the everyday lives of all Americans. We increasingly rely on the electronic media for our news, information, entertainment, and personal communications. We use cell phones for internet searches and tweets. Internet connections are increasingly used to distribute programming traditionally on cable. The communications that we take for granted today result from decisions that the FCC made long ago. Decisions that you will make in the near future will affect both the kind of information and how we receive it for many years to come. This is a time of transition for the FCC. The White House has nominated Julius Genachowski to become the next chairman of the FCC. Mr. Genachowski served as chief counsel to the FCC chairman during the Clinton administration. In the interim, our witness today Michael Copps is serving as the acting FCC chairman. Mr. Copps is well prepared for the task. He has served on the five member board of the commission for almost eight years -- and been on the losing side of many 3 to 2 votes. On June 12, the nation is scheduled to complete the delayed transition to Digital TV. To assist with that transition, the FCC obtained $66 million from NTIA as part of the recent Economic Recovery Act. With analog signals due to end in just six weeks, we want to hear the FCC’s perspective on what it’s doing and what to expect. Another important topic before the FCC is broadband. The Recovery Act provided more than $7 billion to assist with broadband deployment in unserved and underserved communities. The Act also directed the FCC to develop a long range national strategy on broadband policy by next February. The U.S. trails many other countries in the percentage of households with basic broadband connections. A number of other countries have lower costs and faster speeds than we have. Our low income areas – particularly in central city and rural locations – have especially low broadband rates. Last September, this subcommittee held a hearing on problems that Public, Educational and Governmental – “PEG” – channels have been having with cable systems. Those problems have not gone away and new problems have arisen. A number of Members have raised concerns about the auditing procedures by the FCC’s IG on recipients of Universal Service Fund money. They claim that the audits are onerous, reduce money for universal service, and have uncovered no fraud. The last administration rarely saw a merger that it did not approve – in communications, in financial services, or any other industry. We have paid a heavy price for the mismanagement of our massive financial institutions in the last year. I’m not sure that our communications giants have served us much better. Our witness today Mr. Copps has fought to limit media concentration. Our communications systems play a vital role in our democratic society. We live in an increasingly diverse society that is finding many new and creative ways to communicate. As technology and society change, our communications policy should keep pace. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
04.24.2009	April 24, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano yesterday discussed with Attorney General Eric Holder the possibility of a new classification of hate crimes for those committed against undocumented immigrants because of their status. Serrano feels strongly that the government should expand the definition of a hate crime to include those committed because of a victim’s status. A video of the full exchange can be seen here: http://serrano.house.gov/MediaPlayer.aspx?Ver=1&ID=6 “I see in your comments and the President’s comments a desire to deal with the border, and so be it,” said Serrano. “But there’s another side to the immigration issue, and that is that immigrants are being targeted for hate crimes here in this country. It even happened – and I say even—in a city like New York which is known to be a pro-immigrant, a very tolerant city. And yet we saw people killed and abused and hurt physically. Will the Department [of Justice] in its desire to deal with the border and immigration issue also deal with the issue of hate crimes and identifying this new community, if you will, that’s included in the hate crime category?” “Yes, and one of the things we want to do is to expand the federal definition of hate crimes,” responded Attorney General Holder. “We unsuccessfully tried to do that during the Clinton Administration. We are going to try to do that again during the Obama Administration. The focus should not be on the status of the victim, but the conduct of the perpetrator. And that is what good law enforcement is all about. If a person is here inappropriately, and is nevertheless a victim of a crime, that crime is just as serious as a crime committed upon somebody who is a citizen of this country and is worthy of the attention of those of us in law enforcement. To the extent that people are being singled out because of their ethnicity, their status, that is something that deserves special attention and will get it from any Justice Department that I lead.” ###
04.23.2009	Our subject today is the Supreme Court and its appropriations request for the upcoming fiscal year. We’ll be hearing from two distinguished Justices of that Court. These annual hearings are a rare opportunity for our two branches of government to interact. Congress, of course, has constitutional responsibility over Federal spending, including appropriations for the Supreme Court and the rest of the Judiciary. Although I always have some concern about asking the Third Branch to come and testify before us about buildings, staffing levels and computers, these hearings provide an important opportunity for the nation’s highest Court to bring to light issues affecting the Judiciary, as well as to help us understand their budgetary needs. If in the process our two branches get to know one another a little better, that’s an added bonus. Meeting the needs of the Judicial Branch is a priority for this subcommittee. The courts have a vital role to play in a society like ours where the rule of law is a core principle. We need to be sure that the courts have the resources they need to dispense justice with reasonable speed and care, and with proper regard for the rights of defendants and litigants and the needs of society. At the same time we also have a responsibility to exercise due diligence in spending matters, and to balance competing needs. While appropriations for the courts are small relative to the total Federal budget, the Judicial Branch does account for more than a quarter of our modest-sized Financial Services and General Government appropriations bill. In some years, the percentage increases involved are substantial. Having said that, I should also add that we recognize and appreciate recent efforts by the Judiciary, including the Supreme Court, to exercise budgetary restraint and find ways of holding down costs. We look forward today to a discussion of the budget needs of the Supreme Court. Our witnesses are Justice Clarence Thomas and Justice Stephen Breyer. Justice Thomas was nominated to the Court in 1991 by the first President Bush, after serving as Assistant Secretary of Education for Civil Rights, Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and as a judge on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, among other positions. Justice Breyer joined the Court in 1994 as a nominee of President Clinton. The many positions he held prior to that time include professor at Harvard Law School, staff member for the Senate Judiciary Committee, and judge and then chief judge on the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. Justice Thomas has been a witness at these hearings for a number of years now, while this is Justice Breyer’s first visit to our subcommittee. Welcome to both of you, and thank you for joining us today. ###
04.22.2009	April 22, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today celebrated the 39th Earth Day and reminded people to reuse, reduce and recycle. A strong advocate for the environment, especially in the Bronx, Serrano has dedicated much of his career to fighting for environmental justice in his community. “Many times over the years, our Bronx community was told both directly and indirectly that we should not expect to live in a place with clean air, clean water, and green spaces,” said Serrano. “We rejected that notion and have worked diligently to recapture our environmental rights. As a result, we now have environmental resources that are treasured by our community. “The Bronx River is a miles-long oasis with wildlife and natural beauty in the midst of a dense urban environment. We recently saw the return of the Alewife herring three years after we released their parents in to the Bronx River. This environmental victory is very real. We are also reclaiming our waterfront from polluting industries in a way that preserves and creates jobs. We are cleaning the air in the South Bronx slowly but surely, as we help green the business activity and mitigate its emissions. “The story of the Bronx environment is one that people around the country are noticing. They look to us for a model of how to advocate for environmental justice for people of color and in low income communities. We have proven that working together, we can cause meaningful change in our neighborhoods and our environment. “With that success in mind, it is still important that we look closely at our lifestyles and make sure that we are working to lower our personal environmental impact on a daily basis. Our fight to reclaim our environment in the Bronx should not be limited to larger actions, but also extends to the daily decisions we make.” ###
04.17.2009	April 16, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today urged all Latinos, regardless of immigration status to participate fully in the 2010 Census. Recently there have been a series of statements advocating a Latino immigrant boycott of the Census, which Serrano condemned as “extremely counterproductive.” Serrano serves on the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee, which funds the Census. “These calls for a boycott of the Census by Latinos are just plain wrong, and do not serve our community’s best interest,” said Serrano. “We have worked so hard for so many years for our Latino voices to be heard, so these ideas are particularly troubling to me. The message for all Latinos across the nation – regardless of immigration status – is you must stand up and be counted. “While I understand the frustration of many Latinos over the need for immigration reform, any attempted boycott will simply be misguided. Anti-immigrant advocates have already advocated attempting to exclude undocumented immigrants from census counts and from redistricting. By excluding ourselves, we give them a victory they don’t deserve. “In addition, any type of Census boycott by Latinos will disproportionately harm Latinos, both documented and undocumented. By forcing an undercount of the Latino population, any boycott would end up hurting the Latino population. Resources and representation are apportioned to communities by population as recorded by the census, so a census boycott would only serve to strip funding and political power from our communities. We need more Latino representation in all levels of government—but the ability to do that ultimately comes from high numbers of Latinos accurately filling out Census forms. “I can remember that prior to the 1990 Census, the Catholic Church urged undocumented immigrants not to participate in the Census. In the subsequent 10 years the Church realized the harm that this had caused, and they had no such message for Latinos in 2000. I hope that those advocating a boycott of the 2010 Census by Latinos take less time than that to figure out the true harm that would be caused. “Our community needs all the support that it can get. We do that by taking part in the civic duties of the United States. If you are undocumented, you should be showing that you want to take part in all the rights and duties that a citizen would. Sending a message that you only want the benefits is the wrong idea. It is extremely counterproductive to our efforts to bring comprehensive immigration reform.” ###
04.16.2009	April 16, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano joined Governor Paterson and other elected officials today as the Governor unveiled his same-sex marriage proposal for New York State, saying Paterson’s actions were “a move toward guaranteeing equality for all.” “Governor Paterson took a bold step today as he pushed for New York State to join others in the nation in legalizing same-sex marriage,” said Serrano. “I applaud him for moving forward on this important issue of equality, one in which New York is lagging behind. Our friends and family-members in the lesbian and gay community deserve the same rights in all areas of the law as other couples. Marriage has many benefits, and we should not deny them to couples who are in loving, committed relationships.” “Along with the Governor, I call on the New York State legislature to pass this bill without delay, and provide marriage equality for all New Yorkers. New York needs to lead on this issue, and the longer we delay, the further behind we fall. I look forward to attending a signing ceremony for this bill and applauding all those involved for guaranteeing that there are not second-class citizens in our state.” ###
04.08.2009	April 8, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano announced today that the first herring had returned to spawn in the Bronx River after three years out at sea. Serrano helped reintroduce the alewife herring into the Bronx River in March, 2006. [Photo of the first herring below] “Today we received news that our reintroduction of alewife herring to the Bronx River, after they had been gone for hundreds of years, was a success,” said Serrano. “The returning herring that was caught and released shows that our efforts over these many years to return the Bronx River to health have worked. It’s a great day for the Bronx environment. “Three years ago, when we released those first herring into the Bronx River, I said that it was a symbol of rebirth. Today is perhaps more poignant, as we have creatures that were literally born and raised in the river returning to start a new generation. The rebirth is now real as it is happening independent of human intervention. “Thanks to the hard work of our dedicated Parks scientists and community partners, we discovered fish returning to spawn a next generation – another great sign of the renaissance of the Bronx River,” said Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe. “Around the City, as one of the central initiatives of PlaNYC, we are opening up more of our waterfront to the public and restoring ecosystems to welcome long-absent species.” “I was at an event this morning announcing a plan to plant hundreds of trees for future generations to enjoy across the city," added Congressman Serrano. "What a fateful coincidence that the fish we planted in our river came back on the same day. They are now implanted in our river for future generations to enjoy. “The revitalized Bronx River is a symbol for the Bronx itself. We have worked over the past decades to rebuild and revitalize the borough, and each day it seems, we receive word of a new success story. We have come a long way, just like those little fish that we put in our river three years ago.” The first returning Bronx River Alewife Herring[Photo courtesy of Anthony Archino, Rocking the Boat] The Rocking the Boat Job Skills Apprentices who found the first Alewife Herring along with NYCity Parks and Rocking the Boat staff were: Joshua Santana, 16; Shaquoia Gulley, 17; Marcus Caceres, 17; and Ashley Quiles, 17. ###
04.07.2009	April 6, 2009 – Washington DC – Congressman José E. Serrano today congratulated the Obama Administration on deciding to lift the ban on Cuba family travel and remittances, cementing the changes Serrano had made in the 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill. Serrano called the changes “the humane and right thing to do” but also called on the Administration to extend the right to travel to all Americans. “I was pleased to learn that the changes to the inhumane restrictions on family travel we lifted in my section of the Omnibus bill will be validated and reinforced by the Administration,” said Serrano. “We felt that this family-travel ban was really the most onerous of the Bush era restrictions, and clearly the White House agrees. “Now it is time to overturn the rest of the Bush era restrictions. For instance, keeping students from traveling with professors to study in Cuba clearly serves little purpose. Interpreting the legal trade rules in such a way as to choke off trade is hardly productive. But above all, preventing all Americans from traveling at their discretion is un-American, and must end. “In short, it’s high time the embargo ended. I would accept steps in that direction in the interim, but we must be firm and clear that the all failed Cuba policies of the past six decades will end. “I applaud the Obama Administration for listening to the will of the American people and Congress, and deciding to end the awful family travel ban. Now I join my colleagues and the American people in asking that the full travel ban be lifted.”###
04.02.2009	March 31, 2009 – Washington DC – Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Puerto Rico Quarter would officially enter circulation today, with 139 million quarters being issued and entering into circulation across the nation. “I want to share my excitement about the Puerto Rico Quarter entering circulation today,” said Congressman Serrano. “It is a proud moment for Puerto Ricans living on the island and all over the United States.” “In 2006 I became Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the U.S. Mint. In this role, I was able to insert a provision in my annual spending bill ordering the U.S. Mint to issue a series of quarters for the U.S. Territories and D.C. Puerto Rico’s quarter is part of this series. The quarter is particularly special to me because I believe that all U.S. Territories and D.C. should be treated in the same way as the 50 States. “Puerto Rico's participation in the program is a small step towards honoring all Puerto Ricans for their contributions. The United States would not be what it is today without the contributions of Puerto Ricans in areas such as national defense, the arts, sports and science. Furthermore, Puerto Rico's participation in the Quarters Program will raise national awareness about the island and also offers all Puerto Ricans the opportunity to embrace their culture and history. “The design which Puerto Ricans chose for this quarter is reflective of our island’s identity and history. I truly believe that this quarter will inspire Americans to ask why the hibiscus flower? What is the importance of the sentry box? What does “Isla del Encanto” mean? These questions will encourage all Americans to learn more about Puerto Rico and its relationship to the United States. “I look forward to seeing the Puerto Rico quarter in circulation all over our great nation.” A high resolution image of the quarter: http://www.usmint.gov/downloads/pressroom/2009PRProof.jpg Facts about the Puerto Rico quarter: http://www.usmint.gov/mint_programs/DCAndTerritories/index.cfm?action=dcterritories&local=PR Facts about the D.C. and Territorial Quarters Program: http://www.usmint.gov/mint_programs/DCAndTerritories/index.cfm?action=progBackground
04.01.2009	April 1, 2009 -- Congressman José E. Serrano today announced the $219 million in projects that the General Services Administration would be carrying out as part of the Economic Recovery Package in federal buildings in New York City. Serrano chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee which oversees the budget of the GSA, and worked to include the $5.5 billion in funds for GSA projects in the Economic Recovery package. “I am pleased to announce these vital upgrades to federal buildings in our city,” said Congressman Serrano. “Each of these projects represents a large investment in a more clean, energy efficient federal building, but perhaps more importantly, each will generate many jobs for New Yorkers. I have been assured by the GSA that these projects will be underway within no more than 120 days and that they have been carefully vetted to make sure that they are some of the most worthwhile investments in the nation. New Yorkers will see the benefits of these projects in the short and long term.” The following is a description of the type of project, and a list of the New York City projects and funding.High Performance Green Building Modernizations – Full and Partial Building Modernizations (Upgrading large scale building features to emphasize energy conservation and renewable energy generation) Emanuel Celler U.S. Courthouse (Brooklyn) $8.2 million 26 Federal Plaza (Manhattan) $16.2 million Thurgood Marshall U.S. Courthouse (Manhattan) $64 million High Performance Green Building Limited Scope(Upgrading specific building features to increase energy efficiency) Brooklyn General Post Office (Brooklyn) $107 million Federal Building—201 Varick St. (Manhattan) $9.8 million Alexander Hamilton US Customs House (Manhattan) $1.8 million Queens Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building (Queens) $11.2 million Daniel P. Moynihan U.S. Courthouse (Manhattan) $1.2 million Kings U.S. Courthouse (Brooklyn) $4 million ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
04.01.2009	April 1, 2009 – Congressman José E. Serrano today said he was pleased to learn of some of the big ticket transportation items in the Economic Recovery Act will be funding projects in the 16th Congressional District. Many of his long-time priorities will be addressed in the Hunts Point and Port Morris communities, as well as several other projects. “I am particularly pleased to hear that many of the projects that I have championed over the past decade in The Bronx will be getting a big boost from the Economic Recovery Act,” said Serrano. “Funding improvements in Hunts Point and Port Morris to the tune of $48 million is music to my ears. Between the build out of the South Bronx Greenway, the completion of the bike and pedestrian path to Randall’s Island, improvements to the Hunts Point waterfront, and upgrades to the area around the food distribution center, it seems that many of the projects I have supported over the years have been greatly enhanced by these additional funds. I’m very pleased. “There will also be street repairs throughout the Bronx, as well as lead paint mitigation on the Bruckner. All these projects will benefit us all both through the investment in our neighborhoods and also through the jobs that they will create. I applaud the City DOT for including these vital projects in their funding priorities.” For a breakdown of the City’s economic recovery transportation projects please visit: http://www.nyc.gov/html/ops/nycstim/downloads/pdf/transportation_project_funds_allocated.pdf ###
03.20.2009	March 20, 2009 – Washington, DC – This afternoon, Congressman José E. Serrano received confirmation from the Navy’s Congressional Relations office that the Navy has no intention of reopening Vieques as a training range. “I am pleased to hear that the Navy has no plans to return to Vieques,” said Serrano. “The people of Vieques have suffered enough. I am glad that the Navy now realizes the harm that has been caused, and agrees that this painful chapter in the history of Puerto Rico must remain closed.” ###
03.20.2009	March 20, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement concerning rumors that the military may return to Vieques: “I am totally opposed to any efforts on the part of the Department of Defense to return to Vieques and use the island as a training base. We all know the difficult history of hardship that the people of Vieques have had to deal with because of the U.S. Navy presence there. Although it was long overdue, the Navy did the right thing in leaving the island. There is absolutely no reason for them to return. The people of Vieques are against this and the people of Puerto Rico are against this; the Navy should respect the will of the people who would be most affected by any change. “I will strongly oppose any efforts that are made to encourage renewed military use of Vieques. Any steps in this direction are absolutely unacceptable, and I will do everything in my power to make sure it does not occur.” ###
03.19.2009	Today we will hear testimony on the fiscal year 2010 budget request of the Federal Judiciary. The Judiciary, as an independent branch of government, submits its funding request directly to Congress rather than going through the Office of Management and Budget. Therefore, we already have their budget proposals for 2010 and can hold this hearing, even though the President’s budget will not arrive until next month. The independent Federal Judiciary plays an important role in our constitutional system. Like other government institutions, the Judiciary needs sufficient resources to properly function and perform its constitutional duties. This subcommittee has made it a priority to try to ensure sufficient funding for the proper functioning of the courts and the related functions included in the judicial budget, such as probation and pre-trial services and public defenders. For fiscal year 2010, the Judiciary is requesting $6.6 billion in discretionary funding, an increase of more than $500 million above fiscal year 2009. I look forward to discussion of this request today. Joining us to testify in support of the Judiciary’s budget request is Judge Julia Gibbons of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Since 2004, Judge Gibbons has also served as Chair of the Budget Committee of the Judicial Conference. Judge Gibbons has testified before this subcommittee for the last few years and we are pleased to have her here again today. Also appearing before the subcommittee today is James Duff, the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. Mr. Duff was appointed to this position in 2006 by Chief Justice John Roberts. In the late 1990s he served for four years as Administrative Assistant and Chief of Staff to Chief Justice William Rehnquist. We welcome you both today, and we very much look forward to hearing from you about the resource needs of the Federal Judiciary. ###
03.18.2009	Washington DC – March 18, 2009 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he had approved the SEC request to reprogram resources in order to close its funding gap. The SEC asked for permission to spend $17 million in unused prior year funding to avoid cutbacks in a variety of areas including staffing and technology investments. The full text of Serrano’s approval letter follows. “The SEC has too much important work to worry about cutbacks in personnel or technology,” said Congressman Serrano, who chairs the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee. “When Chairman Schapiro asked for the approval to draw on funds that would have otherwise gone unused, I saw this as a valuable opportunity to continue cleaning up the financial services sector. With these additional resources, I expect that the SEC will step up examination and enforcement activities. I look forward to working with Chairman Schapiro to ensure that the FY2010 funding is adequate to the needs of this vital agency.” *** March 17, 2009 Hon. Mary L. SchapiroChairmanSecurities and Exchange Commission100 F Street N.E.Washington, DC 20549 Dear Madam Chairman: I am writing in response to your letter of March 5, requesting approval of a proposed reprogramming that would allow the Securities and Exchange Commission to make use of $17 million in unobligated balances from previous fiscal years. Your letter indicates that the $17 million would come from deobligated funds. Of that total, $9.0 million would be used to avoid potential cutbacks in areas such as staffing levels and technology investments, $1.4 million would be used to add approximately 8 FTE and 50 positions (primarily in areas of enforcement, examinations, and risk assessment), and $6.6 million would be used to support information technology initiatives. Your letter also notes that the proposed additional positions would be fully supported under the President’s budget request for fiscal year 2010. These proposals appear appropriate and reasonable, and the subcommittee is supportive of efforts to provide the SEC with the resources it needs to carry out its high priority regulatory and enforcement responsibilities. Accordingly, your reprogramming request is approved. Sincerely, José E. SerranoChairmanSubcommittee on Financial Services and General Government ###
03.12.2009	New Regulations Issued Immediately Easing Restrictions March 12, 2009 – Washington DC – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the omnibus language he authored easing travel restrictions on Cuban-Americans’ family visits to Cuba had been implemented. In coming weeks, new agricultural and medical sales travel license guidelines will be issued as his language also directed. “I’m very pleased to see the immediate implementation of the changes my section of the Omnibus bill ordered to loosen restrictions on family travel for Cuban-Americans,” said Congressman Serrano. “There can now be no doubt that the days when the U.S. government tells Cuban-Americans they cannot see their families are over. That is a welcome change, and a move towards a humane and rational travel policy.” The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control issued the following guidance last night after the bill was signed: Office of Foreign Assets Control http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/actions/20090311.shtml 3/11/2009 The Office of Foreign Assets Control has issued and posted on its website a general license for visits to close relatives in Cuba in response to section 621 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009. This general license reinstates the authorization for family travel to Cuba that existed prior to the June 16, 2004 amendments to sections 515.560 and 515.561 of 31 CFR chapter V. It authorizes persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to travel to Cuba to visit close relatives for an unlimited period of time once every 12 months and to engage in travel-related transactions at the "maximum per diem rate" in effect at the time of travel, as established by the State Department. For more information, please visit OFAC's Guidance On Implementation Of Cuba Travel And Trade-Related Provisions Of The Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009###
03.11.2009	I welcome you to this hearing of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee. Today the subcommittee will hear testimony from the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Honorable Mary Schapiro. Chairman Schapiro was nominated by President Obama, unanimously confirmed by the Senate, and sworn into office on January 27, 2009. Chairman Schapiro, I congratulate you on your appointment and I welcome you to this hearing. The SEC plays an essential role in our economy by protecting the public through enforcement of our securities laws. Given this important mission, I am troubled by reports that an environment of lax oversight and enforcement at the Commission was a contributing factor in the financial crisis now facing the country. For example, investment banks were allowed to become over-extended which lead to the eventual collapse of three of Wall Street’s largest banks, a major Ponzi scheme went undetected causing 50 billion dollars in investor loses, and the SEC started then stopped an investigation into fraud allegations of a financial services company in Texas. Investor losses in that case are now believed to exceed 8 billion dollars. Which brings us to today’s hearing. The purpose of today’s hearing is two-fold. First, I am interested in hearing more about the lessons the SEC has learned from the experience leading up to and during this financial crisis. We are in the midst of the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression 80 years ago and it is important to fully understand how we got here and how to avoid repeating past mistakes. Second, looking forward, I would like to hear more about your ideas regarding government-wide regulatory reform and what principles you believe should govern that reform. I would also like to hear more about your priorities at the Commission, particularly your plans to rebuild the Commission’s oversight, inspection, and enforcement capabilities. I know you have an ambitious agenda of changes you are working to implement and I look forward to hearing more about them in your testimony. This Subcommittee stands ready to assist the Commission as it moves forward under your leadership. I would note that in the just completed FY 2009 omnibus appropriations bill, the Subcommittee provided the Commission with an additional 30 million dollars above the request level to enhance oversight, inspection, and enforcement activities and for management initiatives. Chairman Schapiro, for the upcoming FY 2010 budget cycle I ask that you work closely with the Subcommittee to advise us of your resource needs. We live in difficult economic times. Commercial banks are failing every week, unemployment is up sharply, and home foreclosures are mounting. Confidence in our credit rating agencies is sinking, and evidence of major securities fraud is growing. We need to restore the health of our financial system to put us on a path to economic recovery. To accomplish this, we need an SEC that is equipped to handle the regulatory challenges of the 21st century. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
03.10.2009	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on SEC Actions Relating to the Financial Crisis, Wednesday, March 11, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witness: Mary SchapiroChairman Securities and Exchange Commission ###
03.10.2009	Washington, DC — March 10, 2009 – Congressman José E. Serrano today commented on press reports that the Treasury Department would narrowly interpret his Cuba policy provisions in the Omnibus Appropriations bill, saying that the provisions were “not subject to creative interpretation” because they have “the force of law.” “I recently read press reports that the Treasury Department was assuring certain Senators that it would narrowly interpret the Cuba policy provisions that were in the Financial Services section of the Omnibus appropriations bill. I want to assure Cuban Americans who have been waiting to see their relatives, and agricultural businesses hoping to travel to Cuba to sell their products, that the language is not ambiguous and not subject to interpretation. When the Congress passed the bill, and President Obama signs it into law, there is no room for interpretation on the part of the Treasury Department as to how they will implement it. It is crystal clear and is law. “In the Bush Administration, we would often see Congressional intent undermined by signing statements and creative or negligent implementation. That situation is now behind us, as President Obama basically said in his directive to agency heads on signing statements. I am troubled that the Treasury Department would seek to alleviate the policy concerns of a Senator or two by essentially promising to interpret a portion of the law a certain way. That smacks of the old style of business that we are trying to put behind us. “If these provisions are interpreted contrary to the intent of the Appropriations Committee, where this bill originated, the Treasury Department will have to answer to the Committee in a public forum. With its inclusion, our intent becomes law, and if anyone should be getting assurances about its implementation in advance, it should be us, not those who disagree with it. “If Treasury has any questions or concerns about these provisions, I stand ready to answer and help them understand. Otherwise, I expect the provisions to be implemented as written.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He chairs the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the Treasury Department, among other agencies.
03.06.2009	Washington, DC — March 6, 2009 – Congressman José E. Serrano today hailed the IRS decision to end the inefficient private debt collection program. Serrano has long contended that the program was flawed and had included language in the fiscal year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill that would have ended the program. An IRS report released yesterday before the decision supported Serrano’s claims as it found that when compared with IRS in-house collection efforts, the private debt collection program collected less money per case, closed fewer cases, and had a higher cost. “I have always said that the IRS should handle 100% of its enforcement services in house, rather than contracting out for a fee to private debt collectors,” said Serrano, who chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the IRS’s budget. “Yesterday we received proof on multiple levels that this outsourcing is not a good deal for taxpayers. Based on that information, the IRS has made the right decision in ending this program. They have come to the correct conclusion that this work can be done in house more cheaply, more efficiently, and with a greater return per case.” ###
02.28.2009	February 28, 2009 – Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano helped cut the ribbon today for the new Bronx Project of the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights. Serrano presented a check for $300,000 to the group last week to fund the project, which will provide services to immigrants seeking citizenship in the Bronx. “As we are cutting the ribbon on the new program to aid immigrants in the Bronx, we are building on the success of the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, and bringing their services to a community in need,” said Congressman Serrano. “I was pleased to fund this project and appreciate being part of the opening of this new center. “I am confident that the Democratic Congress working with the Obama administration will be able to reform the immigration system. As we see from the demand for services from organizations like the NMCIR, the current system fails too many people. It fails them not because they are unworthy or unwilling to work through the many obstacles, but it fails them because the system itself does not favor the rights of immigrants. “I look forward to hearing the success stories from this new center as they help immigrants move to citizenship and full participation in our nation. The NMCIR is a friend to immigrants, and therefore is a friend of mine.” # # #
02.25.2009	February 25, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano announced that his provisions loosening restrictions on Cuban American family travel were included in the FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill that passed the House today. Serrano chairs the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the Treasury Department, enforcer of the Cuba travel ban. “Today, in an act of compassion, the House voted in favor of allowing Cuban Americans to visit their families,” said Congressman Serrano. “The Bush Administration tightened the limits on family travel to a degree that virtually no one could support and maintained it in the face of strong opposition. This change has been a long time coming.” Serrano’s language will allow Cuban Americans to: Visit once per year for as long as they choose; Visit cousins, nieces, nephews, aunts, and uncles, in addition to parents, grandparents, children and siblings; Spend up to $179 per day while in Cuba The language also eased restrictions on travel for the sale of agricultural goods, and reversed the “cash-before-shipping” restrictions of the Bush years. “Families and farmers will be happy with the changes that the House passed today,” added Serrano. “But all Americans should feel proud that the legislative body that should most closely represent them took a step toward the easing of the unpopular Cuba embargo. More importantly, they should be proud because we removed inhumane restrictions on separated families.” ###
02.25.2009	February 25, 2009 – Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano reacted to President Barack Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress last night, calling the speech “both moving and sobering.” “Last night’s speech reminded us why we are Americans, and that we will have to work together to climb out of this economic hole our nation is in,” said Serrano. “I found his words to be stirring and realistic at the same time. We face many challenges, and the road ahead is not easy. However, as a nation we have faced down many challenges before and we will not let petty disagreements derail our progress in solving this one. “I commend President Obama for yet again speaking to the nation with a clear voice about the problems we face. It is refreshing to have a President who does not seek to give us the easy answers all the time, but instead calls for us to work together to fix our problems. “I look forward to working with President Obama on many of his legislative proposals. When his budget comes out later this week, I am sure it will build on his campaign message of hope and change as well as last night’s message of responsibility. “It is fitting that last night’s address came during Black History Month. President Obama’s story alone reminds us that our nation is always capable of breaking boundaries and overcoming historic barriers. I applaud him for his achievements and look forward to working with him in the coming session.” ###
02.24.2009	February 23, 2009 – Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today announced a series of grants for Supportive Housing Program organizations in the 16th Congressional District of The Bronx given through the Housing and Urban Development Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance Program. “I am so pleased to announce these grants, which will enable these great local organizations to continue to provide their excellent services to some of our homeless and transitioning neighbors,” said Serrano. “As we help people in need to access housing and supportive services, we are giving them a chance to begin to move toward productive, rewarding lives. I congratulate these organizations for their great work.” Recipient Amount Argus Community, Inc./Argus IV/New Leaf/ACT 1 $370,278 Argus Community, Inc./Harbor House $430,101 Argus Community, Inc./Harbor House Expansion/New Leaf $371,322 Banana Kelly Improvement Assoc. Inc/ Rental Assistance Program $386,525 Basics, Inc./Franklin Avenue House $353,208 Citizens Advice Bureau/Harm Reduction $105,000 Citizens Advice Bureau/The Living Room $1,202,514 H.O.M.E.E. Clinic, Inc./Ilene R. Smith SRO-SHP $131,936 United Bronx Parents, Inc./La Casita $419,528 University Consultation & Treatment Center for Mental Hygiene/The Ehrlich Residence $244,988 Vocational Instruction Project Community Services, Inc./Abraham Apartments $90,017 Vocational Instruction Project Community Services, Inc./Casa Banome $278,854 Vocational Instruction Project Community Services, Inc./Crotona SRO $227,666 ###
02.24.2009	Washington, DC — February 23, 2009 – Congressman José E. Serrano today highlighted some of the key sections of his subcommittee’s portion of the FY2009 Omnibus Appropriation bill. Serrano chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government. His section of the omnibus bill appropriates $22.7 billion in discretionary funding and another $20.7 billion in mandatory funding for a total $43.4 billion. The funding is spread across more than 25 departments and agencies, including the Department of the Treasury, the Executive Office of the President, the federal Judiciary, the District of Columbia, the General Services Administration, the Small Business Administration, and others. “This section of the bill provides important funding to ensure that the federal government is more responsive to the needs of the people, and increases resources to make sure that the agencies under this section are able to perform their important oversight roles with regard to the operation of our banks and of Wall Street,” said Serrano. “In the important area of financial sector oversight, we have ensured increases in funding over last year’s level for Treasury’s Departmental offices and Inspector General. There is also a $37 million increase over the FY 2008 level for the Securities and Exchange Commission, allowing it to increase its oversight of the troubled markets. “As the current banking and housing crisis has made clear, the Federal Government needs to do a much better job of oversight regarding Wall Street and the banking industry. These funding increases are a down payment on that effort. “In an effort to better protect America’s consumers, we provided $25.4 million above the FY 2008 level for the Consumer Product Safety Commission. This represents a 31.7 percent increase over the previous fiscal year. “We also need to protect our consumers in the area of financial products, such as mortgages and consumer loans. In an effort to address these concerns, the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund will receive $107 million, which will help to expand the availability of credit, capital and financial services to underserved communities throughout the nation, including those particularly hard hit by the credit crisis. The Federal Trade Commission will also receive increased funding for investigation and enforcement in the financial services area, including subprime lending investigations. “In the current economic climate, our small businesses continue to play an important role, and $612 million is included for the Small Business Administration. “This bill also contains some important policy provisions, such as a moratorium on new competitive sourcing, or A-76, activities, and a prohibition on funds being used to support the IRS private debt collection program. We have also eased restrictions on travel to Cuba for Americans who have family members still living on the island.” Below is a more complete summary of this section of the bill from the full Committee. The bill text can be found at http://www.rules.house.gov/111/LegText/111_omni2009.htm. *** SUMMARY: 2009 FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS BILL Bill Total 2008 Enacted: $20.7 billion Bush Request: $22.3 billion 2009 Bill: $22.7 billion KEY INVESTMENTS NEEDS OF AN ECONOMY IN CRISIS Strengthening Oversight and Enforcement at Consumer Protection and Regulatory Agencies · Consumer Product Safety Commission: $105 million, $25 million above 2008, building on a 27.5% increase in 2008, to keep unsafe products from the marketplace. · Securities and Exchange Commission: $943 million, $37 million above 2008, to enhance enforcement, oversight, and investor protections. · Federal Trade Commission: $259.2 million, $15 million above 2008, to protect consumers, including investigations into sub-prime lending, identity theft, and anti-competitive practices. Small Business Assistance: $110 million for Small Business Development Centers, $12.9 million above 2008, to provide free or low-cost management assistance to small businesses that are customized to local conditions and $22.5 million for small business microloans, $5.5 million above 2008, to provide loan subsidy and technical assistance to entrepreneurs. Community Development Financial Institutions: $107 million, $13 million above 2008, for economic development and low-cost financial services in underserved communities. On average, each dollar invested in the CDFI Fund leverages $19 for housing and microbusiness loans, community development banks, and other economic development efforts. Financial Education: $1.6 million, $500,000 above 2008, for Treasury’s Office of Financial Education to help Americans make smart financial choices with initiatives in schools and efforts to combat predatory lending. Election Reform: $106 million, for grants to help states ensure reliable, accurate, and accessible elections, including $100 million to help states meet the requirements of the Help America Vote Act and $5 million for research into voting systems for voters with disabilities. IMPROVING SERVICES FOR TAXPAYERS AND CATCHING TAX CHEATS Improving Services for Taxpayers: $2.3 billion, $143 million above 2008. · IRS Pre-filing Services: $38 million increase to educate taxpayers about their rights and obligations before they file, improving the IRS 1-800 help line and assisting taxpayers at IRS walk-in sites around the country. · IRS Taxpayer Advocate: $193 million, $16 million above 2008, to help individuals solve ongoing tax problems with the IRS. From 2004 to 2006, the service’s caseload rose 43% while its staff declined by 7%, resulting in long delays for taxpayers needing help. · Tax Counseling for the Elderly: $5.1 million, $2.1 million above 2008, for grants to organizations that provide free tax preparation services for seniors. · Low-Income Taxpayer Clinics: $9.5 million, $500,000 above 2008, for grants to help provide legal representation for low-income taxpayers involved in disputes with the IRS. Closing the Tax Gap: An estimated $290 billion in taxes owed go unpaid every year, leaving responsible taxpayers stuck paying for tax cheats. · Enforcement: $5.1 billion, $337 million above 2008, to catch tax cheats through audits, collection efforts, and improved technology. · Business Systems Modernization: $230 million to improve IRS efficiency and accuracy by updating outdated computer systems. STRENGTHENING NATIONAL SECURITY AND THE WAR ON DRUGS · Treasury’s Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence: $62 million, $5.3 million above 2008, to track terrorist financing, support economic sanctions against terrorist networks, and reduce the backlog of Freedom of Information Act requests at the Office of Foreign Assets Control. · Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN): $91.5 million, $5.6 million above 2008, to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, coordinate financial crimes enforcement efforts with other countries, and make security improvements at FinCEN headquarters. · Office of National Drug Control Policy: $439 million, $17 million above 2008, to reduce illicit drug use, manufacturing, and trafficking, drug-related crime and violence, and drug-related health consequences. · High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas: $234 million, $4 million above 2008, to coordinate state, local and federal efforts to fight drugs and support these efforts with equipment and technology. · Drug-free Communities Grants: $90 million, the same as 2008, to support over 700 drug-free community coalitions across the United States in identifying and responding to local substance abuse problems. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA · Assisting District of Columbia Students: $109 million, $35 million above 2008, to support D.C. students including: $35 million for college tuition support, $54 million for school improvements, and a one-time payment of $20 million to improve the District’s public school system. · Supporting the DC Criminal Justice System: $540 million, $45 million above 2008, to support DC Courts, the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency, and the Public Defender Service. · National Events: $39 million, to compensate the District government for security costs of National events including the Presidential Inauguration. SUPPORTING THE JUDICIAL BRANCH: $6.5 billion, $235 million over 2008. · Defender Services: $849 million, $14 million above 2008, to increase the rate for attorneys for indigent clients from $100 to $110 per hour, because every American needs quality legal representation. · Judges Pay: Includes a cost of living adjustment. General Services Administration: $8.4 billion for the Federal Buildings Fund, including $746 million for new construction and $692 million for repairs and alterations of Federal buildings. National Archives and Records Administration: $330.3 million, $15 million above 2008, to prevent a cut in public research hours and to process its backlog of Presidential records requests. OTHER IMPORTANT POLICY PROVISIONS Cuba: Language in the bill: allows visits to immediate family members in Cuba once a year, instead of only once every three years; expands the definition of “close relative” for purposes of travel; and reverses the Bush Administration’s 2005 regulatory impediments on the sales of food and medicine to Cuba. Public-Private Competitions: Includes a moratorium on new competitive sourcing activities until the new Administration has an opportunity to implement federal workforce policies. Restricts replacing federal employees with contractors and requires agencies to establish guidelines for insourcing new functions and functions currently being performed by contractors. Private Debt Collection: Prohibits the IRS from contracting out debt collection as the IRS can perform the same function at less cost and with better safeguards for taxpayers. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990.
02.23.2009	February 23, 2009 – Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano today presented a check for $300,000 to the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights to fund their new Bronx project. The project will provide services to immigrants seeking citizenship in the Bronx. “Today we are kicking off a new program to help immigrants in the Bronx navigate the often complicated path to citizenship,” said Congressman Serrano. “I think highly of the work done by the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, and I’m pleased to fund their new efforts to serve the people of the Bronx. “Immigrants often find themselves marginalized and without options. This is unacceptable. As we in Congress work to pass a comprehensive immigration reform package, we must provide help to people wading through the current broken system. “I firmly believe that through immigrant assistance programs like those run by NMCIR, we create the happy, stable and prosperous families of new citizens that New York has always relied upon.” # # #
02.20.2009	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Raquel Batista, Executive Director, Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights WHEN: Monday, February 23rd at 10 a.m. WHERE: Bronx Office of Congressman Serrano, 788 Southern Blvd, Bronx, NY 10455 WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will present a check to the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights as they kick off their new “Bronx Project.” The new project will provide services to immigrants seeking citizenship in the Bronx. The Bronx is home to a large and underserved immigrant population, which will be directly helped by this new program. ###
02.20.2009	February 20, 2009 – Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano today honored two outstanding local leaders in their annual celebration of Black History Month. The honorees were Angela E. Randall, who served 37 years at the Hunts Point Multi-Service Center, providing thousands of children with quality and affordable healthcare; and Dr. Neville A. Parker who won awards for his work in urban planning—most recently as Director of the CUNY Institute for Transportation Systems “I can think of no better way to celebrate Black History Month than to honor these two outstanding citizens,” said Congressman Serrano. “Their work in their respective fields exemplifies the meaning of the word service. I salute them both. As we celebrate their achievements we are also still celebrating the great step forward our nation took this year, in electing our first African-American president. Our national journey on race continues, but we have surely matured a great deal since the civil rights movement a few short decades ago.” "Though we celebrate Black History Month just once a year, leaders like Ms. Randall and Dr. Neville are making contributions every day," said Senator Serrano. "The families I represent in Manhattan and the Bronx are living a better life and breathing cleaner air thanks to our two honorees." The event also featured a spoken word performance by Charles Thompson, Sr., representing Palladia Star Hill, a residential treatment program in the Bronx. Mr. Thompson, who was the 2008 OASAS Annual Recovery Fine Arts Festival Winner, delivered his poem, "My People as a Power." # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. Senator José M. Serrano represents the 28th State Senate District, which includes neighborhoods in the South Bronx, East Harlem, Yorkville, and Roosevelt Island.
02.19.2009	February 19, 2009 – The Bronx, NY – Congressman José E. Serrano expressed anger today regarding a controversial cartoon published in the New York Post yesterday. The image depicts a policeman who has just shot a chimpanzee turning to his colleague and saying ‘They’ll have to find someone else to write the next stimulus bill.’ “The cartoon that the New York Post chose to run yesterday is both disturbing and demeaning,” said Serrano. “The connotations of the drawing recall a much darker period in American history- where African-Americans and others were denigrated based on harmful and disgusting stereotypes. Regardless of whether this connection was made wittingly or unwittingly, that this drawing went to print shows a shocking lack of sensitivity to the history of these types of images. “The Post should immediately retract the cartoon, and apologize to all New Yorkers for letting something like this go to print. America has thankfully been able to move away from this type of stereotype- it is time for the New York Post to do so as well.” ###
02.19.2009	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Senator José M. Serrano, Dr. Neville Parker and Mrs. Angela Randall WHEN: Friday, February 20th at 11 am WHERE: Bronx Office of Congressman Serrano, 788 Southern Blvd, Bronx, NY 10455 WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano and NY State Senator José M. Serrano will honor local notables, Dr. Neville Parker and Angela Randall as part of their annual celebration of Black History Month. Dr. Parker is an internationally-renowned scientist and a leading advocate for minority participation in the sciences. He is also a leading expert on smart urban planning. Mrs. Randall was the first Director of the Family Day Care Program at the Hunts Point Multi Service Center. She has spent a lifetime empowering ordinary citizens to make significant contributions to their community. ###
02.13.2009	Congressman José E. Serrano released a study today showing that the Department of Homeland Security has deported more than 100,000 parents of children who are U.S. citizens. The report, which Serrano asked DHS to produce, also showed that this number could be higher if records were more complete. “I am saddened, but not surprised to learn that our government, in its harsh anti-immigrant stance, has split hundreds of thousands of families apart over the past decade,” Serrano said. “Over the years, I have said many times that our current deportation regime is inhumane and un-American. Now we have direct proof that this is the case.” Serrano has introduced the Child Citizen Protection Act, H.R. 182, which would untie the hands of immigration judges to take family situations into account during deportation proceedings. Currently, an immigration judge cannot balance family unity against deportation requirements. In many cases, this has led to one or both parents of child citizens being deported; forcing them to either leave the child behind or take the child to a country he or she never knew. The DHS report said that between 1998 and 2007, the United States conducted 2,199,138 alien removals, and according to the data, 108,434 of those aliens were parents of U.S. citizen children. DHS was unable to produce all the data Serrano asked for, because it does not have adequate data. Serrano asked for information on when both parents were removed, length of time the immigrant parent had been in the country before removal, and how many of the citizen children stayed behind when one or both parents were deported. “Today’s report is the first step towards putting a stop to the inhumane deportation practices of our government,” Serrano added. “I have trouble believing that any American would support their government breaking up families, or orphaning children. In essence, we know that this has happened at least 108,434 times. The citizens in those cases, the children, deserved better than to have their government send their parents away without regard to their welfare. America can do better.” “As we move towards comprehensive immigration reform, I will be working to ensure that this data is not overlooked, and these stories are not lost. We must bring our government’s policies in line with our values, which do not include breaking families apart.” The full DHS report can be found at: http://www.dhs.gov/xoig/assets/mgmtrpts/OIG_09-15_Jan09.pdf Serrano’s bill can be found at http://www.thomas.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d111:h.r.00182: ###
02.12.2009	February 12, 2009 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the details of the final American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, outlining the estimated benefit to New York State and to Serrano’s district in the Bronx. Serrano called the package a “bold move” that should help jolt the economy back to life. “I am glad that much of the important funding in my section of this bill remained in the final agreement, including the portions that will help small businesses and those that will begin to ‘green’ our federal buildings,” Serrano said. “More importantly than those large picture items, however, is the 215,000 jobs the White House estimates this bill will create or preserve in New York, including 7,500 jobs in my Congressional District in the Bronx. This focus on jobs is the change that Obama promised and that Congress is helping to deliver. “New Yorkers voted for a change in direction in November. They understood that the economy was rapidly deteriorating then, and needed the government to step in where the private sector was unable to help. Despite the opposition’s claims, the bill we will pass later this week is focused directly on that task. The 215,000 New Yorkers that will stay at work, or get a new job as a result of this bill will understand that we did the right thing in putting this package together. The 7,500 jobs in the Bronx will keep many families afloat. This is a good thing. “I am sensitive to the criticisms of the bill, but I do not believe they have merit. Having authored a section of it, I can say with certainty that this is solely a jobs-creation and jobs-preservation package. We spent hours analyzing our portion and ensuring that it was not wasteful spending, but was in fact, job creation based on investments in our national infrastructure and the long-term economic health of our nation. “Greening the federal buildings was a priority of mine, and the package included approximately $4.5 billion for this initiative. First, it will create jobs through the necessary construction, repairs and retrofitting. Secondly, it will save the government money in the long run as costs such as heating and cooling are reduced. This is a wise investment of taxpayer money. “I also made sure that small businesses will find it easier and cheaper to get the support they need from the Small Business Administration. As credit is very difficult to come by in this current environment, small businesses need options to stay afloat. Supplying them with low-cost loans with few fees was the least the government could do to help—and we made sure it was a priority in this bill.” Below is a fact sheet on the entire bill from Speaker Pelosi’s office. *** Conference Report on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Preliminary Overview Just over three weeks since the Inauguration of President Obama, Congress will consider the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, to save and create jobs, get our economy moving again, and transform it for long-term growth and stability. The landmark legislation is the first dramatic new investment in the future since the creation of the interstate highway system a half century ago. A staggering 3.6 million American jobs have been lost since this recession began in December 2007 – the culmination of the failed economic approach of the Bush Administration – one that also doubled our national debt in eight short years. We need a New Direction. The conference report on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act currently being drafted will: · Create and save 3.5 million jobs, rebuilding America, making us more globally competitive and energy independent, and transforming our economy. · Give 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut. · Invest in roads, bridges, mass transit, energy efficient buildings, flood control, clean water projects, and other infrastructure projects. · Restore science and innovation as the keys to new American-made technology, preventing and treating disease, and tackling urgent national challenges like climate change and dependence on foreign oil. · Invest quickly into the economy. Unprecedented accountability and transparency measures are built in to help ensure tax dollars are spent wisely and help restore confidence — another critical component of this recovery. The legislation being drafted contains targeted efforts in: · Clean, Efficient, American Energy · Transforming our Economy with Science and Technology · Lowering Health Care Costs and Ensuring Broader Coverage · Investing in Education for the 21st Century · Modernizing Roads, Bridges, Transit and Waterways · Tax Cuts for Middle-Class Families and American Businesses · Helping Workers Hurt by the Recession · Providing Strong Accountability Measures. Following are highlights, based on preliminary information, of some key provisions in each of these areas. Clean, Efficient, American Energy: To put people back to work today and reduce our dependence on foreign oil tomorrow, we will increase renewable energy production and renovate public buildings to make them more energy efficient. · Smart Grid/Advanced Battery Technology/Energy Efficiency o Provides a total of $30 billion for such initiatives as a new, smart power grid, advanced battery technology, and energy efficiency measures, which will create nearly 500,000 jobs. o Transforms the nation’s electricity systems through the Smart Grid Investment Program to modernize the electricity grid to make it more efficient and reliable. o Supports U.S. development of advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems through loans and grants so that America can lead the world in transforming the way automobiles are powered. o Helps state and local governments make investments in innovative best practices to achieve greater energy efficiency and reduce energy usage. o Spurs energy efficiency and renewable energy R&D. · Tax Incentives to Spur Energy Savings and Green Jobs o Provides $20 billion in tax incentives for renewable energy and energy efficiency over the next 10 years. o Includes a three-year extension of the production tax credit (PTC) for electricity derived from wind (through 2012) and for electricity derived from biomass, geothermal, hydropower, landfill gas, waste-to-energy, and marine facilities (through 2013). o Provides grants of up to 30 percent of the cost of building a new renewable energy facility to address current renewable energy credit market concerns. o Promotes energy-efficient investments in homes by extending and expanding tax credits through 2010 for purchases such as new furnaces, energy-efficient windows and doors, or insulation. o Provides a tax credit for families that purchase plug-in hybrid vehicles of up to $7,500 to spur the next generation of American cars. o Includes clean renewable energy bonds for State and local governments. o Establishes a new manufacturing investment tax credit for investment in advanced energy facilities, such as facilities that manufacture components for the production of renewable energy, advanced battery technology, and other innovative next-generation green technologies. · Landmark Energy Savings at Home o Provides $5 billion for landmark provisions to improve the energy efficiency of more than 1 million modest-income homes through weatherization. o This will save modest-income families on average $350 per year on their heating and air conditioning bills. · Repairing Public Housing and Making Key Energy Efficiency Retrofits to HUD-Assisted Housing o Provides a total of $6.3 billion for increasing energy efficiency in federally-supported housing programs. o Specifically, establishes a new program to upgrade HUD-sponsored low-income housing (elderly, disabled, and Section 8) to increase energy efficiency, including new insulation, windows, and frames. o Also invests in energy efficiency upgrades in public housing, including new windows, furnaces, and insulation to improve living conditions for residents and lower the cost of operating these facilities. Transform our Economy with Science and Technology: To secure America’s role as a world leader in a competitive global economy, we are renewing America’s investments in basic research and development, in training students for an innovation economy, and in deploying new technologies into the marketplace. This will help businesses in every community succeed in a global economy. · Investing in Scientific Research (More than $15 Billion) o Provides $3 billion for the National Science Foundation, for basic research in fundamental science and engineering – which spurs discovery and innovation. o Provides $1.6 billion for the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, which funds research in such areas as climate science, biofuels, high-energy physics, nuclear physics and fusion energy sciences – areas crucial to our energy future. o Provides $400 million for the Advanced Research Project Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) to support high-risk, high-payoff research into energy sources and energy efficiency in collaboration with industry. o Provides $580 million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, including the Technology Innovation Program and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership. o Provides $8.5 billion for NIH, including expanding good jobs in biomedical research to study diseases such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, cancer, and heart disease. o Provides $1 billion for NASA, including $400 million to put more scientists to work doing climate change research. o Provides $1.5 billion for NIH to renovate university research facilities and help them compete for biomedical research grants. · Extending Broadband Services o Provides $7 billion for extending broadband services to underserved communities across the country, so that rural and inner-city businesses can compete with any company in the world. o For every dollar invested in broadband, the economy sees a ten-fold return on that investment. Lower Health Care Costs and Ensure Broader Coverage: Affordable and quality health care is key to strong economic growth. We are bringing our health care system into the 21st century with information technology, which will save billions of dollars, and are taking key steps to ensure broader coverage in this recession. · Modernizing Health Care System to Lower Costs and Save Lives o Provides $19 billion to accelerate adoption of Health Information Technology (HIT) systems by doctors and hospitals, in order to modernize the health care system, save billions of dollars, reduce medical errors and improve quality. o Strengthens Federal privacy and security law to protect personally identifiable health information from misuse and abuse. o Creates hundreds of thousands of jobs – many in high-tech sectors – by promoting the adoption of HIT. o CBO estimates that this proposal will generate billions of dollars in “system-wide” savings. · Protecting Health Care Coverage for Millions through Medicaid o Protects health care coverage for millions of Americans during this recession, by providing an estimated $87 billion over the next two years in additional federal matching funds to help states maintain their Medicaid programs in the face of massive state budget shortfalls. o Helps states avoid cutting eligibility for Medicaid and scaling back the health care services covered. · Providing Health Insurance for Unemployed Workers o Currently, laid-off workers, under the COBRA program, can buy into their former employer’s health insurance. But the premiums are often prohibitively expensive. In order to help people maintain their health coverage, the bill provides a 60% subsidy for COBRA premiums for up to 9 months. · Investing in Prevention & Comparative Effectiveness Research o Provides $1 billion for a new Prevention and Wellness Fund. Studies have shown that investing in prevention can lower overall health care costs by billions of dollars. o Provides $1.1 billion for comparative effectiveness research, to help patients and doctors determine the effectiveness of different treatments. This research will improve the quality of care. Education for the 21st Century: Economists tell us that strategic investments in education are one of the best ways to help America become more productive and competitive. This bill will make key investments to help states avoid teacher layoffs and other damaging education cuts in this recession, help make college more affordable, and make other key education investments. · Preventing Teacher Layoffs and Education Cuts by the States o Prevents teacher layoffs and other cutbacks in education and other key services, by establishing a $53.6 billion State Fiscal Stabilization Fund, including $40.6 billion to local school districts using existing funding formulas, which can be used for preventing cutbacks, preventing layoffs, school modernization, or other purposes; $5 billion to states as bonus grants for meeting key performance measures in education; and $8 billion to states for other high priority needs such as public safety and other critical services, which may include education. · Making College More Affordable o Increases the higher education tax credit to a maximum of $2,500. Also makes it available to nearly 4 million low-income students who had not had any access to the higher education tax credit in the past – by making it partially refundable. o Increases the maximum Pell Grant by $500, for a maximum of $5,350 in 2009 and $5,550 in 2010. o Adds $200 million to the vital College Work-Study program. · Investing in Early Childhood Development o Provides $1.1 billion for Early Head Start and $1 billion for Head Start, which provide comprehensive development services to low-income infants and preschool children – thereby providing services for 110,000 additional infants and children. o Provides $2 billion for the Child Care Development Block Grant to provide child care services to an additional 300,000 children in low-income families while their parents go to work. · Providing Other Key Education Investments o Provides $13 billion for Title I grants to help disadvantaged kids reach high academic standards – ensuring that in this period of tight state and local budgets these vital services are maintained. o Provides $12.2 billion for grants for IDEA (Special Education) to increase the federal share of these costs, and prevent these mandatory costs from forcing states to cut other areas of education. Modernize Roads, Bridges, Transit and Waterways: To build a 21st century economy, we must create jobs rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, modernizing public buildings, and putting people to work cleaning up our air, water and land. · Modernizing Roads and Bridges o Provides $29 billion for modernizing roads and bridges, which will create 835,000 jobs. This investment creates jobs in the short term while saving commuters time and money in the long term. o Requires states to obligate at least half of the highway/bridge funding within 120 days. o States have over 6,100 projects totaling over $64 billion that could be under contract within 180 days. · Improving Public Transit and Rail o Provides $8.4 billion for investments in transit and $8 billion for investment in high-speed rail. These investments will reduce traffic congestion and our dependence on foreign oil. o Includes funds for new construction of commuter and light rail, modernizing existing transit systems, and purchasing buses and equipment to needed to increase public transportation and improve intermodal and transit facilities. o States have 787 ready-to-go transit projects totaling about $16 billion. · Prioritizing Clean Water/Flood Control/Environmental Restoration o Provides $18 billion for clean water, flood control, and environmental restoration investments, which will create more than 375,000 jobs. o Experts note that $16 billion in water projects could be quickly obligated. · Modernizing Public Infrastructure, Including To Achieve Major Energy Cost Savings o Provides billions to modernize federal and other public infrastructure with investments that lead to long-term energy cost savings, including about $5 billion to make improvements in DOD facilities, including housing for our troops and about $4.5 billion to make federal office buildings more energy-efficient in order to achieve long-term savings for taxpayers. Tax Cuts to Make Work Pay and Create Jobs: More than 35 percent of the package will provide direct tax relief to 95 percent of American workers, as President-elect Obama pledged, and spur investment and job growth for American businesses. To gain the support of the needed Senate Republicans, the amount of Make Work Pay Tax credit has been scaled back, the AMT has been added, and several business tax incentives have been added (cancellation of debt income). · Tax Relief for American Families o Provides immediate and sustained tax relief to 95 percent of American workers through the Making Work Pay Tax Cut, a refundable tax credit of up to $400 per worker ($800 per couple filing jointly), phasing out completely at $200,000 for couples filing jointly and $100,000 for single filers. o Cuts taxes for the families of millions of children through an expansion of the child tax credit (allowing families to begin qualifying for the child tax credit with every dollar earned over $3,000). o Expands the Earned Income Tax Credit by providing tax relief to families with three or more children and increasing marriage penalty relief. o Helps more than 4 million additional students attend college with a new, partially refundable $2,500 tax credit for families. o Protects 26 million middle-class families from being hit by the AMT. o Helps first-time homebuyers and strengthens the housing market by enhancing the current credit for first-time home purchases with the removal of the repayment requirement. o Provides incentives to buy new cars, including light trucks and SUVs, with a tax deduction for State and local sales taxes paid on the purchase. o Temporarily suspends the taxation of some unemployment benefits. · Business Tax Incentives to Create Jobs and Spur Investment o Helps businesses quickly recover costs of new capital investments by extending the bonus depreciation and increased small business expensing for businesses making investments in plants and equipment in 2009. o Includes a variety of provisions to help small business, including small business expensing for investment in new plants and equipment, loss carry back for small businesses, a delay of the 3% withholding tax on payments to businesses that sell goods or services to governments, and a cut in the capital gains tax cut for investors in small businesses who hold stock for more than five years. o Provides assistance to companies looking to reduce their debt burdens by delaying the tax on businesses that have discharged indebtedness, which will help these companies strengthen their balance sheets and obtain resources to invest in job creation. o Provides incentives to create new jobs with tax credits for hiring recently discharged unemployed veterans and youth that have been out of work and out of school for the 6 months prior to hire. · Tax Incentives to Spur Energy Savings and Green Jobs o Provides $20 billion in tax incentives for renewable energy and energy efficiency over the next 10 years. o Includes a three-year extension of the production tax credit (PTC) for electricity derived from wind (through 2012) and for electricity derived from biomass, geothermal, hydropower, landfill gas, waste-to-energy, and marine facilities (through 2013). o Provides grants of up to 30 percent of the cost of building a new renewable energy facility to address current renewable energy credit market concerns. o Promotes energy-efficient investments in homes by extending and expanding tax credits through 2010 for purchases such as new furnaces, energy-efficient windows and doors, or insulation. o Provides a tax credit for families that purchase plug-in hybrid vehicles of up to $7,500 to spur the next generation of American cars. o Includes clean renewable energy bonds for State and local governments. o Establishes a new manufacturing investment tax credit for investment in advanced energy facilities, such as facilities that manufacture components for the production of renewable energy, advanced battery technology, and other innovative next-generation green technologies. · Tax Incentives for State and Local Economic Development o Includes provisions to enhance the marketability for state and local government bonds, which will reduce the costs they incur in financing state and local infrastructure projects. o Includes a new bond-financing program for school construction, rehabilitation, and repair. Help Workers Hurt by the Recession: High unemployment and rising costs have outpaced Americans’ paychecks. We will help workers train and find jobs, and help struggling families make ends meet. Every dollar in unemployment or food stamp creates at least $1.63 in economic activity, as these funds are spent quickly. · Extending and Improving Unemployment Benefits o Continues through December 2009 the extended unemployment benefits program (which provides up to 33 weeks of extended benefits) that is otherwise scheduled to begin to phase out at the end of March 2009 – thereby helping an additional 3.5 million jobless workers. o Increases unemployment benefits for 20 million jobless workers by $25 per week, and encourages states to modernize their UI systems to keep up with the changing workforce with expanded coverage. o Temporarily suspends the taxation of some unemployment benefits. o Every dollar in unemployment benefits creates at least $1.63 in economic activity, according to chief economist Mark Zandi of Moody’s Economy.com. · Increasing Food Stamp Benefits o Increases food stamp benefits by over 13% to help offset rising food costs for more than 31 million Americans, half of whom are children. o Every dollar of food stamps creates at least $1.73 in economic activity, according to chief economist Mark Zandi of Moody’s Economy.com. · Increasing Other Food Assistance o Provides other food assistance, including $100 million for Emergency Food and Shelter to help local community organizations provide food and shelter; $100 million for formula grants to states for elderly nutrition services including Meals on Wheels; and $150 million for the Emergency Food Assistance Program to purchase commodities for food banks to refill emptying shelves. · Helping Workers Find Jobs o Provides funding to help workers find jobs, including $4 billion for job training including formula grants for adult job training, dislocated worker job training, and youth services (including funding for summer jobs for young people); $500 million for Vocational Rehabilitation State Grants to help persons with disabilities prepare for gainful employment; $500 million to match unemployed individuals to job openings through state employment agencies; and $120 million to provide community service jobs to an additional 24,000 low-income older Americans. · Expanding Housing Assistance o Increases support for several critical housing programs, including providing $2 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program to help communities purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed, vacant properties and $1.5 billion for the Emergency Shelter Grant program to provide short-term rental assistance and other aid for families during the economic crisis. · Providing Aid to Seniors, Disabled Veterans, and SSI Recipients o Provides a payment of $250 to Social Security beneficiaries, SSI recipients, and veterans receiving disability compensation and pension benefits from the VA. · Extending TAA o Extends Trade Adjustment Assistance benefits for at least 160,000 new workers over the next two years who lose their jobs because of increased imports or factory shifts to certain foreign countries. Unprecedented Accountability: An historic level of transparency, oversight and accountability will help guarantee taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and ensure that Americans can see the results of their investment. · There are no earmarks or pet projects. · In many cases, funds are distributed to existing initiatives with proven track records and with tough accountability measures already in place. · How funds are spent, all announcements of contract and grant competitions and awards, and formula grant allocations must be posted on a special website created by the President. It must also include the names of agency personnel to contact with concerns about infrastructure projects. · Public notice of funding must include a description of the investment funded, the purpose, the total cost, and why recovery dollars should be used. Governors, mayors, or others making funding decisions must personally certify that the investment has been fully vetted and is an appropriate use of taxpayer dollars. This information will also be placed on the internet. · The Council of Economic Advisors must report quarterly on the results for the American economy. · A Recovery Act Accountability and Transparency Board will be created to review management of recovery dollars and provide early warning of problems. The board is made up largely of Inspectors General. · The Government Accountability Office and the Inspectors General are provided additional funding and access for special review of recovery funding. · State whistleblowers who report fraud and abuse are protected. ###
01.29.2009	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman; Carolyn McLaughlin, Executive Director, Citizens Advice Bureau; Kelly Dillon, Board President, Ariva, Inc. WHEN: Friday, January 30, 2009, 10 a.m. WHERE: Citizen's Advice Bureau's Bronx Works site, 391 E 149th Street, 5th floor, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano (D-N.Y.) will join with IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman and local tax help groups in a public event to remind low income New Yorkers to claim their Earned Income Tax Credit when filling out their 2008 tax forms. The IRS estimates that “20 to 25 percent of qualifying workers miss out on thousands of dollars every year because they fail to claim their EITC.” Serrano and Shulman will outline how people in the Bronx and New York City can claim the credit. Determining eligibility for the EITC is complicated, but there are multiple local resources available to help. In 2007, more than 1.5 million New Yorkers claimed the EITC, though many more would have qualified.
01.29.2009	Congressman José E. Serrano today announced that he has no plans to allow the Postal Service to move forward on their proposal to cut mail delivery service to five days a week. The annual Appropriations bill Serrano crafts contains a provision explicitly prohibiting such a service cut, and Serrano pledged to maintain the prohibition in his upcoming bill. “We all know that the Postal Service is facing difficult choices as mail volumes drop, but it cannot cause undue problems for its loyal customers as it seeks to streamline itself,” said Serrano. “The outcry from the general public should alert the Postal Service that there is little tolerance for the idea of delivery cutbacks. People depend on regular mail delivery and would be greatly inconvenienced by missing a day’s delivery.” “The Postal Service must manage its operations in ways that will not cause consumers to miss out on mail service. Working with the tools that it has available – and with the knowledge that I will retain the prohibition on service cuts within my bill – I have confidence that the Postal Service will come up with acceptable plans to address its financial shortfall while maintaining important services.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. Serrano chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, where authority over the federal portion of the Postal Service’s budget is allocated each year.
01.27.2009	Congressman José E. Serrano today called the benefits to New York City from the pending Economic Recovery package “helpful” and “timely.” Serrano is the only New York City member of Congress on the Appropriations Committee, which crafted the House version of the bill. Serrano chairs the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, and played a key role in drafting portions of the legislation, which will be considered by the House today and tomorrow. “The bill that is before the House today would provide New York City with a significant economic shot in the arm, as we face this economic downturn,” said Serrano. “I know that the funding levels provided will boost New York’s education, Medicaid, infrastructure, and housing budgets. This could not come at a more critical time in these areas. “I am glad to have been part of the delegation here in Washington working to shore up our City’s economy. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I always feel it is important that I make sure that New York is getting its due share of federal funding.” Serrano also highlighted some of New York City’s funding estimates that he thought would provide the most impact to the economy. “New York City will receive $2 billion for Medicaid reimbursement, along with $600 million for public housing capital improvements. Additionally, New York City is slated to receive $777 million to upgrade school facilities and could take in up to $253 million for roads and bridges.” “These are preliminary numbers, but they are significant,” added Serrano. “They will help New Yorkers suffering in this economic downturn. That is the point of this economic recovery package and I am glad to have played a role in crafting it. ”
01.23.2009	Congressman José E. Serrano and New York State Senator José M. Serrano mourned the passing of champion boxer and community leader José "Chegui" Torres this week. Torres won the silver medal in the 1956 Olympics in the middleweight category, and the light-heavyweight world championship in 1965. Using his fame, he later moved to a career of activism, writing and leadership. “José Torres, who I knew better as Cheguí, was a personal friend, a role model, a mentor, and a hero to me,” said Congressman Serrano. “When I was young, we followed his boxing career obsessively—he was one of our most cherished Puerto Rican sports heroes, up there with the baseball greats. He brought us a great sense of pride and accomplishment as a community through his boxing career. Little did we know that his next step in life would be just as uplifting and important to Puerto Ricans. “Cheguí next turned his attention from boxing to his second career: community activism and writing as a columnist for various New York papers. His primary concern was earning respect and equality for the Puerto Rican community, but he also was allied with all the various groups and communities in New York and was sensitive to their concerns too. He understood that we all rose or fell together. “We became friends and allies as I began my career in politics. We would talk about politics, sports, romantic music and life in general. I sought his advice on many difficult issues. I always knew that he would give me an answer that placed equality first. He was a mentor and a friend and I will miss him. When we look back on his life and accomplishments, I can say without hesitation that there will never be another man like Cheguí.” “José “Cheguí” Torres paved the way for many of the successes that our community has enjoyed,” said Senator Serrano. “He was an icon in the Puerto Rican community for his activism and his boxing—and he will be missed. As a boxing fan and a Puerto Rican elected official, I look up to Cheguí on two levels. Older generations in both those world felt a kinship and a bond with this great man, and I enjoy listening to their stories about him. I hope that my generation will be able to carry the torch that Cheguí lit and carried so long before us.”
01.20.2009	Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the inauguration of President Barack Obama. “Today our national dream of equality for all was one step closer as we watched the inauguration of President Barack Obama. This man who came from such an unlikely background to the presidency has become the repository of our hopes and dreams. Now he will have the chance deliver on the promise of his message. We will stand side-by-side with him and put our collective strength to fixing our nation. “As a boy from Mayaguez, Puerto Rico that grew up in the projects in The Bronx, and came to serve in the U.S. Congress, I believe in unlikely journeys and the power of the American dream. I see reflected in Obama some of my hopes and aspirations as so many do. Best of all, however, I see a better America emerging as a result of his leadership, and his power to inspire. I see an America more united, moving towards a new bright future. “So I salute President Obama and look forward to working with him as we move the nation forward into the future.” ###
01.15.2009	Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, commented on his subcommittee’s section of the Economic Recovery package unveiled today. “Our economy is suffering, and the bill we released today will attack the problem through targeted funding for a broad variety of programs. My subcommittee holds jurisdiction over a portion of the bill, and I am very pleased at the funding we were able to provide for these programs. I have spent the past several years working with these agencies, and can say with some certainty that they are doing fine work and will use this funding in ways that are guaranteed to stimulate economic activity. “The Small Business Administration will get substantial funding for new lending and loan guarantees. The number and value of these loans have fallen rapidly over the past year, and this additional funding will help make these loans more attractive to small businesses. This is a major shot in the arm to our nation’s small businesses, which are in many ways the backbone of the economy. “We also provided new funding for the General Services Administration, which constructs and manages our federal buildings and vehicle fleet. With these funds they will catch up on maintenance backlogs at federal buildings, construct land ports of entry facilities on our borders and begin the long-overdue conversion to a highly fuel efficient vehicle fleet. This is an investment in our national infrastructure and environment. “Our section of the bill is sure to help stimulate the economy – by making investments in our national infrastructure. Not only will this provide short term benefits, but also will leave our nation in a better state in the long term.” Below are the programs and funding levels for Serrano’s portion of the stimulus bill. Small Business Administration: Small Business Credit: $430 million for new direct lending and loan guarantee authorities to make loans more attractive to lenders and free up capital. The number of loans guaranteed under the SBA’s 7(a) business loan program was down 57% in the first quarter of this year compared to last. GSA: Federal Fleet: $600 million to replace older vehicles owned by the federal government with more fuel efficient vehicles including alternative fuel automobiles that will save on fuel costs and reduce carbon emissions. Federal Buildings: $6.7 billion for renovations and repairs to federal buildings including at least $6 billion focused on increasing energy efficiency and conservation. Projects are selected based on GSA’s ready-to-go priority list. Border Ports of Entry: $1 billion to construct GSA land ports of entry to improve border security, make trade and travel easier, and reduce wait times. ###
01.15.2009	Wednesday, Reps. Steve Israel (D-NY), José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) announced a proposal for a National Hate Crimes Hotline. "Recently, New York has suffered with the news of two deadly hate crimes. These violent acts remind us that the fight against hate and discrimination continues in our communities," said Rep. Steve Israel. "All too often, victims of hate crimes don't report the acts perpetrated against them. Without accurate reporting, law enforcement is limited in its response. A National Hate Crimes Hotline will give these victims a way to privately and promptly report bias-motivated crimes, just as the National Domestic Violence Hotline has assisted millions of callers trapped in difficult situations." ”We must do everything possible to combat the cruel power of hate crimes,” Rep. Serrano said. “A national hotline will be another option for those living in fear to report these terrible acts. With the recent spate of hate crimes in our community, the time is now for increased action at all levels of government. At the very least, we must have the best possible information about the prevalence of these hurtful acts. The bottom line is that this hotline will help our communities to be safer places.” “In recent months, we have seen appalling and horrendous acts of hate in New York. A National Hate Crimes Hotline will help to prevent future crimes by ensuring more accurate reporting of these terrible incidents and improving local responsiveness. We must not tolerate these crimes and a national hotline would be an important step toward cracking down on these terrible acts,” said Rep. Velázquez, the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The hotline will be modeled after the National Domestic Violence Hotline, with a goal of increasing both the reporting of and local responsiveness to hate crimes. The National Domestic Violence Hotline has fielded more than 2 million calls since its launch in 1996. New York recently endured two high-profile hate crimes in Patchogue and Brooklyn. In both cases, someone lost their life in a bias-motivated crime. In New York State, 273 agencies work on behalf of the over 15 million New Yorkers to report hate crime statistics. However, only 29 of the 273 New York agencies reported a total 493 hate crimes statewide in 2007. Based on recent reports, many victims are simply not reporting these crimes out of fear of what will happen to them. The FBI is required to track hate crime statistics, but does not require state agencies to report them, causing for major discrepancies in the number of crimes reported per state. In "Hate Crimes Reported by Victims and Police," an article based on the National Criminal Victimization Survey and Uniform Crime Reporting, the nation had an annual average of 210,000 hate crimes between July 2000 and December 2003. Only 92,000 of these crimes were reported to police. According to an FBI report from October 2008, there were 595 incidents of anti-Hispanic hate crimes in 2007, an increase of 3.3% from the 576 incidents reported in 2006. According to an annual Hate Crime Statistics Report released jointly by the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 2,025 law enforcement agencies reported 7,624 hate crime incidents involving 9,006 offenses in 2007 (the most recent year for which reporting is available). Additionally, an analysis of the 7,621 single-bias incidents reported in 2007 revealed the following: 50.8 percent were racially motivated 18.4 percent were motivated by religious bias 16.6 percent resulted from sexual-orientation bias 13.2 percent stemmed from ethnicity/national origin bias ###
01.09.2009	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez, Congressman Luis Gutierrez, Council Speaker Christine Quinn, Assemblywoman Melissa Mark-Viverito, other elected officials, families fearing deportation of a loved one. WHEN: Saturday, January 10, 2009, 1 p.m. WHERE: Iglesia La Sinagoga, 115 E. 125th Street, New York, NY 10035 WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano (D-N.Y.) will join religious, community, and political leaders as well as immigrants’ rights activists at a community meeting to hear from New Yorkers who fear a family member, friend or loved one may be at risk of deportation. Congressman Serrano recently reintroduced legislation that would allow immigration judges to consider the impact of splitting up a family with U.S. citizen children. (Child Citizen Protection Act, H. R. 182). ###
01.07.2009	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano received word from Venezuelan Ambassador Bernardo Alvarez that the discounted home heating oil program that CITGO sponsors in the Bronx and other disadvantaged communities would continue in 2009. “I received the news that the heating oil program would continue with great relief,” Serrano said. “Since we first unveiled the pilot program in 2005, thousands of people in my community and across the nation have saved significant money on their home heating bills. We have been grateful for that benefit, and are pleased to hear that it will continue this year, despite the drop in crude oil prices. “As before, the program in the Bronx, which benefits mostly non-profit housing associations, will be run by Citizens’ Energy under the leadership of its founder, Joe P. Kennedy II. I also spoke with Joe Kennedy today, and he assured me that they will be able to continue servicing all the people and communities as before through this vital program. “I applaud CITGO for their good corporate citizenship; helping the communities where they make their money. I also thank Joe Kennedy and Citizens Energy for their great work helping families across the nation with their heating bills these past years. Both these organizations are truly aiding people struggling in these tough economic times.” ###
12.16.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano received the final design choices for the quarters representing Puerto Rico, DC, and the other territories and applauded all those involved in bringing this to fruition. Serrano had directed the Treasury Department to issue this set of representative quarters in the annual appropriations bill that he writes. “I think the symbols, text and images that each of these territories selected are great. These quarters, when they begin circulating next year, will show the people of the 50 states that there are more Americans out there and they merit inclusion at every turn,” Serrano said. “The success of this program has exceeded what I imagined when I included the directive to the Treasury Department in my annual bill. In selecting what they wanted on their quarter, each of these jurisdictions clearly spent time thinking about what they wanted all Americans to understand about them. In that process, I’m sure they further examined who they are, and how they relate to the rest of the nation. “In coming months, I foresee a child, who has a quarter with a territorial design on it, asking a parent or teacher to explain the relationship of that place to the U.S. In this small way, we will be teaching that there are more Americans than just those who live in the 50 states, and that all deserve respect and equality. The power of this small lesson cannot be understated. “I applaud all those involved in making this program a reality, and look forward to completing my “territorial quarters” set.” For more information about the “territorial quarters” see: http://www.usmint.gov/pressroom/index.cfm?action=press_release&ID=969 Final designs can be seen at: http://www.usmint.gov/pressroom/index.cfm?action=Photo#2009DCTerri
12.03.2008	Today, Chairman José E. Serrano sent a letter to the Treasury Department questioning the lack of sufficient internal oversight of the Troubled Asset Relief Program as outlined by the Government Accountability Office. Serrano is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the Treasury. Serrano noted that “TARP can be successful only if it is open, transparent, fully accountable for taxpayers’ dollars, and includes efforts to improve the economic security of all Americans.” The following is the text of Serrano’s letter: *** December 3, 2008 The Honorable Henry M. Paulson, Jr. Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Paulson, As you know, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) yesterday released its first 60-day report on the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), as required by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. While it is clear that the Department of the Treasury has been working hard over the past two months to restore confidence in the financial markets, I am concerned about several of GAO’s findings. In particular, I would like to comment on the following from the report: Use of Capital Purchase Program (CPP) funds - The GAO report notes that it is “unclear how [the Office of Financial Stability] and the regulators will monitor participating institutions’ use of the capital investments.” I am concerned that some recipients of CPP funds may not use the funds in ways that will maximize the flow of capital into the economy. I am also concerned that the banking regulators have not yet developed additional supervisory measures that would enhance oversight over these financial institutions. In fact, the failures of bank regulators to adequately oversee these institutions in recent years even further diminish my confidence that they can ensure the funds are used as intended under the CPP. Oversight of contractors - GAO concludes that “Treasury has not yet finalized necessary oversight procedures for its growing number of contractors and financial agents” and that Treasury lacks “a comprehensive and complete system to monitor conflicts of interest.” The heavy reliance on contractors in TARP may have been inevitable given the dire economic circumstances and the need to act quickly. However, it is imperative that Treasury move expeditiously to establish effective oversight of these contractors and ensure that conflicts of interest are mitigated. Management of TARP by the Office of Financial Stability (OFS) - A strong OFS is critical to ensuring that TARP functions properly, including through establishing effective internal controls and contractor oversight. GAO identifies requirements relating to the completion of hiring at the OFS and the establishment of an effective transition plan to the new Administration. The transition comes at a very challenging time, so Treasury must execute a detailed plan and coordinate closely with the incoming Administration. As part of the description of contracting under TARP, GAO also notes that Treasury has taken some steps to promote small business participation in contracts, including participation by minority and women-owned small businesses. I commend Treasury for making efforts in this area, and I strongly encourage you to expand your efforts to include these businesses in the program. That there are challenges in implementing TARP is no surprise considering the complexity of the program and the speed with which it has been implemented. However, it is imperative that Treasury do everything possible to ensure that the program is successful. It can be successful only if it is open, transparent, fully accountable for taxpayers’ dollars, and includes efforts to improve the economic security of all Americans. The GAO report includes Treasury’s comments on its findings and recommendations. I am pleased that Treasury agrees with most of GAO’s recommendations, but I note that Treasury has different views on evaluating how institutions are using CPP funds. I strongly urge Treasury to work to implement fully and without unnecessary delay all of GAO’s recommendations. I also would like to commend you on the Department’s November 17th announcement regarding the CPP as it relates to community development financial institution (CDFI) banks. Allowing these institutions to receive CPP funds on advantaged terms will help bring much-needed capital to underserved, low-income communities throughout the country that are suffering the most from the economic recession. I appreciate your attention to the needs of these communities. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, I stand ready to work with you to ensure that Treasury is fully capable of effectively administering the TARP program. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Chairman Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government ###
12.01.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated Senator Hillary Clinton on her nomination to become Secretary of State in the Obama Administration. “In difficult times like these, I can think of no better person for the job of Secretary of State than my friend Hillary Clinton,” Serrano said. “Her unique set of skills and experiences make her the perfect person to begin to rebuild our alliances around the world. She will quickly help our nation regain its historic stature in the world, which has been so badly diminished in the years of the Bush Administration. Hillary knows exactly what to say, and who to say it to in order for us to get the results that we need internationally. She is a perfect fit for this job. “I must say that the people of New York will lose one of the most talented and effective Senators they have ever had when she takes on this new role. She has been tireless in championing their causes in the U.S. Senate. She has taken New Yorkers’ concerns and needs and made it her business to deliver solutions. For me, she has been one of the best partners to have in Washington, and I must say that I will miss having her to work with. On behalf of the people of the Bronx, I say: “Thank you Hillary for your years of distinguished service to New York.” “We all look forward to watching this remarkable woman continue to achieve great things on behalf of our nation.”
12.01.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano mourned the passing of legendary political activist and Bronx leader Ramon Velez today. “Ramon Velez created a political and social movement that has had deep and lasting effects on New York City,” Serrano said. “Most of the Puerto Rican elected officials who have held office since the 1970s were elected in large part because of Ramon Velez’ work organizing the community. His voter registration drives added more than half a million new voters to the rolls, effectively enfranchising the Spanish-speaking citizens of our city. There are still echoes of his efforts to organize the South Bronx in the social movements in our borough and city today. His models for organizing were based in his deep belief in the power of the people. That is at the heart of all great community empowerment movements. “I first met Ramon as I was becoming active in my community in the late 1960s starting at the South Bronx Community Corporation. Along with Federico Perez and George Rodriguez, I learned from Ramon and was inspired by his profound faith in the community as well as his deep understanding and celebration of the Puerto Rican identity. Based on these shared beliefs, we have all gone on to dedicate our professional lives to serving the people of the Bronx. Ramon was integral to making such service a core value in our community and shaping the careers of hundreds of young Latinos and African-Americans who are now leaders in government and social service in New York and beyond. “From the voter registration drives, to setting up the Hunts Point Multi-Service Center, to incorporating the National Puerto Rican Day Parade, and pushing for respect for Spanish speakers in our City in a variety of ways, Ramon Velez’ work has had almost unparalleled impact on our City. He was a visionary and a talented organizer. Our community will miss this great man.”
11.21.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano received a letter from the Postmaster General today which said that the Postal Service will not be closing the Bronx processing facility. Serrano worked over the past several years to block the Postal Service from consolidating the Bronx operations into a Manhattan-based facility. The closure of the facility would have resulted in reduced service for Bronx mail recipients and would have taken jobs away from the Bronx. “Today is a great day for the Bronx,” Serrano said. “We are going to keep our mail sorting facility and the corresponding jobs right here in the Bronx. We knew that consolidation was the wrong move for a variety of reasons. The community came together to oppose the consolidation and deserves the credit for this victory. From my seat on the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the Postal Service, I was able to bring the community’s concerns directly to the Postal Service management, but without the group effort we would not have won today.” ###
11.12.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement upon the long-overdue burial of Medal of Honor winner Sergeant Cornelius Charlton at Arlington National Cemetery. “This burial of honor comes 56 years later than it should have, but we can now finally say that our country has done right by Sgt. Charlton. This son of the Bronx was a true American hero who gave his life for our nation during the Korean War. “His heroism earned him the Medal of Honor and the right to rest in Arlington National Cemetery alongside the other heroes from our armed services. One of these honors was given right away, but the other has only come to pass today, more than a half a century later. Today we write the final chapter of this hero’s story as we lay him to rest where he belongs. “He was also honored in The Bronx years ago with a park that bears his name. Together with the veterans that fought alongside Sgt. Charlton, we have made huge strides in cleaning and refurbishing Charlton Garden. This park will soon be a place befitting of the name it bears and a place of peace and reflection for the community. “We must acknowledge the hard work that the family and veterans did to correct this injustice. Without their dedication to honoring Sgt. Charlton’s memory and bringing his improper treatment to light, we may have never known about or been able to correct the problem. Today their efforts are rewarded as we see our Bronx hero being honored for his heroics 56 years ago.” ###
11.12.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated Kenneth McClintock on his appointment as Puerto Rico’s Secretary of State by Governor-elect Luis Fortuño. “Governor-elect Fortuño could not have made a better choice for his Secretary of State than my friend Kenneth McClintock. The people of Puerto Rico will be well-served by this team, and I am proud to say that I am friends with both of these great leaders. “I first met Kenneth many years ago, and was immediately impressed by his thoughtful nature, his dedication to the Puerto Rican people, and above all his fairness and decency. Kenneth has always worked to improve Puerto Rico and to ensure that all Puerto Ricans are given a fair shot regardless of where they were from, what they did or what party they belonged to. I know that he will continue to do the same in his new post. “I very much look forward to working with Kenneth and my good friend Luis Fortuño in the coming years. They will have a steadfast friend in me here in Washington. I foresee great things for this team.” ###
10.03.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano voted against the Wall Street bailout bill today. “Today we took another difficult vote on the bailout bill, and I again voted against it,” Serrano said. “I spent a great deal of time thinking and consulting on this issue since our first vote on Monday. I came to the conclusion that the package that was presented to us today was not improved from the package I voted against earlier this week. “Because it is the same, except for some unrelated additions, my concerns about it remain the same—it is not structured to attack the problem from the bottom up. It does not address the root of the problem: the foreclosures and debt facing our working and middle class families. This bill does nothing to help those who are most in need of help. Instead, it still focuses on bailing out the very people who created this problem in the first place. I could not represent the working people of my district in good faith and vote for this bill. “I understand that there is a credit crisis, and would be open to measures that directly address that issue. This bill, however, does not do that. I spoke with many colleagues urging that we look directly at that issue, rather than using this blank check approach. Many were receptive to the need for a more targeted and fair approach, but we had been pressed for time by the panic that the country seemed to be experiencing, fanned by the proponents of this plan. “In my no vote, I was speaking for the people in the Bronx and people across the nation who are stuck without any help from our government. I was speaking against bailing out the very people who caused this mess. I was speaking for fairness in our economic policies. And I stand by my vote.” ###
10.02.2008	As the first fully electric commercial delivery truck in New York City was unveiled today in the Bronx, Congressman José E. Serrano hailed it as a bold first step towards a cleaner city. “Today we welcome the first zero-emissions delivery truck to New York City. I couldn’t be happier that it happens to be in the Bronx—the site of some of the worst air quality in the City. It is not a coincidence; however, as we have been working for quite some time to build an environmental movement in our community to deliver results like this one. “The partnership between Down East Seafoods and the Bronx Community College’s Center for Sustainable Energy is at the root of this accomplishment. They first met at a briefing at my offices, and we helped them identify available grants to help purchase the vehicle. The vision and hard work of the staff of both Downeast and the Center for Sustainable Energy are directly responsible—and I can’t say enough about their great work. “The Center for Sustainable Energy will build on this great accomplishment at tomorrow’s 3rd Annual Alternative Fuel Vehicle Conference at Lehman College. There we’ll learn how to line up more of these types of opportunities for our community. “I see today’s unveiling as the first step towards a sustainable, clean, job-friendly Bronx, where entrepreneurship and environmental protection are rewarded and nurtured. We have a great support network for people and businesses interested in reducing environmental damage and rebuilding our great community. This clean business model is the future of the Bronx, but more importantly, the City and the nation. We are an example today of what tomorrow looks like.” ###
09.30.2008	Today, members of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee sent a letter to the FCC asking that it investigate the treatment of public access channels in the rapidly changing cable television market. The subcommittee wrote the letter in response to testimony heard during a September 17th hearing on the subject. The full text of the letter follows. Chairman José E. Serrano of the subcommittee said that the letter “is a first step towards resolving the troubling issues and allegations brought to light at our hearing. Public access advocates believe that their programming is being unfairly treated as the cable television market becomes more competitive. Our constituents must have the same opportunity to watch public access programming as other channels. We look forward to the FCC’s analysis and will continue to monitor this situation.” *** September 30, 2008 The Honorable Kevin J. Martin Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Martin: As you know, the Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government held a hearing on September 17, 2008 on public, educational, and governmental (PEG) access to cable television. The subcommittee appreciates the participation of the Commission’s Media Bureau Chief, Monica Shah Desai, at this hearing. We recognize that there are considerable changes occurring in cable television, including the transition to all digital transmission and the entry of new competitors and technologies into the market. We believe that these changes can deliver improved cable television for millions of viewers. However, we also believe that PEG television is essential to our communities as an outlet for free speech, local information and opinions, and emergency communications. Changes in the cable environment should not lead to a diminishment of the accessibility of PEG channels to these same viewers. The subcommittee heard several concerns relating to PEG at the hearing. These concerns include: Some cable operators are moving PEG channels to new locations on the channel dial, including moving them into digital locations up to the 900 channel block. Witnesses expressed concern that this places PEG channels well away from the basic tier of channels and may require some consumers to rent or purchase converter equipment to view PEG channels. In its U-verse cable service, AT&T delivers PEG programming in a manner that is different from its delivery of commercial channels. The service offers PEG programming via an Internet-based video stream at a single channel location and requires the viewer to load PEG programming through a series of menus. Witnesses told the subcommittee that this method of PEG delivery is slow and technologically inferior to how commercial channels are delivered over U-verse service. They cited inferior picture quality, lack of closed captioning or second audio programming, incompatibility with programmable recording devices, and absence of program listings for PEG programs. Concerns also were raised about the degradation of public safety communications on AT&T’s U-verse service. U-verse’s emergency alert system procedures were described in testimony as “cumbersome and inefficient” and as not supporting emergency alert messages that would override or scroll on broadcast channels. If an emergency alert message directing viewers to a PEG channel for more information cannot be displayed, and if a viewer cannot immediately access a PEG channel with emergency information, we question whether emergency communications are being delivered effectively. Ms. Desai made the following statement at the hearing: “The statute requires PEG channels to be placed on the basic service tier along with your local broadcast channels. So to place additional burdens on consumers to have to find their PEG channels seems to defeat the purpose of the basic service tier.” We agree with this statement and believe that the concerns we heard at the hearing represent evidence that PEG channels are being assigned a second class status outside of the basic service tier. We ask the Commission to assess these concerns to determine whether the situations described are contrary to federal laws and regulations and, if so, take expeditious enforcement actions. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, ______________________ José E. Serrano Chairman Subcommittee on Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government and General Government ______________________ Ralph Regula Ranking MemberSubcommittee on Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government and General Government ______________________ David R. Obey Chairman Committee on Appropriations ______________________ Carolyn C. Kilpatrick ______________________ Mark Steven Kirk ______________________ Peter J. Visclosky ______________________ Maurice D. Hinchey ______________________ Adam Schiff Cc: The Honorable Michael J. Copps The Honorable Jonathan S. Adelstein The Honorable Deborah Taylor Tate The Honorable Robert M. McDowell ###
09.29.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano voted against the bailout package today, citing the legislation’s lack of a solution for homeowners facing foreclosure, and a lack of focus on the average American. “I understand the need to shore up our nation’s big banks to prevent a larger problem, but I cannot support such an action if it does nothing to help the millions of people facing foreclosure. Leaving them out of this package is shortsighted and guarantees that we will have to address the problem in the next Congress. “We must face the fact that the crisis in Wall Street stems from a mortgage crisis on Main Street. If we only bail out Wall Street, we have not addressed the root cause of the problem. “This is a tax on my constituents – the working people – to erase the consequences of the bad judgment of the fat cats down on Wall Street. I cannot support such a bill. “Where was this concern over the past year when our communities have suffered from the mortgage crisis? For them we were told: ‘they got in over their heads and must take responsibility for their actions.’ But when the rich bankers get in over their heads, we’re told they must be rescued. “The other downside for working families that no one is mentioning is that when the bill for this bailout comes due, we’ll be told that we cannot afford many of the programs that help regular people—programs like healthcare and education. So not only are we ignoring them now, but we’ll be forced to ignore them in the future as we pay off the debt from this package. That’s a bad deal twice over. “If this package had been balanced—bailing out Wall Street and Main Street, I would have been more inclined to support it. I am sad to say that it was not balanced.” ###
09.24.2008	Today, Chairman José E. Serrano highlighted the portions of the continuing resolution and disaster supplemental that fall under his subcommittee’s purview and applauded their inclusion. The House passed H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing Appropriations Act today. “The continuing resolution and disaster supplemental has many items that were top priorities for my subcommittee,” Chairman Serrano said. “We worked hard to have them included, and were pleased to see them in the final package. Despite the intransigence of the Bush Administration, the government must be funded, and this was the only option left to us. I believe that under the circumstances, we have made sure that government will be able to do what is necessary and important until we have a new Administration in the White House.” “I am particularly pleased to be able to take care of the Small Business Administration’s needs to be able to respond to the recent natural disasters. We must help those affected get their businesses up and running again and their homes repaired —and the SBA disaster loan program is key to that effort. “I am also grateful to be able to fund the IRS’s efforts to process and send out the economic stimulus checks that we authorized earlier this year. People are depending on those checks, and we must make sure the I.R.S. can distribute them a.s.a.p. “We are also on the verge of the transition to digital television—and funding the FCC’s efforts to get the word out is vital to preventing a potentially huge problem next year. Now is the time to educate the public, and so this item could not wait.” Below is a summary of some of the items included in this legislation that fall under the jurisdiction of Serrano’s House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee. • $67,900,000 for the IRS to process stimulus payments provided by the Economic Stimulus Act. • Language authorizing the expenditure of DC local funds as included in the FY 2009 DC Proposed Budget and Financial Plan. • $20,000,000 more than FY 2008 funding levels for the FCC for costs associated with consumer education in preparation of the conversion to digital television. • 3.9 percent Federal civilian employee pay raise for 2009. • Additional lending authority for credit unions to ensure that they will have sufficient liquidity during the current financial market turmoil. Credit unions play a pivotal role in providing financial services to disadvantaged communities. Presidential transition items: • An annual rate of $8,000,000 for Presidential transition administrative support within the Executive Office of the President. • An annual rate of $15,000,000 for costs associated with security for the Presidential inauguration for the District of Columbia. • An annual rate of $8,520,000 for the General Services Administration for costs associated with the Presidential transition. • $5,700,000 for the Executive Office of the President for email restoration activities. The following Financial Services items are included in the disaster supplemental portion: • $10,000,000 for Small Business Development Centers to provide technical assistance to small businesses affected by recent disasters. • $3,000,000 for the SBA Inspector General for expenses related to consequences of recent disasters. • $498,000,000 in disaster loan subsidy and $288,000,000 in disaster loan administrative costs to support the SBA disaster loans program. • $182,000,000 for new construction of a Federal Courthouse in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. ###
09.22.2008	As Congress rushes to pass a bailout package for Wall Street firms embroiled in the debt and credit crisis, Congressman José E. Serrano asked a series of questions about the proposal. Serrano is Chairman of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, which oversees the Treasury Department, among other agencies. “There should be no doubt that I can support a responsible package that keeps the American economy from imploding. That said, I have a series of questions that I would like to pose to the public and my colleagues.” “When a person falls on hard times and needs food stamps, we are told they lack personal responsibility. When the biggest firms on Wall Street make outrageously risky investments, and fall on hard times, why are they not held personally responsible? Why do I have a feeling no one will go to jail for this scheme even though it could cost the taxpayers far more than any financial crisis in history? “When a government in Latin America nationalizes a corporation because it’s not serving the poor, we are told it is ‘banana-republic socialism.’ Why is it that when we nationalize a whole sector of our economy because the rich are affected, it is a must-do action to save Wall Street, our national economy and capitalism itself? “When President Bush tells us we must pass the bill exactly as he proposed it right away or face a catastrophic event, why do I feel like I’m voting on whether to go into Iraq all over again, and worry that the results will be similarly bad? “Why do I have the sneaking suspicion that when the next President goes to increase spending on worthy social programs, or to help the middle and lower classes struggling in a bad economy, we’ll be told that ‘we can’t afford it’ because we have to pay the debt we ran up for this bailout? “Why did several members of my community who work hard and pay their bills come to me and say; ‘Mr. Serrano, we hear about this bailout package for Wall Street, and we have to know, who’s going to bail us out? Don’t they deserve a fair shake from the government too? “Our economy is in crisis, but that does not mean we have to act without asking questions. It is our responsibility to ask these questions and more. And we must take a long hard look at the unspoken message we are sending when we pass this package and realize that many people will have tough questions like these.” ###
09.12.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the inclusion of two large Veterans Affairs construction projects for Puerto Rico in a bill that passed the House today. H.R. 6832, the “Veterans’ Construction and Extensions Act of 2008” would authorize up to $225.9 million in spending for seismic corrections at the San Juan VA Medical Center and $6.2 million for a new outpatient clinic in Mayaguez. “I commend Chairman Bob Filner for including these two items in this important legislation. The veterans in Puerto Rico served with honor and dedication, and this bill provides these veterans with the very best service and facilities that they have earned and deserve,” said Serrano. “These projects show that our nation honors their service not just with words but also with action. As I have said many times, I will continue to fight to include Puerto Rico in any legislation that passes the House. Luckily, I have great partners in this endeavor like my friend, Bob Filner.” “As the new fiscal year begins on October 1, it is essential that VA has the legal authority it needs to move forward in providing world-class facilities and better access to our veterans in Puerto Rico,” said Bob Filner, Chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Supporting our veterans is not a mere slogan – it is our mandate. Together, we must meet the needs of our veterans in Puerto Rico – those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, while never forgetting our heroes from previous conflicts.” ###
09.11.2008	This morning, Congressman José E. Serrano joined colleagues in Congress as well as people across the nation in commemorating the tragic events of September 11th, 2001. “Our nation suffered a terrible blow seven years ago today and was forever changed,” Serrano said. “We watched in horror as our nation was attacked by unknown assailants for unknown reasons. Our shock turned to outrage, grief and sadness in the following days. I will never forget watching the American people come together as one to mourn the innocent people we lost and also ask that the terrorists responsible be brought to justice.” “My hometown, New York, was hit that fateful day. It was a primary day, and I was campaigning for my son, José M. Serrano in his bid for the City Council. The attacks caused the election to be cancelled, which was a direct blow to our cherished democracy. In the days following, I vowed to fight against changes to our civil rights as a result of the attacks. I believe that the more we changed, the more the terrorists would have succeeded. “In that spirit, every 9/11, I ask myself, ‘have I done everything I can to preserve the freedoms and traditions of our great nation against fear and hatred?’ I then redouble my efforts. The memory of the thousands of innocent people we lost that fall day seven years ago demands no less.” ###
09.09.2008	Today, at 10:30 AM, Congressman José E. Serrano will serve as Speaker Pro Tempore as Jaime Zapata begins his new public role as the first ever Hispanic Reading Clerk in the House of Representatives. Zapata began his new role this past July, but today marks the first time he assumes a public speaking role. “I want to commend both Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Clerk of the House Lorraine Miller for their commitment to ensuring that the diversity of our nation reaches all parts of the Legislative Branch,” said Serrano. “I am proud to serve as Speaker Pro Tempore during this historic moment for Hispanics across the nation. Jaime will do wonderfully in this new public role, and now, every time a Hispanic child flips to C-SPAN, they can take heart in knowing that the proceedings of the House help reflect our diversity as a nation.” What: Congressman Serrano presides over new Reading Clerk Jaime Zapata as he assumes his first public duties in the position When: 10:30 AM, Floor of the United States House of Representatives Where: The proceedings can be seen on C-SPAN ###
09.08.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to President George W. Bush today, following the devastation of Cuba by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The text of the letter follows: *** The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: I am writing to add my voice to that of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Howard Berman, calling for a suspension of regulatory restrictions for travel and remittances to Cuba by Cuban-Americans. Lifting these restrictions will help to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Cuba caused by the recent hurricanes. First, Hurricane Gustav damaged homes, infrastructure and crops across the island. Now, Hurricane Ike has caused the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people in Cuba and will add to the damage to buildings and agriculture. Because of this repeated battering, I agree with Chairman Berman that we should examine all possible avenues for providing assistance to Cuba. As a government we should reach out and offer assistance to the Cuban people, but one of our best resources for providing timely and accurate assistance is the many Cuban-Americans with families back in Cuba. They personally understand the situation in Cuba and will know what their families need. In order to tap this great resource, I believe that Chairman Berman’s proposal of a 90 day suspension of regulatory restrictions on visits, remittances and gifts is reasonable and would allow Cuban Americans to help their relatives recover from the storms. This is not a time to focus on policy differences over the merits of the Cuban government, nor on the long term differences between our two governments. It is a time to acknowledge the human suffering and hardship that is ongoing in Cuba and to take steps to alleviate it. This is an opportunity for our nation to show its compassion for those who are suffering. I encourage you to take the necessary measures to allow direct assistance to the Cuban people from their family members in the United States. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
08.21.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano sent his condolences to the family of Ohio Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, who passed away yesterday. “Stephanie was a dear friend of mine and a great leader whose untimely passing came as a great shock. I will miss her insights, her wit and her charm here in the House. She served the people of her community and her state with great compassion and vision—and her absence will be felt for years to come. My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends as they absorb this terrible loss.” ###
08.14.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention today upon learning that Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories had been left out of the Estimation of HIV Incidence in the United States report. Serrano believes that this omission is deeply troubling and urged that the CDC reconsider this decision. The full text of the letter follows. *** August 14, 2008 Ms. Julie Louise Gerberding Director Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road NE Atlanta, GA 30329 Dear Director Gerberding: I write this letter to express my opposition to the decision by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to not include Puerto Rico and the other United States territories in its August 2008 HIV/AIDS report entitled Estimation of HIV Incidence in the United States. I am particularly concerned about CDC’s decision to exclude Puerto Ricans from the Hispanic HIV/AIDS incidence rate analysis. As a result of these decisions, I worry that the CDC report does not correctly reflect the HIV/AIDS diagnosis rate among Hispanics. It is my understanding that in January 2008, the CDC included Puerto Ricans in the Hispanic incidence rate. According to the Latino Commission on AIDS: [The] CDC’s January 2008 decision to revise the number of new Hispanic HIV/AIDS diagnoses to include Puerto Rican Hispanics diagnosed with AIDS in 2006, dramatically raised the total HIV/AIDS diagnoses rates for Hispanics from 17.3% to 22%, demonstrating, for the first time, that Puerto Rico alone accounted for 20% of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in 2006 among Hispanics in the country. (http://www.latinoaids.org/mediaadvisory/CDCreversal.htm) I strongly believe that it is vital that all people living under the American flag be considered in future reports to avoid underreporting this deadly disease, and to ensure that the needs of all communities across our nation are addressed. Furthermore, any inaccurate statistics included in your final report will have a direct impact on the allocation of funds and other resources for health services, and may result in a reduction of funding and resources allocated to combat HIV/AIDS in the Hispanic population. I urge that your agency reconsider using the statistics on Puerto Ricans in this final report, and that future reports include Puerto Rico and the other U.S. territories. As Hispanics continue to be the fastest growing minority population in our nation, it is important that they be correctly represented in all health reports. I look forward to hearing what steps you plan on taking to ensure that your agency’s health reports accurately reflect the health status of all communities across our nation. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
08.13.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement head Julie Myers today after learning of inhumane treatment of undocumented people in her agency’s custody. The text of the letter follows: *** The Honorable Julie Myers Assistant Secretary Immigration and Customs Enforcement 425 I Street NW, Room 7100 Washington, DC 20536 Dear Assistant Secretary Myers: I was deeply disturbed about the recent reports in The New York Times of another person dying while under ICE custody due to a complete failure to provide medical care. The article, “Ill and in Pain, Detainee Dies in U.S. Hands” (8/13/08), highlights the case of Mr. Hiu Lui Ng and the repeated dismissal of his excruciating symptoms by detention center personnel. Whether or not all the details in The New York Times story are proved to be accurate this appears to be an ongoing issue for your agency and for our country. I understand that your agency has important homeland security duties, but, as I’ve said before, I think that there needs to be a clear understanding about the difference between people who come here in search of a better life and those who come here to do us harm. However, it must also be understood that there is a certain standard we should live up to for everyone we have detained and it is outrageous that anyone would be treated in such a fashion while in your custody. It is even more egregious when the person whose health was so cavalierly disregarded was a hardworking member of society, who was trying to formalize his status, was married to an American citizen and who had two children who are American citizens. Such treatment does not help keep America safer, but rather harms us by further damaging our standing around the world. I hope that this case will finally spur your agency to re-evaluate the attitude your agency takes towards detainees and towards immigrants more generally. The fundamental issue here is that the people who have suffered these horrific medical failures are not terrorists, ‘illegals’ or some other dehumanizing category, but are fellow human beings. This must be thoroughly understood before these sorts of problems can hope to be remedied. Detainees must be treated as such while they are under ICE custody. I am sure you are as disturbed about this case as I am and I look forward to hearing what steps you plan on taking to address these obvious shortcomings. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
08.13.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano sent a letter to SEC Chairman Christopher Cox this week urging the Securities and Exchange Commission to look into the emerging issue of predatory equity. Serrano has been fighting to save the affordable housing status of 1520 Sedgwick Avenue, a threatened Bronx housing complex. “I was quite disturbed when I received a letter from the Urban Homesteading Assistance Board detailing their concerns about the financing for the 1520 Sedgwick acquisition and other similar predatory equity deals in my district,” Serrano said. “I had already been at work on the 1520 Sedgwick situation, but these allegations deepened my fears about a deal that is being pushed against the will of the tenants and community. I felt that writing to SEC Chairman Christopher Cox and bringing to the SEC’s attention the facts outlined in UHAB’s letter to be the swiftest and perhaps most effective course of action. I will continue to focus on this case while also working to ensure that affordable housing is preserved from unscrupulous developers both in my district and around the nation.” The text of both letters is below. *** The Honorable Christopher Cox Chairman Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Dear Chairman Cox: Please find enclosed a letter from Andrew Reicher, the Executive Director of the Urban Homesteading Assistance Board, describing a serious problem involving predatory equity in affordable housing in New York City, and more specifically in the Congressional district that I represent in the Bronx, New York. In his letter, Mr. Reicher outlines the chronology of what happened to two former Mitchell Lama developments, Robert Fulton Terrace and Fordham Towers. In these particular cases, legitimate questions can be raised about the accuracy of the facts included in the developer’s public SEC filings. This same developer is now looking at another affordable housing complex located at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue, also located in the Bronx, New York. As Mr. Reicher carefully notes in his letter, once again the sale price is not supportable. I would appreciate your review of this letter, and your response on the role that the SEC can play with respect to these predatory equity deals. Sincerely, José E. Serrano *** August 11, 2008 The Honorable Jose Serrano U.S. House of Representatives 2227 Rayburn Washington, DC 20515 Dear Congressman Serrano, We are writing to request your support on a serious matter concerning hundreds of units of affordable housing that are being placed at risk in your district. A new trend has emerged in which real-estate speculators, armed with huge pools of private capital and access to substantial bank financing, are targeting multi-family subsidized and rent regulated affordable housing throughout New York City with the goal of raising rents, maximizing profit, and ridding these projects of their low income tenancies. These investors are paying inflated sums to acquire these projects which, in most cases, are not supportable by operating income. The practice closely mirrors the financial malfeasance which is still playing out in the sub-prime single family housing market. Banks and other mortgage lenders are willing to make unsupportable loans, provided they can shed their risk by selling the notes to Investment Banks who package them into complicated investment products and resell them to private investors as Mortgage Backed Securities. We have identified several cases where lenders have misstated facts in their public SEC filings to make the deals seem more supportable, precisely the case with a deal that has occurred in your district with the Robert Fulton Terrace and Fordham Tower Apartment complexes. A real-estate developer by the name of Mark Karasick and his lender, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC), acquired Robert Fulton Terrace and Fordham Towers, two former Mitchell Lama developments now protected under rent regulation back in 2006. Mr. Karasick paid $41.5 million to acquire the buildings; $36.5 M of that came from a CIBC loan. An analysis of the deal indicates that rents would have to double to make the transaction financially viable; a legal impossibility under current rent regulation rules. To make this deal seem more attractive to potential investors, CIBC reported in their SEC filings that operating costs for the project were $301 per unit per month; also a practical impossibility in terms of actual operating costs in NYC. (See attached prospectus; Line marked UW Expenses. This number is divided by the total number of units, 490, and then divided by 12 months. The result is an estimated operating cost of $301 per unit per month.) According to research by the New York City Rent Guidelines Board, the average per unit operating cost for rent-stabilized apartments in the Bronx was $567 per month in 2006. The actual operating costs for this project in 2006 according to an audited financial statement were between $725 and $900 per unit per month. If the financial health of this deal is predicated on false statements, there is a serious danger that both investors and lenders will face substantial losses. More importantly, if these unrealistic expectations cannot be achieved, the heaviest burden will be placed on those who are least equipped to absorb it; namely the low-income, rent paying tenants who live there. As you know, Mr. Karasick is now targeting another affordable housing complex in your district, 1520 Sedgwick Avenue. Once again the sales price for this deal seems entirely unsupportable. In light of the severity of this problem, we are reaching out to your office to help bring this practice to the attention of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as any other banking regulator who might have jurisdiction to intervene in this matter. We know that you are a tremendous friend to affordable housing and we thank you in advance for your time and attention to this crucial matter. If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact Dina Levy on my staff at 212/479-3302. We hope to hear from you on this matter soon. Sincerely, Andrew Reicher Executive Director ###
07.30.2008	Bill supported by national health policy, scientific, religious and social groups Congressman José E. Serrano introduced the “Community AIDS and Hepatitis Prevention Act” in the U.S. House of Representatives today. Upon introducing the bill, which would lift the ban on use of federal funds for syringe exchange programs, Serrano said “the time has come to end this inhumane policy, which leads to unnecessary HIV and hepatitis infections.” As chair of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, Serrano previously lifted the ban on DC using local funds for syringe exchange programs. “The ban on use of federal funds for syringe exchange programs is a relic of the War on Drugs that has become obsolete and must be done away with,” Congressman Serrano said. “Scientists have proven that the programs do not increase drug use, but do reduce HIV and hepatitis infections among drug users. These are facts, not opinions. Based on them, the federal funding ban makes little sense, and, in fact is cruel as it relegates more people to suffering from these horrible diseases.” Serrano’s bill is supported by multiple national health policy, scientific, religious and social groups. They note that many cities and states already allow and fund syringe exchange programs, which federal funds would bolster. They also note that drug use can be combated at the same time, as users are offered counseling and treatment as they seek clean syringes. “That syringe exchange reduces HIV and does not increase substance use was established by the scientific community more than fifteen years ago, and we are now showing that syringe exchange can reduce the transmission of viral hepatitis,” said Don C. Des Jarlais, Ph.D., Director of Research for The Baron Edmond de Rothschild Chemical Dependency Institute, Beth Israel Medical Center, Research Fellow, National Development and Research Institutes, Inc., and Professor of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York. “Syringe exchanges also bring additional benefits like referrals to drug abuse treatment and cost-effective health outreach to populations that are very difficult to reach, so the federal government really should have done this many years ago.” “The introduction of this bill is an important step forward," said William Martin, M.Div., Ph.D., senior fellow for Religion and Public Policy at the James Baker Institute and the authoritative biographer of the Rev. Billy Graham. He added "No compassionate person wants to consign people unnecessarily to death or a living hell. Fortunately, providing injecting drugs users with access to sterile syringes allows us to be responsible, prudent, and compassionate.” "This health care intervention serves the interest of both police and citizens," said Ron Hampton, executive director of the National Black Police Association. "It will reduce needle-stick injuries to police and prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in communities across the country. To the extent that syringe exchange participants are not arrested for possession of syringes it will also help reduce racial disparities in enforcement and arrests." “The Center for Disease Control and Prevention is just about to release data showing that the U.S. has been underestimating HIV incidence for years” said Ronald Johnson, Deputy Director of AIDS Action Council. “The U.S. must commit to evidence-based prevention programs like syringe exchange,” he continued. “This important bill is a good first step in allowing local communities throughout the U.S. to use their federal funding for prevention programs that work.” ###
07.23.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano announced that through his efforts, Puerto Rico and the territories had been included in the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, which passed the House of Representatives this afternoon. “As with every major piece of legislation that has passed in the past year or so, as soon as I was able, I went to the chief sponsors and made sure that Puerto Rico and the territories were included,” Serrano said. “I explain to my colleagues that Puerto Rico and the territories are an integral part of America and its economy. I spoke personally with Chairman Barney Frank and members of the Democratic leadership to make sure that Puerto Rico and the territories were included. I owe them a debt of gratitude for taking this action. “As I’ve always said, I see this as both a matter of fairness to all people living under the American flag and an economically wise step to take. Puerto Ricans and residents of the territories deserve a fair shake from the U.S. government. Leaving them out of critical economic packages is wrong. The decline in housing prices and the subprime crisis affects them too. “Furthermore, I always remind people that consumer spending and house sales in Puerto Rico and the territories are conducted in U.S. dollars because they are a fundamental part of our economy. Letting them through a recession or a housing crisis is short-sighted. They cannot be left out of our attempts to help people weather the storm.” ###
07.20.2008	Congressmen Joseph Crowley (D-Queens, Bronx) and José Serrano (D-Bronx) joined with Richard Byrd, Commissioner of the Wage and Investment Division at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), to unveil a new national outreach effort to notify every eligible veteran and senior citizen in the U.S. that they need to file with the IRS to receive their Federal stimulus rebate check. More than 439,000 New York State residents, including 204,000 individuals in New York City, still have not claimed their checks, which are worth up to $300 per individual, $600 per married couple, and an additional $300 for each child. Individuals only have until October 15, 2008 to file for their rebate check. The IRS outreach effort will begin on Monday, July 21st. “Times are tough right now. That is why Congress enacted an economic stimulus package to provide hard-working Americans with much-needed financial relief,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “Millions of Americans have received their Federal rebate check, but more than 400,000 New Yorkers have not. We want to make sure everyone gets their money. I hope others will join me, Congressman Serrano, and Commissioner Byrd in getting the word out to all New Yorkers that they only have 87 days left to file with the IRS for their tax-free, free money.” “Everyone who qualifies should get their economic stimulus check – it’s not too late. We passed the legislation to provide this tax rebate with the intention that people would get and spend it. We wanted to provide a helping hand to families and individuals, as well as stimulate the American economy,” Congressman José E. Serrano said. “If you’re having trouble figuring out how to get your check, people at the IRS can help. Don’t delay in getting what is rightfully yours.” Congress enacted the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (H.R. 5140) in February. The package included $100 billion in direct financial relief for millions of Americans, including seniors, veterans, and low-income individuals. While most Americans automatically received their rebate check as a result of having filed a 2007 Federal tax return, for the millions of low-income workers, Social Security beneficiaries, and disabled veterans and their widows who normally do not file a Federal return, a Special Form 1040A must be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). In New York City, 204,000 families have yet to submit the Special Form 1040A to receive their check, including: 39,402 in the Bronx – where the median Federal benefit received by seniors and veterans is $9,222. 62,045 in Brooklyn – where the median Federal benefit received by seniors and veterans is $9,376. 44,941 in Manhattan – where the median Federal benefit received by seniors and veterans is $9,538. 47,067 in Queens – where the median Federal benefit received by seniors and veterans is $9,960. 11,111 on Staten Island – where the median Federal benefit received by seniors and veterans is $10,944. "It's not too late. We want every taxpayer and retiree eligible to receive the economic stimulus payment to get it. Just complete and mail Form 1040A by October 15, 2008. You can find additional information on our web site, IRS.gov, or come see us at the closest Taxpayer Assistance Center if you need help with the form. I want to thank Congressmen Crowley and Serrano for helping us get the word out on these payments," said Commissioner Richard Byrd. A list of Taxpayer Assistance Centers is available at http://www.irs.gov/localcontacts/index.html. Congressman Crowley, from his seat on the Ways and Means Committee, played a significant role in crafting the economic stimulus legislation; Congressman José Serrano is the chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services, which has jurisdiction over the Internal Revenue Service’s annual budget. # # #
06.27.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano welcomed the Floating Pool Lady to the Bronx and applauded all those involved with bringing the pool to his district. “The arrival and opening of the Floating Pool Lady is yet another historic milestone in the rebirth of the South Bronx waterfront,” Serrano said. “From the moment we heard about the work of Ann Buttenwieser and the Neptune Foundation, we campaigned for the Floating Pool Lady to make the South Bronx her summer home. This day is especially sweet and the location particularly fitting since nearly 100 years ago, our predecessors in government had the foresight to an anchor a floating bath at the very site where the Floating Pool Lady has today dropped anchor. While that wooden pool is long gone from our shoreline, the vision of children and families swimming right on our waterways still captures the imagination of New Yorkers. “Today, we have the great pleasure of opening this pool for a new generation of Bronxites to use for the rest of this summer and for summers yet to come. For the 47,000 people in Hunts Point and Longwood who have never had a pool to cool off in, I thank you for your patience, sweat and determination. Your community district is one of the only spots in our city without a swimming pool of any kind. The floating pool will give you what you have been missing. “For years, the South Bronx, and its shoreline, have been the place where New York City put things that it did not want. We have fought for years against that mentality and finally, with all of our new parks and greenways, we have started to break the pattern. The arrival of the pool is one of those special times when you can point to an event and say ‘See how far we have come?’ It is an extraordinary thing. “I applaud all the people who made this a reality. We owe a debt of gratitude to Ann Buttenwieser, of the Neptune Foundation, whose vision and appreciation for New York’s maritime history propelled this project forward, and to all this project’s proponents, most notably the young people from The Point Community Development Corporation who first brought this opportunity to my attention. I also commend Councilwoman Maria del Carmen Arroyo, Community Board #2 and the leadership at Rocking the Boat who early on realized the value of bringing the pool to our borough. And of course, we thank the NYC Department of Parks and Recreation and NYC Departmental of Environmental Protection for partnering on the installation and operation of the pool, the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation for its expedited permitting, and the MTA for agreeing to provide seasonal bus service to Barretto Point Park and other underserved parts of our district. On behalf of the people of the South Bronx, I thank all of them for their great work. “Now I invite everyone who wants to cool off and swim to come down to Barretto Point and take a dip in the Floating Pool Lady. The water’s great!”
06.26.2008	Yesterday, U.S. Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, and Rep. Steve Israel (D-NY) announced House legislation to provide federal funds to complete a review and historical analysis of declassified U.S. Army, CIA and OSS documents on the Nazis and Japanese Imperial Government. Since 1999, in one of the largest declassifications in history, federal agencies have declassified more than 8 million pages of documents related to the involvement of the United States government with Nazi and Japanese war criminals. The documents help illuminate what the U.S. government knew about the Holocaust during World War II. A working group established to review and report on the documents ended in 2007 without being able to analyze the entirety of the material. “We must fully understand our nation’s history however painful,” Chairman Serrano said. “In order to facilitate that understanding, we must bring all the facts to light. Completing this review of the documents relating to our government’s knowledge of the Nazis and the Holocaust will help us to finally close this chapter in our nation’s history. I thank my friend Steve Israel for his important work on this subject.” “The information we’ve gained from this declassification has shed light on a dark part of our history. It’s imperative that we continue to learn about our past and finishing this work will show us what our government knew of the Nazis during World War II,” Rep. Israel said. As part of the Financial Services and General Government funding measure, passed by the House Appropriations Committee on Wednesday, June 25, 2008, the Committee designated $650,000 to complete the review of the US government documents pertaining to the activities of the Nazis and Japanese Imperial Government. The Committee also directs the National Archives and Records Administration to provide a report summarizing recently discovered Nazi-era documents. The legislation will be considered by the full House of Representatives in the coming weeks. ###
06.25.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, delivered the following statement at the full committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2009 bill today: “I’m pleased to present the Financial Services and General Government’s FY 2009 bill for the Committee’s consideration. This bill is the result of the subcommittee holding 15 hearings, with 32 witnesses, earlier this year. Before I discuss the bill, I want to thank the Ranking Member, Mr. Regula, on the work and leadership he has put into this bill. As you all know, Mr. Regula is retiring at the end of this year. That is a great loss to this Committee and this House. It has been an honor and a privilege to work with you, Mr. Regula, and I will miss the partnership we have had on this bill. This bill does many things to bring government closer to the people, to better fit its services to their needs. The American people expect and deserve the best services their government can offer. The subcommittee’s budget allocation is $22.4 billion, which is the amount provided by the subcommittee’s recommended bill. This is a tight but fair allocation. The allocation is $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2008 level and $150 million, or less than one percent, over the President’s request. We used that modest increase to try to fill a number of holes left by the President’s budget. This bill directs funding to programs where we believe money will be well spent and will benefit, for example, disadvantaged communities and small businesses. These are important priorities that need to be increased from the President’s budget. You have had a chance to look at the subcommittee’s bill and report, so in the interest of time, I am not going go into a lot of detail regarding each program and agency. However, I do want to highlight three important themes in this bill –consumer protection, small business development, and election administration improvements. Regarding consumer protection, the Consumer Product Safety Commission would receive $20 million above this year’s level. These extra funds would be used to continue the effort we started last year to restore the Commission’s ability to keep unsafe products, including unsafe imported products, off the marketplace. We are reversing years of neglect and budget cuts that left the Commission with a fraction of the people and resources it needed to do its job. Money is also available in the bill for the Commission to improve the safety of pools and spas so that tragedies involving child drowning can be prevented. Consumer protection is also important with respect to financial products such as mortgages. We held a hearing this spring that examined the situation facing subprime borrowers and what the Treasury Department and the Federal Trade Commission could do to address this situation. Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which would receive $105 million in this bill, or $76.4 million above the President’s request, helps to expand the availability of credit, capital and financial services to underserved communities throughout the nation, including those particularly hard hit by the credit crisis. The Federal Trade Commission would also receive increased funding for investigation and enforcement in the financial services area, including subprime lending investigations. I also view investor protection as another form of consumer protection. This bill includes $928 million for the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is $22 million above the current year and $15 million above the request. This will enhance the SEC’s enforcement, capital market oversight, and investor protection activities. This bill also does a great deal to support small businesses by including $880 million for the Small Business Administration. This includes $110 million for Small Business Development Centers, which is $13 million over this year’s level, $23 million over the request. We also provide $100 million to support loan guarantees, reversing the Administration’s policies that have resulted in a higher cost of financing for struggling small businesses. The bill also includes $22.5 million for microloans and technical assistance to the smallest companies. In addition, the bill funds SBA programs that target disadvantaged and low-income communities and entrepreneurs, including the HUBZone program, the PRIME program, and the 7(j) program. The PRIME program, which once again was proposed for termination by the President, will be doubled to $6 million to help very low income small business owners. The third important theme is improving election administration. The Election Assistance Commission is a small agency that works on issues that are extraordinarily essential to the nation and to voters’ confidence that their votes are counted accurately. This bill includes $110 million for payments to States to help them meet the requirements of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, as well as additional funding for research and testing of voting systems. This funding will help ensure that elections are fair, accessible, and accurate. This bill also includes a number of policy provisions that will address some ongoing congressional concerns. It includes, for example, a one-year moratorium on new competitive sourcing – also known as A-76 – activities. The provision halts this Administration’s controversial and detrimental Federal workforce program until the next Administration has had an opportunity to consider and implement its own workforce policies. Another provision relating to the Federal workforce is the annual civilian employee cost-of-living adjustment. The recommendation is for a 3.9 percent adjustment, which is the same as the adjustment the House approved for military personnel and higher than the 2.9 percent increase the President recommended. The mark also contains a provision to prohibit funds from being used in support of the IRS private debt collection program. Under this very misguided and wasteful program, the IRS allows private contractors to collect unpaid taxes and to keep up to 24 percent of the tax revenue they bring in. This program should be terminated. The bill would also prohibit funds from being used to implement or enforce the Federal Communications Commission’s recent changes to the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rules. I believe that the loosening of media consolidation rules is detrimental to the goals of diversity in ownership and viewpoints, as well as to localism and independence in the news media. The recommendation also includes provisions to liberalize travel to Cuba for Americans who have family members living in that nation. There is no reason to place harsh restrictions on those who simply wish to visit close family members. In addition, the bill contains a provision to facilitate agricultural trade with Cuba, allowing more American farmers to sell their products to Cuba. I believe that this is a good bill that allows us, within the allocation that we were given, to make some important funding and policy choices to improve the services that our government agencies provide to our constituents as they pay taxes, purchase products, and start small businesses. Compromises have been made, but the final product is one that the Committee can be proud to support. ###
06.25.2008	Today, Congressmen José Serrano (D-Bronx) and Joseph Crowley (D-Bronx, Queens) announced that they had secured $3.2 million in funding for the ongoing restoration and shoreline protection of Orchard Beach, as well as $700,000 to improve the Bronx River. The funding is included in the House Appropriations Energy and Water bill for fiscal year 2009 that was approved by the House Appropriations Committee today. “Today is a big day for the parklands and natural areas of the Bronx,” Congressman Serrano said. “Restoring and revitalizing the Bronx River has been an ongoing commitment for me. It has come a long way. Restoring the parks that provide great recreation opportunities, like Orchard Beach, has been no less a commitment. I was pleased to work together with my friend Joe Crowley to make sure that Orchard Beach has the funds it needs to be stabilized and restored so that it will be usable for generations to come. Bronxites deserve no less.” “These funds go a long way to help restore these important Bronx resources and continue the local environmental projects Rep. Serrano and I helped start last year,” said Congressman Crowley. “Cleaning up the Bronx River and repairing historic Orchard Beach will help improve the quality of life for our entire community. With travel costs skyrocketing, local families will be able to explore our newly restored urban parklands right here in the Bronx. I look forward to continuing our work in Congress to protect our Bronx natural areas with my friend, José Serrano.” Serrano and Crowley were joined in the Bronx River funding request by Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Albio Sires (D-NJ). The Bronx River has been the subject of an extensive environmental restoration program over the last decade. It has gone from one of the most polluted and trash-filled rivers in the Northeast to a natural wonder, home to myriad forms of wildlife. Running through the urban sections of the Bronx, it provides a respite from city life for Bronx residents. Orchard Beach is located on the east side of the Bronx, and is the only public beach in the borough. Once called "The Riviera of New York," shoreline erosion and disrepair have hampered the ability of the public to use the popular park. Crowley and Serrano have been obtaining funding for an extensive Corps of Engineers shore protection project. Congressman Crowley is a Member of the House Ways and Means Committee; Congressman José Serrano chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government. ###
06.25.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, delivered the following statement at the full committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2009 bill today: “I’m pleased to present the Financial Services and General Government’s FY 2009 bill for the Committee’s consideration. This bill is the result of the subcommittee holding 15 hearings, with 32 witnesses, earlier this year. Before I discuss the bill, I want to thank the Ranking Member, Mr. Regula, on the work and leadership he has put into this bill. As you all know, Mr. Regula is retiring at the end of this year. That is a great loss to this Committee and this House. It has been an honor and a privilege to work with you, Mr. Regula, and I will miss the partnership we have had on this bill. This bill does many things to bring government closer to the people, to better fit its services to their needs. The American people expect and deserve the best services their government can offer. The subcommittee’s budget allocation is $22.4 billion, which is the amount provided by the subcommittee’s recommended bill. This is a tight but fair allocation. The allocation is $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2008 level and $150 million, or less than one percent, over the President’s request. We used that modest increase to try to fill a number of holes left by the President’s budget. This bill directs funding to programs where we believe money will be well spent and will benefit, for example, disadvantaged communities and small businesses. These are important priorities that need to be increased from the President’s budget. You have had a chance to look at the subcommittee’s bill and report, so in the interest of time, I am not going go into a lot of detail regarding each program and agency. However, I do want to highlight three important themes in this bill –consumer protection, small business development, and election administration improvements. Regarding consumer protection, the Consumer Product Safety Commission would receive $20 million above this year’s level. These extra funds would be used to continue the effort we started last year to restore the Commission’s ability to keep unsafe products, including unsafe imported products, off the marketplace. We are reversing years of neglect and budget cuts that left the Commission with a fraction of the people and resources it needed to do its job. Money is also available in the bill for the Commission to improve the safety of pools and spas so that tragedies involving child drowning can be prevented. Consumer protection is also important with respect to financial products such as mortgages. We held a hearing this spring that examined the situation facing subprime borrowers and what the Treasury Department and the Federal Trade Commission could do to address this situation. Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which would receive $105 million in this bill, or $76.4 million above the President’s request, helps to expand the availability of credit, capital and financial services to underserved communities throughout the nation, including those particularly hard hit by the credit crisis. The Federal Trade Commission would also receive increased funding for investigation and enforcement in the financial services area, including subprime lending investigations. I also view investor protection as another form of consumer protection. This bill includes $928 million for the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is $22 million above the current year and $15 million above the request. This will enhance the SEC’s enforcement, capital market oversight, and investor protection activities. This bill also does a great deal to support small businesses by including $880 million for the Small Business Administration. This includes $110 million for Small Business Development Centers, which is $13 million over this year’s level, $23 million over the request. We also provide $100 million to support loan guarantees, reversing the Administration’s policies that have resulted in a higher cost of financing for struggling small businesses. The bill also includes $22.5 million for microloans and technical assistance to the smallest companies. In addition, the bill funds SBA programs that target disadvantaged and low-income communities and entrepreneurs, including the HUBZone program, the PRIME program, and the 7(j) program. The PRIME program, which once again was proposed for termination by the President, will be doubled to $6 million to help very low income small business owners. The third important theme is improving election administration. The Election Assistance Commission is a small agency that works on issues that are extraordinarily essential to the nation and to voters’ confidence that their votes are counted accurately. This bill includes $110 million for payments to States to help them meet the requirements of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, as well as additional funding for research and testing of voting systems. This funding will help ensure that elections are fair, accessible, and accurate. This bill also includes a number of policy provisions that will address some ongoing congressional concerns. It includes, for example, a one-year moratorium on new competitive sourcing – also known as A-76 – activities. The provision halts this Administration’s controversial and detrimental Federal workforce program until the next Administration has had an opportunity to consider and implement its own workforce policies. Another provision relating to the Federal workforce is the annual civilian employee cost-of-living adjustment. The recommendation is for a 3.9 percent adjustment, which is the same as the adjustment the House approved for military personnel and higher than the 2.9 percent increase the President recommended. The mark also contains a provision to prohibit funds from being used in support of the IRS private debt collection program. Under this very misguided and wasteful program, the IRS allows private contractors to collect unpaid taxes and to keep up to 24 percent of the tax revenue they bring in. This program should be terminated. The bill would also prohibit funds from being used to implement or enforce the Federal Communications Commission’s recent changes to the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rules. I believe that the loosening of media consolidation rules is detrimental to the goals of diversity in ownership and viewpoints, as well as to localism and independence in the news media. The recommendation also includes provisions to liberalize travel to Cuba for Americans who have family members living in that nation. There is no reason to place harsh restrictions on those who simply wish to visit close family members. In addition, the bill contains a provision to facilitate agricultural trade with Cuba, allowing more American farmers to sell their products to Cuba. I believe that this is a good bill that allows us, within the allocation that we were given, to make some important funding and policy choices to improve the services that our government agencies provide to our constituents as they pay taxes, purchase products, and start small businesses. Compromises have been made, but the final product is one that the Committee can be proud to support. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990.
06.20.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano voted today against a new bill authorizing the President’s controversial wiretapping and surveillance activities. Serrano called his vote against the bill “a strong statement in favor of civil liberties.” “Today’s vote on the President’s surveillance programs was an easy decision for me. I was opposed to the provisions allowing the government to spy on American citizens without a warrant. I also could not vote in favor of immunity for companies that broke the law. Using the cover of the terrorism threat, this Administration has pushed far beyond what the American people and the Constitution should tolerate. “I have always said that once you allow a civil liberty to disappear, even if it’s limited in time or scope, you may never get that it back. That’s a scary thought to me. I fully support the efforts of the Administration to fight terrorism—but when it comes to our citizens and their rights, there can be no compromise. If there is, the terrorists have won. We cannot allow them to take away any our freedoms because of their threats. “I hope that with a new Administration and new Congress next year we can begin to clean up the mess that the Bush Administration and their Republican allies created. We owe the American people no less.” ###
06.19.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano voted against continuing the funding for the Iraq War today, and he also voted in favor of increasing veterans’ benefits. “I cast two votes today in favor of our troops. The first was a vote to end this war. War supporters often try to convince people to believe that votes against the war are votes against the troops. This couldn’t be further from the true situation. By voting to end the war, we are voting to bring our troops home and out of harm’s way. As I have always said, they have done everything they’ve been asked to do, and more. We cannot continue to ask them to try to salvage a failed Iraq policy. “Our second vote was to increase veterans’ benefits. I cannot think of a bill that I support more. They deserve to be treated as the heroes that they are—not nickeled and dimed. They have sacrificed so much on our behalf. I strongly believe that in return we must do everything we can to help them to get health care, jobs, education and housing. That is our obligation to them.”
06.17.2008	Today the subcommittee will mark up the fiscal year 2009 bill. I am pleased to present the Chairman’s mark for the subcommittee’s consideration. The proposed bill and report, as well as a summary, are before you. Your staff has also been briefed on the bill. The printed bill and report are embargoed until they are circulated to Members prior to full Committee markup, so subcommittee staff will be collecting them today after this markup. I ask your cooperation in leaving the copies of the bill and report on the table. In a moment I will describe what is included in the Chairman’s mark, but first I would like to again turn to my friend and colleague, Mr. Regula, to thank him for his hard work and collaboration. I know we may not be in agreement on everything in this bill, but we have worked together to develop the best possible bill. This Subcommittee held multiple hearings in the spring to explore the issues facing agencies funded through this bill. As the hearings progressed, it became clear that this Subcommittee could do many things to bring government closer to the people, to better fit its services to their needs. The American people expect and deserve the best services their government can offer. For example, with respect to the subprime mortgage crisis, we held a hearing that examined the situation facing subprime borrowers and what agencies funded by this bill – specifically Treasury and the Federal Trade Commission – could do to address this situation. The Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund helps expand the availability of credit, capital and financial services to underserved communities throughout the nation, including those particularly hard hit by the credit crisis. The subcommittee also held a hearing on election administration issues, where we told the Commissioners of the Election Assistance Commission that they need to use their bully pulpit to make reliable, accurate, and accessible elections a top priority. Regarding consumer issues, we felt that more can be done to protect consumers and so told the Consumer Product Safety Commission to strengthen its consumer product monitoring capabilities. I feel that through these hearings and through the funding initiatives and Congressional guidance contained in this bill, government will be more responsive and more proactive on behalf of the American people whom it serves. The subcommittee’s budget allocation is $22.39 billion. That is the amount provided in this Chairman’s mark. This is a tight but fair allocation. While it is $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2008 level, about $400 million of that increase is due to accounts that have come into our bill this year that were not in the bill last year. Further, the allocation is tight because our ability to move money around is limited. More than 80 percent of this bill funds basic administrative accounts, such as the salaries of Treasury employees who are managing the Nation’s finances. These accounts cannot be reduced without reducing the most basic and essential government services. There were also a number of holes in the President’s budget that needed to be filled. This bill directs funding to programs where we believe money will be well spent and will benefit, for example, disadvantaged communities and small businesses. These are important priorities that need to be increased from the President’s budget and that are provided for within our allocation. However, our allocation is only $150 million, or less than one percent, above the President’s budget. We had to make some hard choices within this allocation and, unfortunately, were not able to do a lot of things Members would have liked us to do. To summarize, this bill includes $12.6 billion for the Department of the Treasury. Within this amount, $11.4 billion is for the IRS, a $304 million increase above fiscal year 2008 and $37 million above the President’s request. This increase includes more money than requested for taxpayer services and the IRS Taxpayer Advocate’s office. The bill also includes $105 million for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund to increase economic development and financial opportunities for people living in disadvantaged communities. The bill includes nearly $700 million for the Executive Office of the President. Within this amount, $1.4 million is for the Office of National AIDS Policy so it can move forward to develop a National AIDS Strategy. Also within the amount, $422 million is directed to the Office of National Drug Control Policy and its programs. This includes increases above the requested levels for the Drug-Free Communities grants program and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program. The Judicial branch is funded at $6.5 billion in this bill, which is $304 million above 2008 but $196 million below the request. While this is a reduction to the requested level, we believe that the amount in the bill will be sufficient to fund all necessary operations and staffing levels for the Judiciary. Programs related to the District of Columbia would receive $712 million, or $102 million above fiscal year 2008. The total includes $74 million for DC schools. Within this amount, public schools would receive $41.2 million, an increase of $28.2 million over last year. The mark funds the DC opportunity scholarship program at the current year’s level. The District of Columbia Court system would be allocated $301 million. Within this figure, the bill assumes an increase in the reimbursement for attorneys who defend indigent clients so that these clients have a greater opportunity for proper representation. The bill also includes funding for the DC Tuition Assistance Grant program, the water and sewer authority, construction of a forensic lab, library improvements, and other items requested by the DC government. In this mark, I have continued my basic philosophy that the Federal government should not dictate to the District how to manage its own affairs or spend its own money. We have further reduced the number of riders from last year, and have rejected the Administration’s proposal to reinstitute the ban on the use of local funding for needle exchange programs and on funding for the District to lobby Congress for voting representation or statehood. The recommended bill includes funding for numerous independent agencies. Some, including the General Services Administration and the Office of Personnel Management, support government-wide functions and are essential to the day-to-day operations of the entire government. Other agencies are small but play a critical role for our nation. For example, the Election Assistance Commission deals with issues that are extraordinarily important to the nation and the ability of voters to have confidence that their votes are counted accurately. This bill includes $110 million for payments to States to help them meet the requirements of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, as well as additional funding for research and testing of voting systems. This funding is a statement of Congressional intent to help ensure that the elections process is fair, accessible, and accurate. The bill also includes funds for important regulatory agencies, namely the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission. We have provided a total of $83 million in increases above fiscal year 2008 for these agencies, and we are recommending funding to ensure that they have the ability to oversee, investigate, and take necessary actions relating to their respective missions. For example, the Consumer Product Safety Commission would receive $20 million above this year’s level to enhance consumer protection activities, including improving the safety of pools and spas so that tragedies involving child drowning can be prevented, and ensuring that products imported into the country are safe. Another vitally important agency in this bill is the Small Business Administration. The bill includes $880 million for the SBA, including $110 million for Small Business Development Centers, $100 million to support loan guarantees, and $22.5 million for direct loans and technical assistance to the smallest companies. The recommendation also provides funding for SBA programs that target disadvantaged and low-income communities and entrepreneurs, including the HUBZone program, the PRIME program, and the 7(j) program. This bill also includes numerous general provisions that apply to funds in the Act or government-wide. The mark includes some new initiatives that will address some ongoing congressional concerns. It includes, for example, a one-year moratorium on new competitive sourcing – also known as A-76 – activities. The provision halts this Administration’s controversial and detrimental Federal workforce program until the next Administration has had an opportunity to consider and implement its own workforce policies. Another provision in this bill relating to the Federal workforce is the annual civilian employee cost-of-living adjustment. The recommendation is for a 3.9 percent adjustment, which is the same as the adjustment the House approved for military personnel and higher than the 2.9 percent increase the President recommended. The mark also contains a provision to prohibit funds from being used in support of the IRS private debt collection program. Under this very misguided and wasteful program, the IRS allows private contractors to collect unpaid taxes and to keep up to 24 percent of the tax revenue they bring in. This program should be terminated. The bill would also prohibit funds from being used to implement or enforce the Federal Communications Commission’s recent changes to the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rules. I believe that the loosening of media consolidation rules is detrimental to the goals of diversity in ownership and viewpoints, as well as to localism and independence in the news media. This mark also includes provisions to liberalize travel to Cuba for Americans who have family members living in that nation. There is no reason to place harsh restrictions on those who simply wish to visit close family members. In addition, the bill contains a provision to facilitate agricultural trade with Cuba, allowing more American farmers to sell their products to Cuba. I believe that this is a good bill that allows us, within the allocation that we were given, to make some important funding and policy choices to improve the services that our government agencies provide to our constituents as they pay their taxes, purchase products, and start their own small businesses. Compromises have been made, but the final product is one that we as a Subcommittee can be proud to move forward to the full Committee. ###
06.17.2008	For Immediate Release: June 17, 2008 Contact: Matt Alpert or Philip Schmidt, (202) 225-4361 Today the subcommittee will mark up the fiscal year 2009 bill. I am pleased to present the Chairman’s mark for the subcommittee’s consideration. The proposed bill and report, as well as a summary, are before you. Your staff has also been briefed on the bill. The printed bill and report are embargoed until they are circulated to Members prior to full Committee markup, so subcommittee staff will be collecting them today after this markup. I ask your cooperation in leaving the copies of the bill and report on the table. In a moment I will describe what is included in the Chairman’s mark, but first I would like to again turn to my friend and colleague, Mr. Regula, to thank him for his hard work and collaboration. I know we may not be in agreement on everything in this bill, but we have worked together to develop the best possible bill. This Subcommittee held multiple hearings in the spring to explore the issues facing agencies funded through this bill. As the hearings progressed, it became clear that this Subcommittee could do many things to bring government closer to the people, to better fit its services to their needs. The American people expect and deserve the best services their government can offer. For example, with respect to the subprime mortgage crisis, we held a hearing that examined the situation facing subprime borrowers and what agencies funded by this bill – specifically Treasury and the Federal Trade Commission – could do to address this situation. The Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund helps expand the availability of credit, capital and financial services to underserved communities throughout the nation, including those particularly hard hit by the credit crisis. The subcommittee also held a hearing on election administration issues, where we told the Commissioners of the Election Assistance Commission that they need to use their bully pulpit to make reliable, accurate, and accessible elections a top priority. Regarding consumer issues, we felt that more can be done to protect consumers and so told the Consumer Product Safety Commission to strengthen its consumer product monitoring capabilities. I feel that through these hearings and through the funding initiatives and Congressional guidance contained in this bill, government will be more responsive and more proactive on behalf of the American people whom it serves. The subcommittee’s budget allocation is $22.39 billion. That is the amount provided in this Chairman’s mark. This is a tight but fair allocation. While it is $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2008 level, about $400 million of that increase is due to accounts that have come into our bill this year that were not in the bill last year. Further, the allocation is tight because our ability to move money around is limited. More than 80 percent of this bill funds basic administrative accounts, such as the salaries of Treasury employees who are managing the Nation’s finances. These accounts cannot be reduced without reducing the most basic and essential government services. There were also a number of holes in the President’s budget that needed to be filled. This bill directs funding to programs where we believe money will be well spent and will benefit, for example, disadvantaged communities and small businesses. These are important priorities that need to be increased from the President’s budget and that are provided for within our allocation. However, our allocation is only $150 million, or less than one percent, above the President’s budget. We had to make some hard choices within this allocation and, unfortunately, were not able to do a lot of things Members would have liked us to do. To summarize, this bill includes $12.6 billion for the Department of the Treasury. Within this amount, $11.4 billion is for the IRS, a $304 million increase above fiscal year 2008 and $37 million above the President’s request. This increase includes more money than requested for taxpayer services and the IRS Taxpayer Advocate’s office. The bill also includes $105 million for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund to increase economic development and financial opportunities for people living in disadvantaged communities. The bill includes nearly $700 million for the Executive Office of the President. Within this amount, $1.4 million is for the Office of National AIDS Policy so it can move forward to develop a National AIDS Strategy. Also within the amount, $422 million is directed to the Office of National Drug Control Policy and its programs. This includes increases above the requested levels for the Drug-Free Communities grants program and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program. The Judicial branch is funded at $6.5 billion in this bill, which is $304 million above 2008 but $196 million below the request. While this is a reduction to the requested level, we believe that the amount in the bill will be sufficient to fund all necessary operations and staffing levels for the Judiciary. Programs related to the District of Columbia would receive $712 million, or $102 million above fiscal year 2008. The total includes $74 million for DC schools. Within this amount, public schools would receive $41.2 million, an increase of $28.2 million over last year. The mark funds the DC opportunity scholarship program at the current year’s level. The District of Columbia Court system would be allocated $301 million. Within this figure, the bill assumes an increase in the reimbursement for attorneys who defend indigent clients so that these clients have a greater opportunity for proper representation. The bill also includes funding for the DC Tuition Assistance Grant program, the water and sewer authority, construction of a forensic lab, library improvements, and other items requested by the DC government. In this mark, I have continued my basic philosophy that the Federal government should not dictate to the District how to manage its own affairs or spend its own money. We have further reduced the number of riders from last year, and have rejected the Administration’s proposal to reinstitute the ban on the use of local funding for needle exchange programs and on funding for the District to lobby Congress for voting representation or statehood. The recommended bill includes funding for numerous independent agencies. Some, including the General Services Administration and the Office of Personnel Management, support government-wide functions and are essential to the day-to-day operations of the entire government. Other agencies are small but play a critical role for our nation. For example, the Election Assistance Commission deals with issues that are extraordinarily important to the nation and the ability of voters to have confidence that their votes are counted accurately. This bill includes $110 million for payments to States to help them meet the requirements of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, as well as additional funding for research and testing of voting systems. This funding is a statement of Congressional intent to help ensure that the elections process is fair, accessible, and accurate. The bill also includes funds for important regulatory agencies, namely the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission. We have provided a total of $83 million in increases above fiscal year 2008 for these agencies, and we are recommending funding to ensure that they have the ability to oversee, investigate, and take necessary actions relating to their respective missions. For example, the Consumer Product Safety Commission would receive $20 million above this year’s level to enhance consumer protection activities, including improving the safety of pools and spas so that tragedies involving child drowning can be prevented, and ensuring that products imported into the country are safe. Another vitally important agency in this bill is the Small Business Administration. The bill includes $880 million for the SBA, including $110 million for Small Business Development Centers, $100 million to support loan guarantees, and $22.5 million for direct loans and technical assistance to the smallest companies. The recommendation also provides funding for SBA programs that target disadvantaged and low-income communities and entrepreneurs, including the HUBZone program, the PRIME program, and the 7(j) program. This bill also includes numerous general provisions that apply to funds in the Act or government-wide. The mark includes some new initiatives that will address some ongoing congressional concerns. It includes, for example, a one-year moratorium on new competitive sourcing – also known as A-76 – activities. The provision halts this Administration’s controversial and detrimental Federal workforce program until the next Administration has had an opportunity to consider and implement its own workforce policies. Another provision in this bill relating to the Federal workforce is the annual civilian employee cost-of-living adjustment. The recommendation is for a 3.9 percent adjustment, which is the same as the adjustment the House approved for military personnel and higher than the 2.9 percent increase the President recommended. The mark also contains a provision to prohibit funds from being used in support of the IRS private debt collection program. Under this very misguided and wasteful program, the IRS allows private contractors to collect unpaid taxes and to keep up to 24 percent of the tax revenue they bring in. This program should be terminated. The bill would also prohibit funds from being used to implement or enforce the Federal Communications Commission’s recent changes to the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rules. I believe that the loosening of media consolidation rules is detrimental to the goals of diversity in ownership and viewpoints, as well as to localism and independence in the news media. This mark also includes provisions to liberalize travel to Cuba for Americans who have family members living in that nation. There is no reason to place harsh restrictions on those who simply wish to visit close family members. In addition, the bill contains a provision to facilitate agricultural trade with Cuba, allowing more American farmers to sell their products to Cuba. I believe that this is a good bill that allows us, within the allocation that we were given, to make some important funding and policy choices to improve the services that our government agencies provide to our constituents as they pay their taxes, purchase products, and start their own small businesses. Compromises have been made, but the final product is one that we as a Subcommittee can be proud to move forward to the full Committee. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990.
06.13.2008	Washington, DC – June 13, 2008 –Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement today on the news of Tim Russert’s passing. “We lost Tim Russert today. He was a friend who I knew since his days as a staff member for several NY elected officials. In the early days, a young Tim Russert and a fairly new Assemblyman Serrano would be asked by the State Democratic Party to talk to the press after debates on behalf of mayoral, gubernatorial, or presidential candidates. We both agreed at the time that it would be more fun to discuss sports with the press. In his capacity with both Senator Moynihan and Governor Cuomo, we worked on everything from Bronx concerns to issues dealing with Puerto Rico . One of the highlights of my career was an interview by Tim, on Meet the Press, during the Elian Gonzalez controversy. “Tim loved New York . He loved politics. He adored his dad ‘Big Russ’ and boy did he love his Buffalo Bills. We have lost a special person.” ###
06.06.2008	Serrano to Give Keynote Speech at NWBCCC Annual Meeting, Help Dedicate New Arts Education Center at Bronx Museum of the Arts Please Note These are Two Separate Events *** Friday, June 6 7 p.m. – National Puerto Rican Day Parade Annual Pre-Banquet Reception Marriott Marquis Hotel, 1535 Broadway, New York, NY OPEN PRESS 8 p.m. – National Puerto Rican Day Parade Annual Gala Banquet Marriott Marquis Hotel, 1535 Broadway, New York, NY OPEN PRESS Saturday, June 7 12 p.m. – 4 p.m. – Festival De La Calle 116 116th Street between 3rd Avenue & Lexington Avenue (Look for red canopy & Serrano banner) Congressman Serrano will visit the booth of his son, State Senator José M. Serrano, who represents East Harlem and the South Bronx. Sunday, June 8 8 a.m. – National Puerto Rican Day Parade Annual Breakfast Marriott Marquis Hotel, 1535 Broadway, New York, NY OPEN PRESS 11 a.m. – National Puerto Rican Day Parade Fifth Avenue, from 44th to 86th Streets Congressman Serrano and Senator Jose Serrano will march together. ###
05.31.2008	Please Note These are Two Separate Events Serrano to Give Keynote Address At Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition Annual Meeting WHO: Congressman Serrano, board and members of NWBCCC WHEN: Saturday, May 31, 2008 11:00 a.m WHERE: St. Nicholas of Tolentine Church, 2435 University Avenue, The Bronx, NY. WHAT: Congressman Serrano will address the themes of “Shared Fate & Community Values” at the annual meeting of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition. He will touch on issues facing The Bronx, New York City and our nation. Serrano has long been a supporter of the NWBCCC’s mission of community building and neighborhood revitalization. *** Serrano to Help Dedicate New Arts Education Center at Bronx Museum of the Arts WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Holly Block, Executive Director of the Bronx Museum of the Arts; Douglass Rice, Chair, Board of Trustees, Bronx Museum of the Arts. WHEN: Saturday, May 31, 2008 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will help dedicate the new children’s art education center in new North Wing Bronx Museum of the Arts. He will be recognized for his support for the museum, and their arts and education programming with a plaque installation ceremony. ###
05.28.2008	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Lisa Winters, Executive Director, The Bronx Community Pride Center; other local officials. WHEN: Thursday evening, May 29th, 2008 WHERE: Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1046 Grand Concourse (at 165th Street), The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will be given the 'HERO' Award during an awards ceremony on Thursday for his work on gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender issues over the years. Serrano has made an effort to help this underserved community during his 32 years in public office.
05.28.2008	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Lisa Winters, Executive Director, The Bronx Community Pride Center; other local officials. WHEN: Thursday evening, May 29th, 2008 WHERE: Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1046 Grand Concourse (at 165th Street), The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will be given the 'HERO' Award during an awards ceremony on Thursday for his work on gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender issues over the years. Serrano has made an effort to help this underserved community during his 32 years in public office.
05.21.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement today on the news of Senator Edward Kennedy’s cancer diagnosis. “My thoughts and prayers are with Senator Kennedy and his family, as they take on this new fight. Senator Kennedy has led this party, this Congress and our nation for many years, and I’m sure he’ll show the same qualities as he fights this illness. He and his family have been an inspiration to many Americans, including me. He can rest assured that he is not alone in this. We all will be behind him 110 percent.”
05.21.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement today on the news of Senator Edward Kennedy’s cancer diagnosis. “My thoughts and prayers are with Senator Kennedy and his family, as they take on this new fight. Senator Kennedy has led this party, this Congress and our nation for many years, and I’m sure he’ll show the same qualities as he fights this illness. He and his family have been an inspiration to many Americans, including me. He can rest assured that he is not alone in this. We all will be behind him 110 percent.”
05.15.2008	In a series of votes on amendments today, Congressman José E. Serrano voted against funding the war, in favor of an amendment to place conditions on the Iraq war and to fund a new GI Bill of Rights. Following the votes, Congressman Serrano issued the following statement. “By refusing to end the Iraq War, President Bush again has forced Congress to vote on funding the conflict. The American people in their majority stand with those of us who voted to bring the troops home. They believe, as I do, that we cannot afford to lose another life in Iraq. They believe, as I do, that this war cannot be won militarily. ” “Today we were finally able to vote down an amendment funding the Iraq War. I have been longing for this day since this horribly misguided war began. With many of my colleagues, I now call on the President to follow our lead and begin to bring the troops home. “In our second vote, we placed a series of stringent restrictions on any continuation of the Iraq War—including perhaps the most important, the requirement that the troops be out in 18 months. “We also were also able to pass new benefits for veterans. There is not anything more important to show our troops how much we appreciate their service than to give them the benefits they’ve earned and deserve when they come home. They should never be nickel-and-dimed. “Our troops have done the task assigned to them with honor and bravery. It is long-past time that politicians here in Washington behaved similarly. Today’s vote showed enough have summoned up that courage. Now we wonder if the President can do the same. “It is time to bring the troops home. It may be that we will have to wait for a new Administration, but that will not stop me from saying loudly, clearly and repeatedly that this war must end.” ###
05.14.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement after the House passed the Farm Bill today, which contained numerous provisions supporting nutrition and food stamp programs. “With families under financial stress in this sagging economy, the step we took today to support nutrition and food assistance programs will help families keep food on the table,” Serrano said. “We cannot underestimate the needs of our working families; and among those needs, addressing hunger must be of the utmost priority for politicians of all stripes. This bill will have direct benefits for people in the Bronx. I was happy to support it.” The following facts summarize the key portions of the nutrition and food assistance program sections of the Farm Bill, which passed the House 318-106. $10.4 billion in new spending goes to nutrition programs that help 38 million American families afford healthy food. The bill updates the food stamp program with provisions that will help about 11 million people by 2012. Households with children receive 77% of food stamp benefits. The measure eliminates the current cap on childcare costs, provides incentives for families to save for retirement or education, and makes sure that the families of soldiers in combat are not penalized under the food stamp program. It increases the standard deduction and indexes it to inflation to help needy families afford food as prices increase in the future. The minimum benefit would be increased for the first time in 30 years and would continue to rise in the future to keep up with actual food prices.The bill provides much-needed support to emergency feeding organizations, such as food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens, which play such an important role in our Bronx community. The Emergency Food Assistance Program will see its funding increased by $1.25 billion – with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. Finally, the bill will help schools provide healthy snacks to students, with $1 billion for free fresh fruits and vegetables. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He has long sought to fight hunger and food insecurity, most recently with his bill H.R.206, the Anti-Hunger Empowerment Act of 2007.
05.12.2008	WHO: José E. Serrano, United States House of Representatives Alan C. Kessler, Chairman, Board of Governors, United States Postal ServiceNancy Sinatra, daughter of Frank SinatraFrank Sinatra, Jr., son of Frank SinatraA.J. Lambert, granddaughter of Frank SinatraDavid E. Failor, Executive Director, Stamp Services, United States Postal ServiceMarie Therese Dominguez, Vice President Government Relations, USPS WHEN: Tuesday, May 13, 2008 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 1356 Broadway at 36th Street, New York, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will join the U.S. Postal Service and the Sinatra family to unveil the new Frank Sinatra commemorative stamp. Congressman Serrano is a lifelong fan of the “chairman of the board” and will give brief remarks on the meaning of the life and works of this great entertainer and humanitarian. In 1997, Serrano obtained a Congressional Gold Medal for Sinatra. ###
04.24.2008	In a letter to Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig sent today, Congressman José E. Serrano asked that Major League Baseball rethink its arrangement for signing prospective players from Puerto Rico. Serrano feels that including Puerto Rican players in the regular draft keeps them from having the opportunity to fully realize their potential. The text of the letter follows. *** April 24, 2008 Commissioner Allan H. "Bud" Selig The Office of the Commissioner of Baseball 777 East Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 3060 Milwaukee, WI 53202 Dear Commissioner Selig: As we discussed at a recent Congressional hearing, I am concerned about whether Puerto Rico is being unfairly caught in limbo between the process for recruiting players that exists in the rest of the Caribbean and the one that prevails in the rest of the United States. Puerto Rican players have made great contributions to the history of baseball and I think that it is important that we nurture this important source of talent and encourage their continued contributions to the game. Prior to 1990 players from Puerto Rico were free agents, which is how foreign players continue to be treated. Since 1990, however, Puerto Rican players have been drafted. Now after 20 years, I think that we can clearly see that this change in signing policies has not been in the best interest of either Puerto Rico or Major League Baseball. If we do not act, I am afraid that in ten years we will be wondering what happened to the Puerto Rican ballplayer, and the lack of Puerto Rican major leaguers could dampen enthusiasm for the game on the island. Because of the unique combination of its relationship to the United States and its location in the Caribbean Puerto Rico faces a unique set of challenges in encouraging its aspiring baseball players to succeed. One particular challenge is that in recent years players drafted out of college have been significantly more successful at reaching the major leagues than have been players drafted out of high school. However, because of language barriers a much smaller percentage of Puerto Rican players attend college on the mainland. Therefore, they miss out on the opportunity to develop their skills at this level and the attendant prospects for national exposure. To address this situation I believe that baseball should begin by ending the draft in Puerto Rico and return to free agency. After that has been done, Major League Baseball should work actively with interested Puerto Rican players and other baseball people on the island to develop programs that encourage participation in baseball at all levels. Steps should also be taken to ensure that the best players have the opportunity to develop the skills they will need to succeed at the highest level. In short, I think that baseball can help to improve the game by taking into account the various challenges and opportunities presented by different areas throughout the United States and around the world. This awareness of local conditions will allow for innovative solutions that increase participation in baseball at all levels. As an ardent baseball fan, I appreciate the efforts Major League Baseball has made to expand the sport outside of its traditional areas and welcome the improvements this brings to the game. However, as we do this, we should continue to strengthen the sport in its traditional hot beds from the sand lots and pastures of the United States to the island of Puerto Rico and throughout the Caribbean. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
04.23.2008	In a ceremony in his office this morning, NETWORK, A Catholic Social Justice Lobby, honored Congressman José E. Serrano for his 100 percent vote rating on their issues. They noted that out of 435 Members of the House of Representatives only 36 received this rating for the first session of the 110th Congress. “I was honored to receive this award, because it highlights my personal commitment to social justice,” Serrano said. “One of the main teachings of the Catholic Church on which I have relied in my 34 years in public office is that we must be guardians of the less fortunate and the downtrodden. The good people at NETWORK mentioned that some of the votes they scored were ‘hard votes,’ but I felt that while some may have been politically difficult; in terms of social conscience, they were easy choices. I commend NETWORK for the work they do to highlight these vital issues, and to remind us politicians that there is far more than just a political calculation when we vote.” Sister Simone Campbell, SSS, NETWORK Director, stated, “NETWORK congratulates Representative Serrano for maintaining a principled commitment to just government policies and programs. By supporting efforts for affordable housing, adequate nutrition, fair and just tax policy, and ethical agreements Representative Serrano has earned the appreciation and respect of the faith-based social justice community.” ###
04.17.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano reaffirmed his support for the right to organize in a letter to drivers employed by Hunts Point-based Baldor Specialty Foods. The drivers, who have been joined by the Teamsters in a campaign to unionize Baldor workers, are preparing for upcoming union elections. Serrano said that “strong unions are the first and best hope for working people in America,” and are “essential to rebuilding our nation’s middle class.” The full text of the letter follows. *** April 17, 2008 Baldor Driversc/o Local 202 TeamstersNYC Terminal Market Room #12A, Row BThe Bronx, NY 10474 Dear Baldor Drivers, As you and your co-workers prepare for an upcoming union election, I want you to know that you have my full support. As workers, you have many rights, but none is more sacred than your right to organize. I believe that labor unions like the Teamsters allow employees and management to work together in a more fair and productive manner. Unions like the Teamsters fight to ensure that the voices of workers are heard so that at the end of the day, working men and women are treated with the dignity and respect they deserve. Strong unions are the first and best hope for working people in America, and they are essential to rebuilding our nation’s middle class. Regardless of what an employer or supervisor may tell you, federal law gives you the right to decide for yourself—free from intimidation and harassment—whether to join a union. It is a human right won by hardworking men and women just like you. Every day, you and your co-workers make an important and valuable contribution to not only the success of Baldor, but also the community and local economy. Rest assured that I will be watching this situation closely and will do all in my power to help. Sincerely yours, José E. SerranoMember of Congress ###
04.16.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano today said he was “pleased to have been able to include Puerto Rico” in the economic stimulus package, the details of which were to be announced on the island this morning. “I always said that Puerto Rico and the other territories had to be included in an economic stimulus package and I was pleased to have been able to convince Congressional leadership and the Treasury Department to do so,” Serrano said. “Today I heard the details of the package, as worked out between the U.S. Treasury and the Puerto Rican government. The plan is good and will help the people of Puerto Rico. “The most important detail is getting those checks into the hands of the Puerto Rican people as quickly as possible. The people are feeling the effect of the economic downturn and these tax rebate checks could not come at a better time. “I am glad I was able to help the people of Puerto Rico, who still live in the land where I was born, during these difficult times. My parents had to leave the island because of economic problems. I hope these tax rebates help others to keep afloat economically.” ###
04.15.2008	At a hearing Congressman José E. Serrano chaired today, he commemorated the life and accomplishments of Jackie Robinson by displaying his number 42, and speaking about the meaning the great ballplayer had for the nation. Jackie Robinson played his first game in the Major Leagues on April 15, 1947. “Jackie Robinson was more than the first black man to play in the Major Leagues; he was also a trailblazer in the Army,” Serrano said. “Robinson opened the nation’s mind to the idea that black people were equals to their white counterparts. His quiet dignity and outstanding play in the face of relentless abuse was a testament to the power of truth and justice. He showed us that turning the other cheek was indeed the best manner to respond to insult. And this was just on the baseball field.” “We often forget that Jackie Robinson was a Lieutenant in the Army, and faced down discrimination there too. In fact, he confronted a situation in which he was told to move to the back of a segregated bus despite being an officer. Robinson refused on principle and was arrested by the military police and court-martialed. He was later acquitted by a jury of the charges, and later honorably discharged. “This brave act of defiance in the face of clear injustice was a glimmer of what was to come when he took the field for the Brooklyn Dodgers a few years later. It was in Brooklyn that his athletic prowess left the bigots and naysayers without their usual arguments against integration. “Through his All-Star baseball career and his Army service, Jackie Robinson was the model of dignity in the face of a deep-rooted and widespread discrimination. He broke the color barrier in baseball, and stood up for justice in the Army. He was truly a great American.” ###
04.11.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano today reiterated his opposition to City plans to build a new jail in the southern end of the Bronx. Local papers reported that the City wrote to Community Board 2, asking for a meeting to present a newly-revised proposal for a jail. “Our community has said no to a new jail once before and will continue to do so,” Serrano said. “What these officials seem to believe is that if they just get the details of the proposal right, community opposition will melt away. That’s not the case. And it shows that they are missing the point: we will not accept a new jail in the South Bronx of any size or design. We’ve borne the burden of hosting much of the city’s infrastructure, facilities, and heavy industries for years, and we’ve had enough.” “On top of it all, the symbolism of building a new jail shows a lack of faith in our community. The Bronx is on the rise. Our community is rebuilding for a better future – a more positive and hope-filled future. We need good jobs, clean industries, schools, art museums, and new parks and greenways, not new jails. We are fighting for hope. We are fighting against pessimism. We will not stop fighting a new jail.” ###
04.01.2008	Serrano Presides as Speaker Pro Tempore During Debate on MeasureToday, Congressman José E. Serrano presided over the U.S. House of Representatives as the body voted in favor of a resolution in remembrance of the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Serrano said that presiding over the House during the passage of this measure was “a great honor.” “The resolution we passed today urges all Americans to pause and remember the life and teachings of Dr. Martin Luther King, who was murdered 40 years ago today,” Serrano said. “I had the great honor to preside over the House during the debate and vote on this measure. I was deeply moved by the content of that debate, and the content of the resolution. Like many of my colleagues, Dr. King’s example and teachings had a great influence on my life’s work. “Dr. King showed us how to stand up for justice and truth while remaining true to our roots as a democratic people. Forty years after his death, we are still trying to live up to his example, and to implement all his teachings. We have come a long way since he died, but we still have a long way to go. In that path towards justice and equality, we must often stop and question whether we are following in Dr. King’s footsteps. Today provides such an opportunity and we should to take a moment to rededicate ourselves to the ideals and practices that Dr. King taught.” ###
03.25.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the need to end the noxious odors released by the New York Organic Fertilizer Company (NYOFCo) pelletizing plant in the Hunts Point neighborhood of the Bronx: “For too many years the South Bronx has been the repository for the industries and activities that other parts of the City don’t want in their backyard. The noxious odors that come from the NYOFCo pelletizing plant are a daily reminder to residents of the South Bronx that our fight for environmental justice must continue. “Mothers on the Move’s imaginative and moving approach to raising awareness of this injustice highlighted the unreasonable burden that the NYOFCo facility places on the residents in surrounding neighborhoods. I was moved to learn that one woman at the event spoke eloquently about being unable to even hang her laundry out to dry because of the fumes emitted by the plant. This event will bolster all of our efforts to end the terrible odors and air pollution that still plague our neighborhoods. “In November, 2006, I called for the shutdown of NYOFCo since it was then operating without a permit from the State of New York. It continues to operate without this permit and daily fouls the air of our neighborhoods. I will redouble my efforts to work with city, state, and federal authorities to bring this plant into compliance. If it cannot comply with operating regulations, it must be shut down.” ###
03.25.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the need to end the noxious odors released by the New York Organic Fertilizer Company (NYOFCo) pelletizing plant in the Hunts Point neighborhood of the Bronx: “For too many years the South Bronx has been the repository for the industries and activities that other parts of the City don’t want in their backyard. The noxious odors that come from the NYOFCo pelletizing plant are a daily reminder to residents of the South Bronx that our fight for environmental justice must continue. “Mothers on the Move’s imaginative and moving approach to raising awareness of this injustice highlighted the unreasonable burden that the NYOFCo facility places on the residents in surrounding neighborhoods. I was moved to learn that one woman at the event spoke eloquently about being unable to even hang her laundry out to dry because of the fumes emitted by the plant. This event will bolster all of our efforts to end the terrible odors and air pollution that still plague our neighborhoods. “In November, 2006, I called for the shutdown of NYOFCo since it was then operating without a permit from the State of New York. It continues to operate without this permit and daily fouls the air of our neighborhoods. I will redouble my efforts to work with city, state, and federal authorities to bring this plant into compliance. If it cannot comply with operating regulations, it must be shut down.” ###
03.19.2008	oday, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the 5th anniversary of the invasion of : “Five years ago, this President launched a misguided war based on falsehoods. It is a war that has now cost us almost 4,000 lives and $600 billion- and these numbers continue to rise. It is a war that was started with a stunning lack of preparation for the occupation that would follow. It is a war that has hindered our efforts in , and made our allies in the region less safe. It is a war that has lowered our standing in the world and has damaged our historic alliances with nations who were once stalwart friends. And finally, it is a war that has produced no compelling evidence of making our homeland safer from those who wish us harm. For all these reasons, it is a war that should never have been started, and should immediately be ended. “Our troops have done an admirable job given the lack of planning from the leadership in Washington. My heart also goes out to all those who have been killed or wounded in this conflict, and to their families and friends who have been impacted. We will continue to work to provide our veterans and their loved ones with the support they need.“By now we all know of the surge that has reduced some of the violence in Iraq. But no increase in the number of troops, however great, can bring about the national reconciliation in that is needed to address the decades of grievances that are today piled up on the streets of Baghdad and throughout that nation.“Five years ago we invaded under false pretenses and without a plan for what came next. Today, we must realize that the next step should be to bring our troops home." ###
03.17.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement upon the swearing-in of Governor Designate David A. Paterson. “I was proud to watch my friend David Paterson take the oath of office on this momentous day for the people of New York State,” said Serrano. “David is an outstanding public servant, who has earned the trust and respect of his many colleagues and friends. I have no doubt that he will be successful in this newest endeavor, and I hope to help him in any way I can.” “Our state has many issues that must be dealt with, starting today- and I know David will take on the job with the tenacity and good humor that he has always brought to his work on behalf of the people of New York. I am confident that he will be able to help bridge partisan divides and move our state forward. “This is a particularly historic day for Harlem, for New York City, and for the state. A son of one of Harlem’s brightest lights is breaking barriers today- we can all be proud of his achievements so far, and I look forward to his many more achievements in the years to come. I wish Governor Paterson all the best, and I look forward to working closely with him to help New York State continue to grow and prosper.” ###
03.12.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on New York Governor Eliot Spitzer’s decision to resign. “In stepping down, Governor Spitzer made a difficult decision for the good of New York State and his family,” Serrano said. “Today is a sad day, because Governor Spitzer had great potential to change the way business is done in Albany. “Governor Spitzer worked very diligently and tenaciously on the problems faced by New Yorkers both in his role as Governor and as Attorney General. We are all deeply grateful for that service. I hope that he can be remembered for all he did in those years—especially his staunch support of the rights of immigrants. “My thoughts are with Governor Spitzer and his family as he deals with this difficult time. I commend him for putting the good of his family and the State ahead of any personal ambitions. I wish him all the best and thank him for his service.” ###
03.10.2008	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on the Consumer Product Safety Commission, Tuesday, March 11, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witnesses: Nancy NordActing Chairman Consumer Product Safety Commission Thomas MooreCommissionerConsumer Product Safety Commission ###
03.09.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano questioned the Federal Communications Commission Chairman, Kevin Martin, on a variety of issues, extracting commitments to look at several issues regarding the potential XM-Sirius merger. “I asked Chairman Martin a variety of questions, but felt that we really made progress on the issues I see surrounding the possible XM-Sirius merger,” said Serrano, who is the Chair of the House Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the FCC. “I am supportive of this merger and sought to ensure that consumers are not harmed and that service is expanded rather than reduced.” Serrano asked Martin if “consumers will be forced to buy new equipment if a merger were to occur” because he was “concerned about the effect this would have.” Martin replied that this would be an issue the FCC would examine as it considers this merger. XM and Sirius are largely unavailable in the U.S. territories, which is something that has always concerned Chairman Serrano who uses his Appropriations Chairmanship to remind agency heads to remember to include everyone who lives under the U.S. flag. Serrano asked Martin if the FCC “would consider requiring as a term of the merger that service be expanded to include the territories.” Martin replied that it would also be an issue the FCC would scrutinize, and agreed that it was a problem that the territories are often left out of service coverage in many areas. Serrano said he “often wonders whether the territories are intentionally left out or just forgotten about” and vowed to “do everything he can to ensure that they are treated fairly and with respect.” Serrano also asked Martin if the merged company would be subjected to FCC broadcast decency rules. Martin said that the FCC had no plans to do so. Finally Serrano asked Martin if the FCC would “ensure diversity in programming” in a merger situation, noting that he “feels that we should move to support diversity in programming and hosts.” Martin answered that he was certain that the FCC was committed to diversity too, and would look into this issue as well. “I’m satisfied that Chairman Martin will seek to address the issues that I raised today regarding the merger,” Serrano concluded. “We must be very cautious in this type of large scale merger that consumers of all backgrounds and locations have their interests considered and protected.”###
03.07.2008	WHO: Congressman José E. SerranoNancy Nord, Acting Chairman Consumer Product Safety CommissionMichael Alvarez, Chief Librarian, Bronx Library Center WHEN: 1 p.m. – Monday, March 10, 2008 WHERE: Bronx Library Center4th Floor310 East Kingsbridge Road [at Briggs Avenue]Bronx, NY 10458 WHAT: Congressman José Serrano, will join the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and The New York Public Library to urge local residents to sign up for CPSC’s life-saving product safety alerts and information. The alerts are available via email—and the CPSC is in the midst of a campaign to sign up more the 1 million consumers for the alert network.###
03.06.2008	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Jose R. Sanchez, Sr. Vice President and Lincoln Hospital Executive Director; Dr. Anita Soni, Medical Director, Lincoln Hospital; Dr. Ray Mercado, Chief of Obstetrics, Lincoln Hospital; George Rodriguez, Chair of Community Advisory Board, Lincoln Hospital. WHEN: Friday March 7, 2008 – 3 P.M. WHERE: Maternity and Nursing Atrium, 5th Floor, 5B,Lincoln Hospital, 234 E. 149th Street with Morris Avenue, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will present a check to Lincoln Hospital Center for new fetal monitoring equipment. Serrano secured the funds for the much-needed equipment in the 2008 federal budget. Lincoln Hospital is known for “aggressively tackling many important community health issues such as asthma, obesity, cancer, diabetes and tuberculosis [as well as] innovative programs addressing the specific needs of the community it serves.” Neonatal care is one of Lincoln Hospital’s specialties and the new equipment will enable the program to provide continued top-quality care. ###
03.04.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the City’s announcement yesterday that the Oak Point prison proposal has been withdrawn. Serrano led opposition to the plan, working through public and private channels to kill it. “We had a major victory in the South Bronx today, as we heard that the misguided plan to put a new prison in our community would not happen,” Serrano said. “We opposed this plan from the start for many reasons—and our voices were heard. We said no to converting a place with so much potential to a use that kills potential. We said no to agencies and officials overriding community concerns. We said no to another unwanted use for our waterfront. We said no to the symbolic slap in the face of a new prison in our rebounding community. “We won because we stood together, and said to local officials that we could do better—and I applaud City officials for being open and responsive to our concerns. Unimaginative thinking has dominated the policies towards land use in the Bronx in the past, and it looks as though we have finally turned the page. I hope from now on we will not have to fight against plans made without community involvement. We will be saying ‘yes’ to inclusive planning. This is the Bronx that we are aiming for, and the one that we are building together.” “I personally favor some open space for our community on this stretch of spectacular waterfront and a continuation of the long-planned South Bronx greenway, but I look forward to working together with the people of the Bronx to decide what we want in our backyard.”
03.03.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano celebrated another step toward preserving the building at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue which is considered the birthplace of hip-hop. The building, which is in the Mitchell-Lama Program, was being considered for sale to a private investor, but the city rejected a proposed bid for the building, noting that the purchase price was unsustainable with the affordability controls currently in place. “This is a huge step toward preserving this building as a birthplace of hip-hop and as affordable housing for its tenants,” Serrano said. “When we first raised this issue more than a year ago, it seemed a difficult goal to prevent the sale—but I must congratulate the tenants for their tenacity and organization. They have showed enormous will and collective action in this effort to protect their homes. While the fight is not over to preserve this property for the community, the rejection of this bid is a huge turn of events. “We will continue to work to preserve this historic property as a Bronx and national cultural landmark, as we also fight to prevent the loss of affordable housing like this across the Bronx. While increases in property values are a good thing on the whole, we cannot allow our longterm residents to be forced from their homes by investors and speculators whose only consideration is maximizing their profit margin, even if it means low income and working families losing their homes. 1520 Sedgwick is a test-case of our ability to stop the creeping trend which is converting affordable housing into buildings with sky-high prices that local families cannot afford. I believe we’ll win on 1520 Sedgwick and ultimately across the Borough.” ###
02.28.2008	Today, during a hearing on consumer protection in financial services, Congressman José E. Serrano issued a call for more aggressive action to be taken to prevent foreclosures and end predatory lending schemes. Serrano chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government—which oversees the budgets of the Treasury Department, the Federal Trade Commission and other agencies that have a hand in protecting consumers from financial fraud. “We must take swift and decisive action to stem the wave of foreclosures related to the subprime lending issue,” Serrano said. “Today’s hearing convinced me further of that as our witnesses outlined the scope and impact of this financial tsunami. “My district is being hit hard by the subprime crisis, as well as the effects of other predatory financial schemes aimed at consumers. High interest ‘refund anticipation loans’ and other shady lending practices are rampant. It must end. “I intend to do everything possible within the scope of my Financial Services Appropriations bill to make sure that these practices are reduced and that consumers are better protected. I will take this action not just to benefit my constituents and those like them across the country, but also because these financial schemes, especially questionable subprime mortgages, can threaten our whole economy. We now know that what’s good for Bronx consumers is good for America’s consumers.” The level of the foreclosure crisis in the Bronx alone was outlined by Michael D. Calhoun, President, Center for Responsible Lending, when he said “in the 16th District of New York, the risk [of significant damage from foreclosures] is even more severe given that subprime lending rose to 42% of all mortgages made in ’05 and ’06. The result will be a high level of home losses, with more than one in five subprime loans in the district ultimately ending in foreclosure.” Calhoun’s statistics were backed up by the on-the-ground experience of Gregory Lobo Jost, Deputy Director of University Neighborhood Housing Program in the Bronx. Lobo Jost said in his testimony that “The Bronx is entirely too familiar with redlining, as this practice led to the borough’s notorious incendiary reputation. While the Community Reinvestment Act has helped immensely to turn around the fortunes of places like the Bronx, the residual effects of redlining have led to abusive lending practices, often referred to as ‘reverse-redlining.’ Traditional banks continue to have a relatively small branch presence in our neighborhoods, opening up the door to fringe financial institutions such as payday lenders and check cashers who often double as mortgage brokers pushing subprime products.” The problem is not limited to the Bronx, however, and it strikes across many demographic groups. Janet Murguía, President and CEO of the National Council of La Raza, mentioned in her statement that Latinos are particularly vulnerable. “Research shows that Latinos are 30 percent more likely than whites to receive a high-cost loan when purchasing their home.” She added that the problem is not limited to mortgage lending, saying that “overwhelming evidence shows that minority borrowers pay more to access credit than similarly situated white borrowers.” Congressman Serrano concluded that “the time to act on subprime mortgages is now. We must take action to prevent people who are achieving the American dream of owning a home from being pushed out. This hearing brought up the larger issue of predatory lending—which happens far too much across the nation. Congress and the Executive Branch agencies must take steps to end these harmful practices. I pledge to do all I can do in my Appropriations bill to address this crisis.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the Treasury Department and the FTC, among other agencies.
02.27.2008	The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Consumer Protection in Financial Services: Subprime Lending and Other Financial Activities, Thursday, February 28, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building . Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witnesses: Panel 1 Donna Gambrell, Director of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury Lydia Parnes, Director of the Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission Panel 2 Michael D. Calhoun, President, Center for Responsible Lending Janet Murguía, President and CEO, National Council of La Raza Chris Stinebert, President and CEO, American Financial Services Association Greg Lobo Jost, Deputy Director, University Neighborhood Housing Program/Member of the Board of the Directors of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project###
02.27.2008	The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Consumer Protection in Financial Services: Subprime Lending and Other Financial Activities, Thursday, February 28, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building . Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witnesses: Panel 1 Donna Gambrell, Director of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury Lydia Parnes, Director of the Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission Panel 2 Michael D. Calhoun, President, Center for Responsible Lending Janet Murguía, President and CEO, National Council of La Raza Chris Stinebert, President and CEO, American Financial Services Association Greg Lobo Jost, Deputy Director, University Neighborhood Housing Program/Member of the Board of the Directors of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project ###
02.26.2008	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Election Administration Issues, Wednesday, February 27, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. in 2359 Rayburn House Office Building . Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witnesses: Panel 1: Rosemary Rodriguez, Chair, Election Assistance CommissionCaroline Hunter, Vice-Chair, Election Assistance Commission Gracia Hillman, Commissioner, Election Assistance Commission Donetta L. Davidson, Commissioner, Election Assistance Commission Panel 2: Wendy Weiser, Deputy Director of the Democracy Program, Brennan Center Susan K. Urahn, Managing Director, State Policy Initiatives, Pew Charitable Trusts Arturo Vargas, Executive Director, National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund Jeff Matthews, Director, Stark County, Ohio, Board of Elections ###
02.26.2008	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Election Administration Issues, Wednesday, February 27, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. in 2359 Rayburn House Office Building . Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witnesses: Panel 1: Rosemary Rodriguez, Chair, Election Assistance CommissionCaroline Hunter, Vice-Chair, Election Assistance Commission Gracia Hillman, Commissioner, Election Assistance Commission Donetta L. Davidson, Commissioner, Election Assistance Commission Panel 2: Wendy Weiser, Deputy Director of the Democracy Program, Brennan Center Susan K. Urahn, Managing Director, State Policy Initiatives, Pew Charitable Trusts Arturo Vargas, Executive Director, National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund Jeff Matthews, Director, Stark County, Ohio, Board of Elections ###
02.19.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano reacted to Cuban leader Fidel Castro’s announcement that he had retired from public duties, saying the move “proves Castro’s critics wrong yet again.” “Today’s news that Fidel Castro has retired from leading his nation proves yet again that this important figure defies the attempts of his critics to paint him simply as a power-hungry authoritarian,” Serrano said. “Instead, it proves that Castro sees clearly the long-term interests of the Cuban people and recognizes that they are best served by a carefully planned transition. Few leaders, having been on the front lines of history so long, would be able to voluntarily step aside in favor of a new, younger generation. In taking this action, Castro is ensuring that the changes he brought about will live on and grow.” “I would like to congratulate both Fidel Castro and the Cuban people for this smooth transition of power. It is much to their credit that the much-predicted turmoil following Castro’s exit from direct control of the state did not happen. It proves that there is a broad base of support for the Cuban system on the island. It also proves that despite constant criticisms, Castro’s revolution was not merely a series of military events in Cuba in the late 1950s and early 1960s, but instead a process that continues to evolve in Cuba today. “As always, I want to take the opportunity to call on the Bush Administration to change its backwards and counterproductive policy of blockading and isolating the Cuban people. In a moment like this, it is wise to remember that the stated goal of the Bush Administration and anti-Castro hardliners has been to push Fidel Castro from power. At times it seemed as though it was a personal grudge against Castro, remade into foreign policy. But now that he has voluntarily stepped aside and relinquished power, I wonder what twisted new rationale they will create to continue their failed policies. It is long past time to end the charade and begin dialogue and engagement with Cuba. “Our two peoples are so much alike, with so many shared linkages, it is particularly sad to see us continue to dwell on false and invented divisions. I deeply hope that the new leadership in Cuba can find a new opportunity for dialogue when a new administration comes to power in the United States in January 2009. It is time to recognize that Castro was a great leader for his people—and move toward engagement with his successor. It is time to put the past struggles behind us and move forward together.”
02.15.2008	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, State Senator José M. Serrano, Iran “The Blade” Barkley, Dean Meminger, and Dr. Samuel J. Daniel WHEN: Monday, February 18th, 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Office of Congressman Serrano, 788 Southern Boulevard at corner of Longwood Avenue WHAT: Congressman Serrano and State Senator Serrano will celebrate Black History Month in a ceremony in which they will honor local legends from the African-American community. Honorees will include Iran “The Blade” Barkley, a five-time World Champion boxer; Dean Meminger, a reporter and ten year veteran of NY1 News; and Dr. Samuel J. Daniel, President and CEO of North General Hospital, the only not-for-profit, private teaching hospital located in central Harlem. ###
02.15.2008	Earlier this week, Congressman José E. Serrano elaborated his serious concerns about increasingly harsh and destructive immigration raids in a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. The full text of the letter follows: *** February 11, 2008 Secretary Michael ChertoffU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityU.S. Naval Security Station3801 Nebraska Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20393 Dear Mr. Secretary: I represent the 16th Congressional District, a part of New York with a long history as a gateway for new Americans. It is a place where currently one out of every three residents was born outside of the country. I write to express my deep concern regarding the escalation of home and workplace immigration raids and what I believe is their profound impact on children and families in and around my district. In nearby neighborhoods and counties, immigration raids are devastating communities and local economies, and sowing fear among neighbors; citizen and non-citizen alike. My office has received numerous reports of abusive behavior and perceived racial profiling on the part of some ICE field officers--behavior which compounds the atmosphere of crisis that has gripped immigrant communities. As you know, these raids have also been a source of concern for local law enforcement officials, because it is clear they increase the distrust of any law enforcement officers within immigrant communities, thereby rendering community policing efforts ever more difficult. It has come to my attention that there are serious flaws in the tactics employed by ICE to detain and deport, a practice which has invariably swept numbers of law-abiding citizens and non-citizens into its net. I am concerned that ICE officers are routinely using excessive force and intimidation tactics in their raids, even when the targets have no violent criminal background. Transparent, humane policies that define officer conduct during raids need to be established and an impartial system of oversight implemented. These policies and oversight mechanisms should be developed in conjunction with independent legal experts. I understand that ICE guidelines for screening detainees regarding dependents under their care have been codified. However, it seems that wide latitude is given to agents with regard to their conduct towards these dependents during the course of a raid. Many children and their caretakers, for instance, have reported that they have been threatened by gun-wielding immigration agents, despite having little connection to the raid's intended targets. Furthermore, the collateral damage of these raids is inflicted upon many beyond their initial targets. Children of hard-working citizens, residents, and undocumented people have often been traumatized by the interrogation tactics of agents in the field. I believe that this approach to immigration enforcement will not only complicate ICE's enforcement efforts going forward, but also drive the undocumented further underground, seriously eroding any hope of future cooperation with immigrant communities such as those in my District. Mr. Secretary, you have the ability to improve the relationship between the federal government and communities of new Americans by reforming ICE's approach to immigration enforcement and codifying officer conduct during raids. I believe the federal government should strive to protect mixed-status families which often include American children and spouses. We can do this by spending our limited resources on steps to reduce the backlog in applications for citizenship and permanent residency instead of on raids that cause these families to live in fear. Sincerely, José E. SerranoMember of Congress ###
02.15.2008	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, State Senator José M. Serrano, Iran “The Blade” Barkley, Dean Meminger, and Dr. Samuel J. Daniel WHEN: Monday, February 18th, 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Office of Congressman Serrano, 788 Southern Boulevard at corner of Longwood Avenue WHAT: Congressman Serrano and State Senator Serrano will celebrate Black History Month in a ceremony in which they will honor local legends from the African-American community. Honorees will include Iran “The Blade” Barkley, a five-time World Champion boxer; Dean Meminger, a reporter and ten year veteran of NY1 News; and Dr. Samuel J. Daniel, President and CEO of North General Hospital, the only not-for-profit, private teaching hospital located in central Harlem. ###
02.14.2008	Yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano was honored by 11 national and local organizations for his work to lift the ban on needle exchange programs in the District of Columbia. The ban on the use of local and federal funds for this purpose had been written into DC’s federal appropriations since 1998, during which time countless new HIV infections took place through use of dirty needles. Serrano oversees the budget for D.C. in his role as Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government. “When I realized that I would ‘oversee’ D.C.’s budget, I immediately decided to take out as many restrictions on their home rule as I could. The ban on needle exchange programs was the most egregious of these restrictions—because it truly was killing people,” Congressman Serrano said. “In the end I was able to free the hands of D.C. to implement these programs, which was a great victory for public health. I could not have done this without the groundwork laid by many organizations and individuals in the years preceding my chairmanship. They paved the way for this and I applaud them for their hard work. Last night they gave me an award, but in reality, they too deserved to be recognized, because I could not have done it without their efforts.” “Representative Serrano’s award, jointly given by more than 11 national and local Washington D.C. HIV/AIDS, drug policy and GLBT organizations is richly deserved,” said Rebecca Haag, Executive Director, AIDS Action. “He understands that the scientific evidence shows that syringe exchange programs reduce HIV/AIDS, do not increase drug abuse, help to connect people who are living with addiction to alcohol and drug treatment programs and save lives. Representative Serrano took a truly courageous step by bringing this issue to the floor and we look forward to working with him to end the ban on the use of federal funds for syringe exchange at the earliest possible moment.” “Representative Serrano’s extraordinary leadership on syringe exchange is commendable in a time when other policymakers are unwilling to address such sensitive issues,” said Monica S. Ruiz, Ph.D., MPH; Acting Director, Public Policy; amfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research. “His support of syringe exchange indicates that he sees this for what it really is: a public health imperative and an evidence-based strategy for preventing HIV and saving lives. His efforts in leading the fight for the removal of the D.C. funding ban shows that he places the value of human life over the lack of conscience that often governs partisan politics. We look forward to working with him on removing the federal ban on funding for syringe exchange.” Shortly after Serrano’s change became law, D.C. Mayor Adrian Fenty announced $650,000 in funding from the D.C. government for existing and future needle exchange programs in the District. One of the organizations to receive funding, PreventionWorks!, exchanged 200,000 syringes in 2007 . Programs like these are desperately needed in D.C., where 1 out of 20 people is infected with HIV and one-third of new infections are transmitted by intravenous drug use. ###
02.11.2008	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano joined with Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta and FDNY Foundation Chairman Stephen Ruzow to kick off the Foundation’s new Fire Safety Public Awareness Campaign, “Sound the Alarm.” “Our community knows the danger of house fires all too well,” Serrano said. “Taking steps to prevent them is of utmost importance. One of the simplest steps is installing and maintaining a working smoke detector. Sadly, there are some who still do not have working smoke detectors. This new campaign will help to turn that around and in the process, save lives. I was happy to have a helping hand in funding this vital campaign and believe deeply in its fundamental mission. “I applaud the FDNY and the FDNY Foundation for their heroic work day in and day out. I know that across the board, they are among the most respected of our city’s institutions. For that reason, the “Sound the Alarm” campaign will have a great impact.” The $900,000 cutting-edge educational campaign, funded through a Homeland Security grant secured by Serrano, features a series of powerful advertisements and Public Service Announcements that educate the public on having and properly maintaining their smoke detectors. It includes television, radio, print, and internet ads. ###
02.08.2008	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta and FDNY Foundation Chairman Stephen Ruzow WHEN: Monday – February 11, 2008 – 1 P.M. WHERE: The Quarters of Engine 68 / Ladder 49 - 1160 Ogden Avenue, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano, Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta and FDNY Foundation Chairman Stephen Ruzow will kick off the Foundation’s new Fire Safety Public Awareness Campaign, “Sound the Alarm.” The $900,000 cutting-edge educational campaign, funded through a Homeland Security grant secured by Serrano, features a series of powerful advertisements and Public Service Announcements educating the public on having and properly maintaining their smoke detectors. It includes television, radio, print, and internet ads. ###
02.08.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of an economic stimulus package last night which will give a much-needed boost to the economy and help to working families in the Bronx. “Yesterday, we voted to send a bill to the President that will help all Americans receive the assistance they need during these economically challenging times,” said Serrano. “I am pleased the bill will include rebates for working families and also senior citizens and disabled veterans. The best part is that this stimulus package will provide direct help to Bronx families wherever they are on the economic ladder.” The legislation will provide base rebate checks ranging from $300 to $1200 for those who earned at least $3000 in income in the last year. The bill also allows for families with children to receive additional payments of $300 per child, and provides tax breaks for small businesses. The checks sent out by the Treasury Department are expected to reach people starting in mid-May. “This package will help Bronx families, seniors and veterans to weather an economic downturn. I pushed for that in my conversation with Treasury Secretary Paulson,” added Serrano, who chairs the House Appropriations subcommittee which oversees the Treasury Department’s budget. “Hard-working people like those in our community are often the hardest hit by economic slow-downs. During the Bush years, the tax cuts and economic help were aimed at the richest in our society. With a new Democratic majority in the Congress, we have refocused the government’s economic sights on those who need it most: folks who work for a living, not those who live off their investments. This is a new direction and it is much-needed.” ###
02.07.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of an economic stimulus package this evening that included Puerto Rico and the territories as recipients. Serrano was the key figure behind their inclusion. “From the start, including Puerto Rico and the territories in any economic stimulus plan was a top priority for me. Right away, I spoke with the Democratic leadership who crafted the package and convinced them that the economies of Puerto Rico and the territories are linked closely to ours and merit the same boost we give our own,” Serrano said. “Tonight we voted to send a bill to the president with a provision ensuring that this vital stimulus reaches the people of Puerto Rico and the territories. The Senate added a new provision to give senior citizens and disabled veterans tax rebate checks, which I also strongly supported.” “Our economy is in need of a shot in the arm—but we cannot forget about all the various people living under our flag and sharing in our economic ups and downs. Tonight, we did the right thing, and included all parts of our great nation.” ###
02.06.2008	Chairman José E. Serrano recently received written assurances from the Federal Communications Commission that it will closely examine the issue of satellite radio coverage for Puerto Rico in the proposed merger between XM and Sirius. Serrano is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the FCC, among other agencies. In response, he issued the following statement: “Any company which uses U.S. bandwidth to provide a service must prove to the FCC that it has made a reasonable effort to cover all American citizens,” Serrano said. “When I learned that these companies do not provide full service to Puerto Rico, and were planning to merge, I wrote to the FCC asking that they pay particular attention to this issue. I am pleased that the FCC will indeed be taking a close look at this issue. “As this process moves forward, I will continue to monitor the situation to ensure that the public interest is being adequately considered, not only in terms of the impact of the merger on the continental United States where both companies already provide service, but also in Puerto Rico and the other areas of the country that are not being fully served by XM and Sirius. In my opinion, this is not merely a question of profits and who can most easily be served, but a question of fairness and who should be served. It should be emphasized that these companies are using a great public asset and, therefore, they should be required to provide service to everyone. “Too often Puerto Rico is left out of business plans or given a second-class version of what other U.S. citizens are able to get. Puerto Ricans have given so much to this nation, they deserve the respect and honor we give to any other community in the U.S. Issues like satellite radio may seem small to some, but we are fighting against a pattern—and must fight each individual battle as it arises. I will remain vigilant, and push back against attempts to leave Puerto Rico out.” ###
02.06.2008	Today Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-16) and Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez (NY-12) called on Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL) to apologize to the Puerto Rican people after the Florida Republican put out a statement saying that as “foreigners,” Puerto Ricans did not deserve tax rebates offered through the economic stimulus package. “I have confronted this lack of knowledge about Puerto Ricans for years; Representative Brown-Waite’s statement is just a new form of the same old careless ignorance,” Congressman Serrano said. “That said, I believe that Rep. Brown-Waite, once she was made aware of her mistake, should have retracted the statement, and apologized. Puerto Ricans are among the most patriotic of America’s citizens, and to label them ‘foreigners’ disparages their vast contributions to our nation. Additionally, I make no apologies for my efforts to include Puerto Ricans in the stimulus package. I worked hard on this, not just because their economy is linked closely with ours, but also because there’s no reason in my mind why any American should be treated as a second-class citizen. To leave the Puerto Ricans out would have been unfair and economically unwise.” “Congresswoman Brown-Waite’s remarks about U.S. citizens of Puerto Rican descent were a painful reminder that America is still struggling to realize the strengths of its own diversity. Today it should be common knowledge that Puerto Ricans are citizens of the United States and contributing members of our national economy and armed forces. It is simply inexcusable for a member of the United States Congress to call the Puerto Rican people ‘foreigners,’ and unimaginable that an apology has not been issued,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “As a woman of Puerto Rican descent, I feel compelled to speak for our community, and to educate the uneducated. It is amazing that a member of Congress who has the responsibility for casting votes on behalf of tens of thousands of Americans could be so uninformed about the Constitution. It makes you wonder how many other times her understanding of complex issues has been wrong.”###
02.04.2008	Chairman José E. Serrano of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government issued the following statement today, after examining the details of the President’s FY 2009 budget request. Chairman Serrano focused on the portion of the budget for which his Subcommittee is responsible. “In this budget request, President Bush and his team have ignored the priorities of the American people and the Democratic majorities in Congress. In the Financial Services appropriations section of the proposal, this budget would eliminate vital programs, and cut back others to an unacceptable level. We made important investments in services to the American people in the FY 2008 appropriations bill, and I plan on continuing to fund these critical programs.” In his initial review of the President’s numbers, Serrano found the following proposed funding cuts to be among the most egregious and objectionable in the Financial Services and General Government jurisdiction: Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund: The FY 2009 request proposes $28.6 million, a cut of $65.4 million, or 70 percent, below FY 2008. This is a particularly important program as it provides sorely-needed grants, loans, and technical assistance on a competitive basis to financial institutions and loan funds serving distressed urban and rural communities. Election Assistance Commission: The budget proposal does not include funding for election assistance grants to states. The FY 2008 bill included $115 million for grants under the Help America Vote Act to improve election administration and $10 million for grants under a pilot program to improve election data collection. IRS Taxpayer Services: Despite the request for large increases in the IRS enforcement budget, taxpayer services are short-changed. Under the President’s budget, the taxpayer services account would be frozen at the FY 2008 level and would not include funding for last year’s initiatives relating to taxpayer outreach and education or tax return preparation at IRS Taxpayer Assistance Centers. Small Business Administration Microloan program: The President’s request proposes the termination of the microloan technical assistance program, which was funded at $15 million in FY 2008. The program provides grants to very small businesses to assist them in small businesses’ fundamental operations. District of Columbia: The Administration includes restrictions on the ability of the leaders of the District of Columbia to use its own funds for such purposes as needle exchange programs and lobbying for voting rights. Congress removed these restrictions last year recognizing that the city’s leadership is best suited to set local policy priorities. “The suggested cuts and policy proposals outlined above are unacceptable to me,” Serrano said. “People depend on these programs for fair elections, taxpayer assistance, safe consumer products, small business support and much more. Cutting them to the bone now will not be beneficial to the nation in the long run.” ###
01.31.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano urged lower-income Americans to take advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and to use the free services that are available to help them file their taxes this year. Below is information from the IRS on the EITC and free preparation sites. “Lower income families should not pass up the opportunity for free tax preparation help or to apply for any tax credits they qualify for,” Serrano said. “We work hard to provide these credits, and it’s very important that the folks who need them are able to take advantage of them. Besides the EITC, there are also other tax credits people may qualify for, but without a professional helping, they could miss them. Because of that, I urge people to use the free preparation help that is made available. Don’t lose out on money that may be owed you and your family.” The following is information from the IRS: The new maximum credit is $4,716 for a family with two or more children; $2,853 for a family with one child and $428 if there are no children. The Earned Income Tax Credit is the federal government’s largest program benefiting working families. The new income limits are $37,783 ($39,783 if married filing jointly) for families with two or more children; $33,241 ($35,241 if married filing jointly) for families with one child or $12,590 ($14,590 if married filing jointly) if there are no children. Investment income must be $2,900 or less. Children must meet certain age, relationship and residency requirements. The EITC is a valuable but complex tax break for lower income workers. Free help is available. Workers who qualify for EITC also may qualify for free tax preparation assistance. Community volunteers can help taxpayers. Taxpayers can find free tax preparation sites in their area by calling 1-800-829-1040 and New York City residents can call 311 for free tax help. Once a location has been found, people should come prepared with the following items: • Proof of identification• Social Security Cards (or Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, ITIN) for you, your spouse and dependents and/or a Social Security Number verification letter issued by the Social Security Administration• Birth dates for you, your spouse and dependents on the tax return• Current year’s tax package if you received one• Wage and earning statement(s) Form W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, from all employers• Interest and dividend statements from banks (Forms 1099)• A copy of last year’s Federal and State returns if available• Bank Routing Numbers and Account Numbers for Direct Deposit• Total paid for day care provider and the day care provider's tax identifying number (the provider's Social Security Number or the provider's business Employer Identification Number)• Information for other income• Information for deductions/credits• To file taxes electronically on a married filing joint tax return, both spouses must be present to sign the required forms. ###
01.28.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement regarding President Bush’s final State of the Union address. “Tonight the American people got more of the same from President Bush – especially on the failed Iraq war,” Serrano said. “As we approach 4,000 fatalities and tens of thousands of wounded, we still have yet to hear a truthful assessment of the present condition on the ground, and a clear-eyed statement on our nation’s future course in Iraq. Instead we are given rosy scenarios, with promises to veto any efforts to end our involvement in this quagmire. The troops should be pulled out, and brought home. “President Bush also spoke about the need to work together on a stimulus package to prevent a major economic slow-down. I am glad that the package that seems to be coming together focuses on helping working class and disadvantaged people. I believe that it is vital that they be at the center of any plan, because they are the people hurt most by slumps in the economy. I also am fighting for the inclusion of Puerto Rico and the territories in any package – their economic fortunes are tied directly to our own and they cannot be left out. “Earlier today we received word that President Bush would seek to ignore all Congressionally-approved special projects in the future. He would have us believe that those projects, which are aimed at the needs of our communities, are the cause of our fiscal problems at the federal level. However, an examination of the record does not bear this out. With these projects budgeted at $11 billion in 2008, and his request for spending on the war in Iraq totaling more than $150 billion for this year, it’s hard to believe that special projects are budget-busters. This president and his party have repeatedly tried to claim the mantle of fiscal-responsibility by hacking away at vitally-needed domestic priorities, while ignoring the huge cost of the Iraq War and their tax cuts for the wealthy. “I should note that I do not apologize for my efforts to bring federal funding to the South Bronx, the poorest Congressional District in the nation. Who knows better about the needs of local communities- the members of Congress who represent them, or the government bureaucrats in Washington? “Having heard much of this same speech for the past seven years, I am looking forward to a new direction and message in the 2009 State of the Union. Congressional Democrats have led the way over the past year, and will continue to do so during remainder of this term. We will continue to fight to end the Iraq War, to provide economic help to struggling families, and get our nation back on track.” ###
01.18.2008	With calls from both political parties for an economic stimulus package increasing, Congressman José E. Serrano urged that the package not focus solely on the middle and upper classes, but also the working poor. Serrano spoke with Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on Wednesday and elaborated some of his concerns on this issue. “Many of the economic stimulus proposals that are being rolled out do not have much for the poor and working poor,” Congressman Serrano said. “We cannot leave these people out as our economy slows—because they will be the hardest hit. The social program cuts of the Bush years have left them very vulnerable to downturns in the economy. They are increasingly left without any sort of a safety net. Any stimulus package must seek to address this issue. “Additionally, I remind my colleagues that any plan must expressly include the territories. It is often forgotten that economic problems in Puerto Rico and the territories also have an impact on the U.S. economy and we have an obligation to include them as part of any package. “When I hear the Republicans talking about the need to make permanent tax cuts that are already in place, I do find myself wondering how that is going to help an ailing economy in the near term. We need a stimulus that is targeted, timely, and temporary so that we can begin to get the fiscal house in order. “I also notice that in talk of the looming economic slowdown, the sky-high price of the war in Iraq is rarely mentioned. We were told repeatedly by the President that there was no money for even modest increases in social program spending in last year’s budget process—yet at the same time he had the audacity to ask us for hundreds of billions of dollars to continue the misguided war in Iraq. This double-speak must end. “Yesterday, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke indicated in testimony that giving money to low and moderate income Americans is more likely to result in new economic activity than money going to those individuals with high incomes. As an economic stimulus package moves forward, we must keep that advice in mind. Our nation cannot afford another skewed tax cut that leaves the majority of Americans with very little except a larger federal budget deficit that the Republicans then use to call for social spending cuts. This package must focus on getting our economy started again in a manner that is fair and principled.” ###
01.18.2008	Congressman José E. Serrano today released the following statement in commemoration of Monday's Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday. “When we celebrate the life and works of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., we must remember that his teachings merit study in the present day. "He showed us that the way to peace and justice is not through violence or anger but rather through love, respect and peaceful action. In a world wracked by violence, war and hatred we need more than ever to follow his lead because, he stood not only against racism and segregation but also against injustice and war. “Our nation is undoubtedly in a better place on civil rights and equality than it was in his day, but there is work to be done yet. We must continue to fight against any and all injustice we see, no matter who is targeted. I firmly believe that without his work folks like me might not be holding public office today. "I also believe that Dr. King would have been a strong advocate for the rights of the undocumented—who currently are bearing the heavy cross of unjust treatment. We must uphold Dr. King's legacy by speaking out against this new form of discrimination against a group of our fellow people. "We must also ensure that there is no backsliding in the area of voting rights. The battle to ensure everyone had the right to vote was so fierce that we do it a disservice when we stand idly by as efforts are made to erect barriers to voting. "Dr. King's legacy is the awareness that we can make positive change in our world-and that indeed we must. On this holiday, I urge people to take a moment to reflect on this legacy and the man who inspired such positive change in our nation." ###
01.11.2008	On the sixth anniversary of the internment of the first ‘enemy combatant’ at Guantanamo Bay, Congressman José E. Serrano today once again called for its closure. “Holding people indefinitely without normal legal rights and protections at Guantanamo stains the honor of our proud nation,” Serrano said. “It is long past time to close the complex and transfer the prisoners there into the regular legal system, where they can be charged, tried, and perhaps convicted. To do otherwise is shameful, and a dishonor to our nation’s deeply held beliefs about liberty and the role of government.” “At the heart of the American system of government is a belief that the power of the government must be checked. Our government cannot be allowed to hold people uncharged. The Bush Administration has come up with every possible excuse to ignore this dictum, which was handed down to us from our forefathers. This must end. Regardless of the legal theories they propose, it is unjust for our government to hold anyone indefinitely without charges. Our nation must restore habeas corpus and regain the moral high ground that it has traditionally occupied. “We have nothing to fear from letting our legal and penal system deal with these prisoners. Our courts are among the best in the world at balancing the need for discretion on national security grounds against the need for openness. It is most likely that many will be found innocent of any crime, but we can be sure that those found guilty will be given appropriate sentences. We must trust in our legal system and show the world that we are a nation of laws. “We must continue to be aggressive in the fight against terrorism, but we cannot sacrifice our values. Closing Guantanamo would be a vital first step toward a return to our nation’s best traditions.”
12.17.2007	Chairman José E. Serrano of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government highlighted the portion of the omnibus appropriations bill filed Sunday which included his Financial Services and General Government bill. His portion of the omnibus bill was based on the pro-consumer bill he guided through the House in June. His focus in the bill was to increase the government’s protection of consumers and to bring the priorities of multiple agencies closer in line with the needs of the citizens, especially the most disadvantaged. His subcommittee oversees many of the agencies that protect consumers, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which received a 27 percent boost in funding in this legislation. “From the moment I saw the portfolio of my subcommittee, I knew we would be working to help consumers,” Serrano said. “My portion of the bill allows the Treasury Department to continue current services as well as to add several important new initiatives. In addition, appropriate levels of funding are provided for the District of Columbia, the Federal Judiciary, the FCC, the FTC, the SEC and multiple other agencies. “It was a tough budget year, as evidenced by the recent struggles with the Bush Administration, which sought to cut funding for these agencies to the bone. We pushed back against that, because we feel that these agencies have a very important role to play in ensuring Americans’ lives are safe, fair and financially secure. I would have liked to have been able to go further, but the Bush Administration’s intransigence on these issues prevented that. With that qualification, I’m proud of the work we did, and applaud the House for passing this bill.” After noticing that the U.S. Mint’s state-specific quarter program ended without including Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the District of Columbia, Serrano included language in his portion of the bill to enable the U.S. Mint to issue these coins in 2009. Serrano felt this was “an issue of fairness” and that these American territories and D.C. “should not be left out of this popular program” Serrano’s FY 2008 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill will make the following investments: Consumer Product Safety Commission: $80 million, $17.2 million above FY2007 and $16.7 million above the President’s request, to protect the public from unreasonable risks of serious injury or death from more than 15,000 types of consumer products under the agency's jurisdiction. Federal Trade Commission: $243.8 million, $32.5 million above FY2007 and $3.6 million above the President’s request to improve consumer protection activities, including investigations of sub-prime lending and identity theft, and to keep the marketplace free from anti-competitive business practices. Election Assistance Commission: $125 million, not funded in FY2007 or the President’s request, for grants to help states comply with the Help America Vote Act, including upgrading voting machines and voter registration databases so that they are ready for the 2008 Presidential election. Community Development Financial Institutions Fund: $94 million, $39.4 million above FY2007 and $65.4 million above the President’s request, to support economic development and financial services in disadvantaged communities through housing loans, micro-business loans, community development banks and credit unions, and other efforts aimed at economic development and the expansion of low-cost financial services. Internal Revenue Service: $10.89 billion, $295 million above FY2007 but $203 million below the President’s request, including: • Taxpayer Advocate Service: $177 million, $6.7 million above the President’s request, to help individuals solve ongoing tax problems with the IRS and to use insights from these cases to provide suggestions to the IRS on how to prevent problems in the future. • Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program: The bill establishes a new grant pilot program with $8 million in funding, which will extend services to underserved populations and hardest-to-reach areas. • A provision ensuring $3 million for Tax Counseling for the Elderly and $9 million for low-income taxpayer clinic grants. Federal Employee Cost-of-Living Adjustment: A cost-of-living adjustment of 3.5 percent is included to continue the tradition of pay-parity between civilian and military employees. District of Columbia Rights: Puts control of local government funds in the hands of the local government by lifting restrictions on the District including allowing the DC government to use local funds for needle exchange programs.
12.17.2007	Chairman José E. Serrano successfully included a provision in the omnibus appropriations bill for FY08 that blocks the Postal Service from moving forward on a plan to consolidate the Bronx Postal distribution center operations into the Manhattan-based Morgan Postal Distribution Facility until Congress and the Government Accountability Office are satisfied that the consolidation is merited. “I felt strongly that the consolidation and shuttering of the Bronx postal distribution facilities was the wrong idea,” Serrano said. “From my post on the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the Postal Service’s budget, I was able to block the Postal Service from moving forward on this misguided plan. I felt that the plan’s savings were minimal and the cost to postal workers in my district was too high. I feel strongly that we should put people ahead of profits.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the U.S. Postal Service among other agencies.
12.17.2007	Chairman José E. Serrano announced today that he had been able to include multiple provisions in the FY2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill that will directly benefit Puerto Rico. Specifically, he included a provision ensuring Puerto Rico would get fair treatment in the federal funding distribution for elections and voting machinery, a provision instructing the U.S. Mint to produce a quarter with a Puerto Rico-specific design in 2009, and language urging the National Science Foundation to re-evaluate its future budgeting plan that would severely cut funding to the Arecibo Observatory. “Taking care of Puerto Rico’s needs has been a top priority for me since I got to Congress,” Serrano said. “I believe that Puerto Rico, regardless of its status, should be treated fairly and with respect. The priorities that I was able to mandate in the omnibus appropriations bill reflect that philosophy. “For instance, more than ten years ago, when I first heard about the state quarters program, I urged that Puerto Rico be included in the program. They did not include Puerto Rico, leaving out millions of our fellow American citizens. I decided I would have to correct the oversight. This year, as chairman of the subcommittee that oversees the Treasury Department’s funding, I was finally able to include language in this year’s omnibus government spending bill to direct the Mint to issue Puerto Rico quarters in 2009. “I also made sure that Puerto Rico would receive the same treatment as any other jurisdiction when it came to election and voting technology funding. Previously, Puerto Rico was limited to funding that was far lower per capita than other jurisdictions. With voter turnouts nearly double that of other places, there is no reason to shortchange the island in this regard. The bottom line is that this will provide an increase in funding for Puerto Rico on this vital issue. “I also fought to reverse the decision of the National Science Foundation to cut funding for the Arecibo Observatory to the bone, an act which will set it on a path towards closure. The legislative language that I put in the bill puts the Congress on record opposing that idea. We will continue to work to preserve this critical national scientific resource. “Puerto Rico is a place with more than four million American citizens who deserve our respect. Too often it is ‘out of sight, out of mind’ for Puerto Rico. That’s not right. Instead we should be honoring Puerto Rico for its many contributions to the United States. Our nation would not be what it is today without Puerto Ricans giving so much in areas like the arts, national defense, music, politics, science, and sports.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the U.S. Mint among other agencies.
12.17.2007	Chairman José E. Serrano announced today that he included a provision in the omnibus government appropriations bill to direct the U.S. Mint to issue quarters for Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the District of Columbia in 2009. “When I realized that the ‘state quarters’ program had left out millions of people in the territories and DC, I decided I would have to correct that oversight,” Serrano said. “Fortunately, I was able to include language in my portion of the omnibus government spending bill to direct the Mint to issue these coins. “While these are not states, their people live under our flag, and deserve our respect. Too often it is ‘out of sight, out of mind’ for these territories and D.C. Instead we should be honoring them for their contributions to the United States. Our nation would not be what it is today without their contributions to the national defense, the arts, music, politics, science, and sports. “This program will raise awareness of the various status issues, which I believe is a good thing for our country. We should know about all of the people living under our flag. Many people don’t know much about these places, and helping to prompt some learning will be a positive thing. “Our nation was founded with a national creed based on equality. By treating the territories and D.C. as fairly as possible, we are working to apply our national principle of equality for all. Issuing quarters honoring these diverse places is a small step towards the respect they deserve, but we must take advantage of any opportunity to take such measures. I look forward to seeing the designs they choose to represent them on their quarters.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the U.S. Mint among other agencies.
12.03.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated Venezuela on holding a free and fair national referendum on a slate of constitutional amendments. President Hugo Chávez, who was a proponent of the amendments, conceded defeat on the questions, and asked to begin a dialogue with the opposition. “President Chávez and the Venezuelan people yet again showed that they indeed have a democratic system in place and that the system is operational,” Congressman Serrano said. “I hope that Chávez’ critics, who often deploy misleading terms like “anti-democratic,” will take note of this development and confine their criticisms to policies. The will of the Venezuelan people has been heard and respected. “It is important to note that a full 49 percent of the people voted in favor of moving towards Chávez’ program of 21st Century Socialism. While in this referendum they constituted a minority, their wishes cannot be ignored. Chávez has sought to represent the people’s wishes in his programs. This explains his popularity—not hocus-pocus theories about dictatorships. “The Bush Administration and much of the U.S. and international press must come to grips with the idea that Venezuela is a fully functioning democracy and Chávez is a product of that democracy. There is no other way to view this situation that reflects the democratic realities on the ground. “Our two nations have a long history of working together in friendship and mutual respect. It is time to restart that tradition.”
11.20.2007	The Bronx, NY – November 20, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and The Trust for Public Land signed over the deed for South Brother Island to the New York City Parks Department, preserving the untouched island-- one of New York’s last wild places-- for generations to come. They were joined by the Bronx Zoo-based Wildlife Conservation Society and The Point Community Development Corporation; key partners in the island’s purchase. South Brother Island is an uninhabited island in the East River which has been in private hands since the earliest days of European settlement in the New World. Previous owners never developed the property for commercial uses and it has consequently emerged as a haven for shore birds and other wildlife. The seven-acre island is a key nesting colony for several types of these birds, including the Great Egret, Double-crested Cormorant, Snowy Egret, and Black-crowned Night Heron. Laying half a mile off the shoreline of the Bronx, South Brother Island is often overshadowed by its larger twin, North Brother Island, which was once home to Riverside Hospital, a quarantine facility for TB and typhoid cases from the 1880’s to the early years of the Second World War. But South Brother Island’s history is no less compelling. It was owned for many years by Colonel Jacob Ruppert, a beer baron and President of the New York Yankees who in 1920 famously lured Babe Ruth away from the Boston Red Sox for the then unheard of sum of $125,000. As legend has it, Ruth spent days off on Ruppert’s island, swatting balls into the East River. The Parks Department intends to keep the isolated island protected, in order to study the wildlife and to develop a plan to best preserve and use the island. “Today is a historic day for the Bronx, for New York City, and for conservation,” said Congressman Serrano, who secured multiple federal grants to underwrite the $2 million cost of acquisition. “This urban treasure will now be preserved as a resource for our children and grandchildren. I commend The Point which first brought this island to my attention, the Wildlife Conservation Society which helped manage a portion of the grant funds used to purchase the property, and The Trust for Public Land which negotiated the purchase and transfer of the island. Their dedication to the goal of safeguarding this Bronx jewel is truly outstanding. I look forward in particular to learning more about the environmental riches of the island as more scientific studies are completed. This is a great day for the Bronx and New York’s urban ecology.” “Home to a large nesting colony of herons and egrets, South Brother Island is one of the most important natural areas in the Bronx," said Commissioner Adrian Benepe. "Thanks to Congressman José E. Serrano for securing NOAA funds and The Trust for Public Land for working on behalf of the Wildlife Conservation Society and The Point Community Group to facilitate the purchase and transfer the property to the New York City Parks Department, South Brother Island is joining its “twin,” North Brother Island, in creating a family of wildlife refuges in and around the South Bronx and adding to the City's portfolio of nearly 29,000 acres of public parkland. We look forward to caring for and managing this unique natural preserve.” “We are extremely grateful for Congressman Serrano’s leadership in securing critical federal funding to protect South Brother Island and for his efforts to better the natural environment of the Bronx and broader East River ecosystem,” said The Trust for Public Land regional director Rose Harvey. “Having high quality wildlife habitat in the South Bronx is not only important for the community, but also for the native wildlife found there. The protection of this natural habitat so close to the urban landscape of the South Bronx is truly remarkable.” From his seat on the appropriations committee, Congressman Serrano helped to fund the Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program (CELCP), which is administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and has thus far funded $198 million for 131 coastal conservation projects in 26 of the nation’s 35 coastal states. South Brother Island was purchased with CELCP funds secured by Congressman Serrano for the Wildlife Conservation Society and The Point Community Development Corporation in fiscal year 2002. “NOAA has been pleased to support the implementation of the Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program since its creation by Congress in 2002," said David Kennedy, Director of the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management. To date, funding support from the Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program (CELCP) has helped to preserve more than 32,000 coastal acres. In addition, $15 million was included for the CELCP in the fiscal year 2008 budget request for NOAA. "The CELCP's objective--to help permanently conserve lands in coastal and estuarine areas with significant ecological, conservation, historic, aesthetic, or recreation values--will clearly be met by the protection of South Brother Island. Through the efforts of all the project partners, the property will be preserved for the benefit of New York’s coastal zone and enjoyed by present and future generations.” “Participants in our on-water program first set foot on South Brother Island in the summer of 1997,” said Maria Torres, President of The Point Community Development Corporation. “We knew then that South Brother was an unmatched natural resource and when we brought this project to Congressman Serrano’s attention, he understood immediately the significance of preserving one of the very last wild places in New York. That it happens to be in the South Bronx, in the middle of busy shipping lanes, makes it even more miraculous. We are grateful for his vision and his support of this and many other projects along the South Bronx waterfront over his many years in public life.” “The Wildlife Conservation Society is delighted to be part of this historic transfer of South Brother Island, one of New York City’s last wild places,” said John Calvelli, Senior Vice President for Public Affairs of the Wildlife Conservation Society. “Through our work in the nearby Bronx River – as well as at our 600 field conservation projects around the world – we have seen first hand the value of parkland and protected areas for wildlife, whether it’s lions on the Serengeti, bison in Yellowstone National Park, and now – today – harbor herons and other colonial nesting birds on South Brother, right here in New York City.” “South Brother Island is currently the largest wading bird colony in the New York Harbor, and has been a top priority for acquisition for nearly 20 years,” said Glenn Phillips, Executive Director of the New York City Audubon Society. “The island provides a safe place in the middle of one of the world’s busiest harbors for over 1,000 heron, egret, cormorant and gull families to raise their young. NYC Audubon is grateful to Congressman Serrano and The Trust for Public Land for their efforts to protect this precious and extraordinary natural place.” “South Brother Island is a great example of the breadth of Bronx history,” said Anthony Greene, Education Director of the Bronx County Historical Society. “First named Gesellen or Brethren Island by the Dutch in the 1640s, the island has seen a variety of owners and once served as the summer retreat of New York Yankees owner and beer magnate, Colonel Jacob Ruppert. Reopening the island to the public marks a great moment in Bronx history and gives us access to yet another piece of our collective past.” The Point Community Development Corporation, which initiated the South Bronx Greenway project in 1998, is working with the Wildlife Conservation Society, the office of Congressman Serrano, and other local groups to launch a conservancy aimed at protecting, enhancing, and maintaining the nearby greenway, as well as the shoreline, islands, and open spaces along its route. The planned Barretto Bay Conservancy will play a central role in helping the Department of Parks and Recreation plan the future of both North and South Brother islands, and in ensuring their protection. ###
11.19.2007	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Commissioner Adrian Benepe, NYC Parks; Tim Keeney, NOAA Deputy Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere; Rose Harvey, Trust for Public Land Regional Director; John Calvelli, Senior Vice President, Wildlife Conservation Society; Maria Torres, President, The Point Community Development Corporation. WHEN: Tuesday – November 20, 2007 Ceremony starts: 11:30 a.m. Boat rides to South Brother Island for photos, brief media tour with naturalist and local historian to follow WHERE: Barretto Point Park, Intersection of Tiffany Street and Viele Avenue, Hunt’s Point, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano and The Trust for Public Land will turn over the deed for South Brother Island to New York City Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe. South Brother Island is located in the East River off the Bronx shoreline. The seven-acre island, which has been held in private hands for many years, will be preserved as a natural space, affording protection to the many species of shorebirds. On hand for the ceremony will also be The Point Community Development Corporation and the Wildlife Conservation Society, which helped initiate the purchase, as well as the New York City Audubon Society, the Bronx Historical Society and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Congressman Serrano secured funding for the acquisition of the island, which was the last privately-held island in New York Harbor and one of the very last wild places in the City of New York. ###
11.08.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano voted against the proposed free trade agreement with Peru, citing environmental and labor concerns. The measure passed the House by a vote of 285-132. “Past free trade agreements have been harmful to the United States and its trading partners,” Congressman Serrano said. “While I appreciated the increased focus on environmental and labor protections in this agreement, I am convinced that they do not go far enough to constitute a fair trade agreement. “I think that much of the unequal competition engendered by the trade agreements of the 1990s forced many low-income people in Mexico and Central America to lose the ability to support themselves through agriculture, which in turn forced them to leave their home nations and make the journey north. Our policies and agreements should not directly or indirectly push people off their land and force them to emigrate simply to feed their families. “When we negotiate these deals with less-industrialized nations, we must seek to protect the labor rights of workers in both nations. Our nation should not be in the business of helping to push workers out of their jobs or pushing them toward exploitation. Government’s role is to protect the poor and vulnerable, and to help those seeking a better life. I have not been convinced that this agreement would protect workers rights. “There is a great temptation as nations develop to exploit their natural resources to the point where they degrade the environment beyond repair. While any nation has a right to do what it chooses, our government should not be in the business of creating incentives to destroy the environment. I do not think that this agreement provides sufficient environmental protections. “I want to support international policies that help to lift people around the world out of poverty, I truly do. I hope to someday see a trade agreement that helps people at home and abroad without causing more problems than it solves.”
11.02.2007	Following the revelations that Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) Chair Nancy Nord accepted reimbursement for travel from entities connected to industries the Commission regulates, Chairman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to Ms. Nord. The text of the letter follows. *** November 2, 2007 The Honorable Nancy Nord Acting Chairman Consumer Product Safety Commission 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Dear Chairman Nord: I am seriously concerned about reports that you and the previous Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) accepted reimbursement for travel from entities connected to industries the Commission regulates. I strongly believe that accepting such industry-funded travel represents a conflict of interest and should be prohibited. I request that the CPSC provide to the House Committee on Appropriations, within ten days of the date of this letter, the following: A listing of all official travel by CPSC commissioners and senior staff, from 2003 to the present, for which expenses were reimbursed or paid directly by any non-Federal entity, including dates, destinations, amount of the expense, the name of the entity providing reimbursement or direct payment, and purpose of each trip (including a statement of how the travel helped the CPSC fulfill is mission); A statement of whether the entity providing payment had interest in matters before the CPSC either during or subsequent to the travel; A description of any analyses performed by the CPSC addressing the question of conflicts of interest, including reasons as to why approved gift travel did not represent a conflict of interest; An estimate of additional fiscal year 2008 funding above the President’s budget request that would be required to ensure that commissioners and staff could participate in mission-critical travel without payment from non-Federal entities; and The CPSC’s current guidelines and regulations pertaining to employees accepting gifts and travel. The acceptance of gift travel from regulated industries raises serious questions about the ability of the Commission to carry out its mission in a fair an unbiased manner, especially during this critical period of increased concern regarding unsafe toys and other consumer products. I strongly urge your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Chairman Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government ### Congressman José E. Serrano is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the CPSC among other agencies.
10.23.2007	Congressman José E. Serrano met with the President's Task Force on Puerto Rico's Status today. In the meeting he clarified his position on Puerto Rico’s status and explained his legislation to the members of the Task Force. “I was pleased at the tone and content of my meeting with the President’s Task Force,” Serrano said. “It is clear that they are focused on the primary issue that they are tasked with addressing: outlining for the President the Constitutionally viable options for Puerto Rico's future status. They are not expanding beyond that scope—and I believe that to be entirely appropriate.” “One thing is clear: Puerto Rico needs a resolution to its colonial status that is Constitutional. An “enhanced commonwealth” is neither constitutional nor feasible- there is no way Puerto Rico will get better treatment than other states or territories. Congress and the courts will not approve such arrangements. Like it or not, the Task Force’s report will come to this conclusion. “It is long-past time to start the process of final self-determination for Puerto Ricans. After 109 years of a colonial relationship, respect and dignity demand a fair and open process that leads to a result that Puerto Ricans, U.S. Congress and courts can live with. Now is the time to move forward.” ###
10.23.2007	Congressman José E. Serrano’s bill on Puerto Rico’s status, H.R. 900, was marked up by the House Committee on Natural Resources today—and reported out favorably. Serrano was “pleased” with the result and is “looking forward to seeing H.R. 900 on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.” “I congratulate the members of the Committee on Natural Resources for taking this vital first step in resolving Puerto Rico’s status once and for all,” Serrano said. “My bill would have the government ask the people of Puerto Rico a simple question: Do you support the present status or would you like to change the relationship between Puerto Rico and the United States? Only with the answer to this question in hand can we begin meaningful negotiations about the future of the relationship between the U.S. and the island. “There have been many criticisms of my bill from people who oppose change. I worked closely with Mr. Rahall and Mr. Fortuño to craft a compromise bill addressing the concerns of the other side. Unfortunately, their stance seemed to be that there was no concession big enough—short of substituting their bill—that would make my bill worthy of their support. I am saddened by this position, because I genuinely believe that we need dialogue and compromise between the two sides to eventually end this colonial relationship—a relationship that no one supports in its current form. “The Puerto Rican people deserve leaders who will tell them the truth, and lead them into a better future. It is time that we all admit that the colonial relationship with the U.S. and the subjugation that it brings have divided us against one another. “If we are to move toward a better, empowered future for Puerto Ricans, we must stop the infighting, and work together to solve our status problem. Until that is done, we will never move beyond it. Our heritage, our pride, and our history all call us to do what we need to do to move our people to a bright future.” ###
10.12.2007	*** Please note these are three separate events on three separate days *** *** Serrano to Give Keynote Speech at SEIU Local 32BJ Conference WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano WHEN: Saturday– October 13, 2007 at 10:30 a.m. WHERE: 101 Avenue of the Americas, between Grand and Watts. WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will give the keynote address at the SIEU Local 32BJ conference emphasizing his belief in the need for civic engagement. Local 32BJ is more than 85,000 members strong, with members that come from 64 different countries and speak 28 different languages. Many of those members live in Congressman Serrano’s congressional district in the Bronx. *** Serrano Grand Marshal at 43rd Annual Hispanic Day Parade WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, other Hispanic leaders WHEN: Sunday – October 14, 2007 at 11:30 a.m. WHERE: 5th Avenue from 44th Street to 72nd Street WHAT: Congressman Serrano will be the Grand Marshal at the 43rd Annual Hispanic Day Parade in Manhattan. Organizers estimate that parade participants will number more than 10,000 and parade spectators could exceed one million. The Hispanic Day Parade is in celebration of Hispanic unity and the cultural and social diversity of the groups that fit under that one label. ***Serrano to Take Part in Jacob’s Place Ribbon Cutting Ceremony WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; John Reilly, executive director of the Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation; local elected officials WHEN: Monday – October 15, 2007 at 11:00 a.m. WHERE: 2348 Webster Avenue, North of 184th Street WHAT: Congressman Serrano will help in the ribbon cutting for Jacob’s Place, a brand new 8-story 63-unit apartment building which was features a green design and includes six classrooms for early education. According to the non-profit Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation, which built and will run Jacob's Place, the new building is “named in honor of the late Astin Jacobo--a longtime neighborhood leader from the Crotona section of the Bronx. Jacob led the battle in Crotona and the Northwest Bronx for affordable housing, youth recreation and community preservation.”
10.04.2007	Washington, DC – October 4, 2007 – Chairman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to the Federal Communications Commission today, expressing his concern over recent reports of leaks of non-public information to interested parties. Serrano is chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the FCC’s annual budget. The text of the letter follows. “Any leaks of non-public information are of great concern, but when there is seeming favoritism, the gravity of the incident increases greatly,” Serrano said. “The nature of the alleged leaks gives the distinct impression that business and trade entities were being favored while consumer and public interest groups were not. The FCC must investigate these allegations and discipline anyone who has been found to have acted improperly. They must also review guidelines and procedures to ensure that fairness and impartiality are emphasized at every turn.” *** October 4, 2007 Hon. Kevin J. MartinChairmanFederal Communications Commission445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Martin: I am writing to express my concern over yesterday’s Government Accountability Office (GAO) report concerning the handling of nonpublic information by staff of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), apparently in violation of the FCC’s own rules. As you know, the GAO found cases of FCC staff providing certain stakeholders advance information on agendas of upcoming FCC meetings. This advance release of confidential information gave these entities opportunities to focus their lobbying efforts and influence on matters facing forthcoming FCC consideration. While these organizations were receiving advance word, other parties, such as consumer and public interest groups, with interest in matters before the FCC were not so informed. This placed these parties, who may have views differing from the organizations receiving the information, at a disadvantage. The actions of FCC staff present an appearance of favoritism and unfairness that is troublesome. The public should have confidence that the FCC will deal with all parties interested in issues before the FCC in a fair and equitable manner. To offer an advantage to some stakeholders through the selective release of supposedly confidential information raises serious questions, including questions concerning why a FCC staff person would take such an action. It is also troubling that the FCC did not provide GAO with comments on its report or recommendation. I would appreciate receiving your comments on the GAO report, and I encourage you to also provide those comments to GAO. I also urge the FCC to implement the GAO’s recommendation on ensuring equal access to information. This would help ensure the integrity of and public confidence in the FCC’s decision-making process. It may also be useful for the FCC to establish performance measures related to information access so that it can assure Congress that rules preventing the release of inappropriate information are being followed. Further, I strongly recommend that you direct your Inspector General to conduct a review, within one year of implementing corrective actions to improve internal procedures and controls over confidential information, to ensure that such corrective actions are effective. Finally, I believe that the FCC should take appropriate disciplinary action against staff who disclose nonpublic information. Thank you for your attention to this serious matter. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, José E. SerranoChairmanSubcommittee on Financial Services and General GovernmentCommittee on Appropriations ###
10.04.2007	Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to the President’s Task Force on Puerto Rico’s Status today. *** October 4, 2007 Mr. Steven A. Engel Deputy Assistant Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530 Ms. Maggie Grant Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Intergovernmental Affairs The White House Washington, D.C Dear Mr. Engel and Ms. Grant: Thank you for your letter inviting me to brief the President’s Task Force on Puerto Rico’s Status. It is my understanding that in addition to inviting Members of Congress with an interest in the Puerto Rico status issue, you are inviting the Governor and representatives from the Statehood and Commonwealth parties. It has, however, come to my attention, that you have deliberately excluded representatives of the Puerto Rican Independence Party. Until an invitation is extended to the Independence Party, I will be unable to accept this invitation to appear before the Task Force. As the main sponsor of H.R. 900, the Puerto Rico Democracy Act of 2007, I believe that my expertise and perspective would be both informative and helpful to this Task Force. In addition, I will encourage others to refuse to appear because it will be impossible for this Task Force to form a correct and accurate judgment about Puerto Rico’s status and relationship with the Government of the United States without the valuable participation of the Independence Party. I look forward to an immediate explanation for this oversight. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
10.03.2007	Congressman José E. Serrano introduced a resolution last week condemning the recent anti-immigrant actions on the part of the notorious Ku Klux Klan in Virginia. According to multiple press reports, the hate-group distributed numerous racist flyers in Manassas, Virginia attacking immigrants. The text of the resolution is included below. “I introduced this resolution because I believe that Congress must go on the record strongly condemning the actions of this hate group,” Serrano said. “I believe that the anti-immigrant sentiment in this country, stirred up by the demagoguery of the anti-immigrant advocates, has stimulated the extremist fringe hate groups to actions. This is a real wake-up call—the terms and tone of the debate over immigration must change. This resolution is but a small step in leading the way to a more civil and humane debate over an issue that has a human element.” *** Resolution text: H.Res. 693 Condemning the recent actions of the Ku Klux Klan. Whereas the Ku Klux Klan has long preached hate against people of an ethnicity, race or religion differing from its members; Whereas the Ku Klux Klan has recently distributed hate-filled, anti-immigrant fliers in Manassas, Virginia and other places; Whereas the distribution of these flyers is yet another attempt to demonize minorities to further the Ku Klux Klan’s own extremist philosophy; Whereas the Ku Klux Klan violently opposed the Civil Rights Movement by terrorizing innocent people; Whereas civil society must always strongly denounce the pernicious racism and violence espoused by the Ku Klux Klan; Whereas the terrible actions of the Ku Klux Klan highlights the need to be more welcoming to immigrants and; Whereas the Ku Klux Klan has long used hate and violence to spread fear among people they view as antithetical to their disturbing vision of the future of the United States as a place that excludes all differences of belief, nationality or race: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, that the House of Representatives strongly condemns the Ku Klux Klan for its long history of hate and for its most recent expression through the targeting of immigrant groups. ###
09.20.2007	Chairman José E. Serrano of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government sent the following letter on satellite radio service to the Federal Communications Commission this week questioning the lack of service outside the mainland United States. *** September 19, 2007 Hon. Kevin J. Martin Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Martin: As a member of Congress and a United States citizen, it is my firm belief that services should be equally available to all people living under the American flag. Yet, with the rising popularity of satellite radio, it has come to my attention that XM Satellite Radio Holdings (XM) and Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. (Sirius) provide service in the contiguous United States but not in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the other U.S. territories. While coast-to-coast satellite radio access is a remarkable technological advance, this access is incomplete. Those living in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa remain excluded from listening to satellite radio. A Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) released on March 7, 1997 details technical qualifications for satellite radio access. According to this NPRM, “50-state coverage is not mandatory for all satellite services.” Rather, the FCC mandates satellite radio companies to provide full coverage in the 48 contiguous United States, but only encourages coverage to extend “to other areas or territories of the United States where practical to do so for first generation systems.” At the time of publication, this NPRM outlined service requirements for first-generation providers with the expectation that access would grow alongside technological advances to accommodate the rest of the United States and its territories. More than ten years later, though technology has expanded in the United States and worldwide, satellite radio access remains the same. This inconsistent service is particularly troubling in light of the March 20, 2007 applications filed by XM and Sirius seeking FCC consent to merge. We discussed this proposed merger during the FCC Appropriations Hearing before the Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government on April 17, 2007, where I voiced my concerns about the effect of this proposed merger on the consumer. My current concerns surrounding equal access are rooted in this same fundamental notion. Given the heightened popularity of satellite radio, what steps is the FCC taking to ensure equal access for everyone living under the American flag? Furthermore, as the FCC reviews the XM/Sirius merger request, what considerations exist that will lead to expanding the consumer base to Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico and other U.S. Territories? In a Question for the Record from the April 17th hearing, you replied that in order for the FCC to grant the XM and Sirius applications in connection with their proposed merger, “the Commission must find that such a grant will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity.” I hope and strongly encourage the FCC to include equal access as a central tenet in your review. Finally, the timing of my concerns detailed in this letter is significant: Hispanic Heritage Month began on September 15th and lasts through October 15th. Both XM and Sirius are paying tribute to Hispanic Heritage Month through special programming on their Latin channels all month long. As someone born in Puerto Rico, it saddens me to think that many who have contributed to this celebratory month can not access or participate in the celebration! I would hope that we can work together to learn from this experience by prioritizing satellite radio access to everyone living under the American flag, regardless of where they live. I look forward to hearing from you about the FCC’s plans to more strongly encourage satellite radio access to those living in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the other U.S. Territories, particularly as the FCC reviews the XM/Sirius merger request. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Chairman Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government Committee on Appropriations ###
09.19.2007	Yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to the National Science Foundation expressing his deep concerns about the potential closure of the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. *** September 18, 2007 Dr. Arden Bement Director National Science Foundation 4201 Wilson Boulevard Arlington, VA 22230 Dear Dr. Bement: I am writing to express my concern over the National Science Foundation’s current and future intentions for the Arecibo Observatory located in Arecibo, Puerto Rico. I strongly believe that Arecibo still has a vital role to play in the U.S. and worldwide scientific community. As you know, Arecibo Observatory has been, and continues to be, at the forefront of radio astronomy research and atmospheric sciences. Scientists from around the globe use Arecibo’s facilities to further research in everything from astrophysics to the atmospheric sciences. There have been several new discoveries in the past year alone, which continue to justify the importance and necessity of the Arecibo Observatory. The potential loss of this device would not just be a blow to Puerto Rico, but to the scientific community at-large. Additionally, Arecibo plays an important role in the local Puerto Rican economy, providing jobs to members of the surrounding community. It also has an important public relations mission as well, with more than 120,000 visitors, including 25,000 schoolchildren, coming to the facility on an annual basis. At a time when the United States is trying to promote science-related career opportunities to people of color, it is seems unwise to move to close a facility that serves as such an important resource to more than 4 million Latinos in the United States. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I have helped increase NSF’s major facilities and construction budget by $50 million dollars since 2004. Moreover, Congress has stated its intention to continue this trend. Because of this, I do not understand why the proposal to build new observatories must come at the expense of those that continue to provide important and relevant information to the scientific community. Given Congress’ interest in renewing our nation’s scientific research capabilities, we should be expanding our facilities, rather than closing them. It is my hope that you will reconsider this decision. However, please be assured that I will do everything in my power to ensure that federal funding does not fall below the critical level that would force the Arecibo Observatory to close. I look forward to hearing from you on this important issue. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
09.14.2007	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano WHEN: Saturday – September 15, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Lincoln Hospital Auditorium, 234 East 149th Street, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano give the keynote address on healthcare and the healthcare system at the Latinos for National Health Insurance forum in the South Bronx. In his speech, Serrano will lay out his vision for covering the uninsured and improving the quality of care given to all Americans, especially minorities. The forum is sponsored by multiple organizations including Generations Plus Network, NYU Center for Latino Health, NYC-LCLLA, Center for Health of Urban Minorities, For a Better Bronx, Healthcare-Now!, Community Empowerment Network, Alianza Dominicana, PNHP New York, El Diario-La Prensa and NYS Federation of Hispanic Chambers of Commerce. ###
09.12.2007	***Please note these are three separate events*** ***Serrano to Attend Ribbon Cutting for Tito Puente Legacy Project WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Margie Puente, widow of Tito Puente; Joe Conzo Sr. Curator of the Tito Puente Legacy Project; Dr. Dolores Fernandez President of Hostos Community College; Robert Sancho, Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center; Jose Encarnacion, music historian WHEN: Thursday – September 13, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Hostos Library, 475 Grand Concourse, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will help cut the ribbon for the Tito Puente Legacy Project, Phase One, which will be a permanent exhibition of the great Latin musician’s works displayed in the Hostos Library at Hostos Community College in the Bronx. In time, Puente's complete works will become part of a future Tito Puente Museum at Hostos Community College. ***Serrano Inaugurate Hostos Flag Exhibit WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Dr. Dolores Fernandez, President of Hostos Community College. WHEN: Thursday – September 13, 2007 at 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Hostos Community College, 475 Grand Concourse, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will be inaugurating an exhibit at Hostos Community College of the Puerto Rican and Dominican flags that were flown into space on the NASA space shuttle at his request. The Congressman sent the flags on these space shuttle voyages as a small token of respect and admiration for the vast contributions of both these proud communities to the United States. ***Serrano to Help in Anheuser-Busch Groundbreaking WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Edward Fitzmaurice, Vice President Anheuser-Busch; local elected officials WHEN: Thursday – September 13, 2007 at 1:30 p.m. WHERE: Food Center Drive between Krasdale and Sultana Distributors, Hunts Point, The Bronx WHAT: Congressman Serrano will help in breaking ground for a new Anheuser-Busch distribution facility in the Hunts Point Food Distribution Center. ###
09.11.2007	Six years after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, Congressman José E. Serrano today remembered the sad events and heroic acts of that tragic day. “So much has been said and written about 9/11 in these past six years, but nothing can do justice to the horror and sadness we all felt the day the terrorists attacked my city,” Serrano said. “On 9/11 we all stood shocked and uncertain about the future. In the following days, all Americans stood together, united by a sense of patriotism and national unity. “Six years later, there is unfinished work for us to do. I look forward to the day when Americans can visit a finished Ground Zero memorial where they can pay their respects to the heroes of 9/11 as well as mourn those lost that day. We must ensure that those injured in the clean-up are taken care of properly. And we must honor the best traditions of our nation as we attack terrorism with all our might. “But today we must set aside time to remember those individuals who lost their lives that day. They were ordinary people who faced extraordinary circumstances, and whose final minutes included acts of great decency, courage, and immeasurable generosity. In these simple acts, these friends and neighbors, colleagues and co-workers, wives and husbands, sons and daughters proved that they were indeed the strength of this nation.” ###
09.07.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano applauded Rep. Luis Gutierrez’ decision to seek re-election to the U.S. Congress. “I was so pleased to hear that my friend Luis Gutierrez had decided to continue his career here in Washington,” Serrano said. “Luis is one of the most energetic and effective Members of Congress, and with his leadership, fair and just immigration reform is going to become a reality. He will be working to make sure that immigrants, both present and future, will have much better chances of being treated fairly in our nation. “At the same time, the people of the 4th Congressional District in Illinois can now know that they will continue to have one of the most active members representing them in Congress. “Luis and I have worked on many issues together related to protecting and promoting Latino culture and heritage, as well as issues related to Puerto Rico and Puerto Ricans. He also champions many issues that are important to me that will benefit all Americans—from increasing the minimum wage to ending the senseless war in Iraq. I look forward to continuing our successful professional relationship and of course our close friendship.” ###
09.07.2007	In the wake of a decision by the Department of Health and Human Services to deny New York State’s efforts to expand health care coverage for children, Congressman José E. Serrano stood with Governor Eliot Spitzer as he called for the decision to be reconsidered. “New York State, led by Governor Spitzer, was trying to move in the right direction—toward ensuring that all children in the state are given health care coverage,” Serrano said. “Unfortunately the Bush Administration decided to put mistaken ideology ahead of children’s health. I urge them to reconsider this flawed decision and allow New York to lead the way. Children must come first.” ###
09.06.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced more than $1.4 million in federal grants for Bronx organizations in support of their public health initiatives. The grants will be distributed as follows: New York Harm Reduction Educators will receive $400,000 for their screening, intervention, outreach and pre-treatment programs relating to substance abuse. St. Barnabas Hospital will be granted $400,000 for substance abuse treatment and HIV preventions services. Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center will receive $399,425 through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program/Information Technology Networks of Care Initiative as well as a grant for $268,800 for residency training in general and pediatric dentistry. “These grants represent a large financial commitment on the part of the federal government to the health of the people of the Bronx,” Serrano said. “Public health grants do so much to improve the lives of the people afflicted by disease and also the people surrounding them. These grants will help uplift and heal our community. These great institutions are doing so much to help the Bronx— and these grants are the least we can do to support them.” “The project, which we have renamed ‘Your Opportunity: Healthier Outlooks through Motivation to Improve and Empower,’ also known as Project YO HOMIE!, will expand our existing street-side harm reduction, case management, mental health, HIV counseling and testing and HIV education programs located in Bronx and East Harlem communities with high incidence rates for HIV infection and intravenous drug use,” said Carol Lemus, Executive Director of New York Harm Reduction Educators. “These expanded services will create multi-level pretreatment services with a bridge to substance abuse treatment and case management services and promote the following behaviors: reduce or eliminate substance use, reduce or eliminate sharing needles, increase the use of negotiation skills in high risk sexual or drug-related situations, increase the proper use of sexual barrier products and increase awareness of and access to HIV testing and substance abuse treatment resources and supportive services available in the community.” “Congressman Jose Serrano and SAMHSA recognized the on-going cyclical battle of substance abuse, HIV exposure and destructive behaviors within the community that St. Barnabas Hospital serves,” said Paul Faulk Jr., Administrative Director of the Addiction Medicine Department at St. Barnabas Hospital. “The grant provides us the needed resources to break the cycle and have the clients coordinated in medical, mental health and community services that will improve the quality of life for them, their families and their neighbors in our community. This is the mission of St. Barnabas Hospital.” "This grant will enable us to begin to implement an innovative new project linking the various care providers in the south and central Bronx serving people with HIV and AIDS," said Dr. Edward Telzak Director of the AIDS Program of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center. "We will be working to both establish and connect various electronic databases containing important patient information, improving patient care and keeping people from falling through the cracks." “The legislative intent of the dentistry grant program and the needs of this population will be directly served by increasing the number of healthcare providers capable of accessing and addressing the oral health of this under served patient population,” said Dr. Paul E. Gates, Chairman, Department of Dentistry at the Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center. “The project is designed to assist in the elimination of both barriers to dental care and existing health disparities. This specific program will incorporate training in the relationship of oral disease to systemic disease, curricular reform, cultural competence and faculty development.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee.
08.27.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement regarding the resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. “I am relieved that Alberto Gonzales has finally decided to leave the Department of Justice, which he has harmed greatly in his time there,” Serrano said. “Like the Administration he served, he will be remembered for his reckless commitment to politics above fairness. The Justice Department has suffered greatly during his tenure there—from the questionably removed U.S. Attorneys to suspiciously partisan prosecutions. I believe that with Mr. Gonzales gone, the Justice Department finally will be able to recover.” ###
08.14.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano decried the new anti-immigrant tactics and rules that the Bush Administration plans to implement. “This anti-immigrant push on the part of the Administration is nothing more than political posturing of the worst kind—the kind that hurts families by tearing their lives apart,” Serrano said. “President Bush’s leadership on this issue was almost non-existent as Congress prepared to tackle reforming the immigration system. Now as a pressure tactic, Bush is making life more difficult for immigrants, their families, and the employers that depend on their labor. This is not the way to exert leadership in this debate. “Everyone knows that immigrants come here in search of a better life for themselves and their children. Every crackdown, every concession to the anti-immigrant zealots, every deported parent takes our nation further from its historic role as a beacon of hope and opportunity for the world. “Immigrants are central to our nation’s history, culture and economy. Many in Washington, now including President Bush, seem to have forgotten these truths. Despite these harsh measures, the immigration debate will continue. Like many others who remember these facts, I will be arguing for fair and just treatment of people who are following in the footsteps of the millions of immigrants who built this great nation.” ###
08.06.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated CITGO for its dedication to helping underprivileged communities as the oil giant announced a series of grants for community organizations in the Bronx. “CITGO is again leading the way in corporate citizenship,” Serrano said. “Here we have an oil company giving back to the community, not because it is forced to, but because it knows that this is the right thing to do. The organizations that CITGO has selected for these grants are fighting daily to uplift the Bronx and build a better future for Bronx residents. These grants will prove vital in furthering those goals.” CITGO announced that it will give approximately $3.3 million in grants to multiple Bronx organizations over the next three years, including The Point Community Development Corporation, Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice, and Rocking the Boat. The projects funded include environmental restoration projects and a community food co-op. The North Star Fund, a community foundation that works closely with Bronx organizations, will help administer many of the grants and track the progress of the grantees. “If CITGO wants to score points with my community by funding good organizations and important projects, then we would be foolish to reject their generosity. I’d be happy to have any other corporations come here and score all the political points they can afford,” Serrano added. “On behalf of the Bronx, I would like to say thank you to CITGO and its forward-thinking directors for this support. It is deeply appreciated.” “I also want to applaud the groups that are involved in this program. Their work is invaluable to this community. I look forward to seeing the results of their great work. I also want to thank a group that is not a grantee, but had a very significant role in the process: Mothers on the Move. As always, their leadership and work in this process on behalf of the Bronx was instrumental and deeply important.” ###
08.03.2007	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Venezuelan Ambassador Bernardo Alvarez, CITGO CEO Alejandro Granado, leaders of multiple Bronx non-profits. WHEN: Monday – August 6th, 2007 at 9:30 a.m. WHERE: Hunts Point Boathouse – 1391 Lafayette Ave, intersection of Lafayette and Edgewater Road, The Bronx, New York WHAT: Congressman Serrano will preside over a ceremony where CITGO and local non-profits will sign grant agreements worth more than $1 million for the current year, and potentially over $3 million over the course of three years. The organizations work in diverse areas of community-building and environmental preservation activities and have been carefully selected to participate in this ground-breaking partnership based on their program activities and past accomplishments. ###
07.31.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated the Popular Democratic Party for recognizing that Puerto Rico is a colony for the first time since the party was organized. Serrano has always labeled Puerto Rico’s current relationship with the United States as colonial. “I was pleased to see that my friends in the PDP have finally come to recognize what I have been saying for years – Puerto Rico is currently a colony,” Serrano said. “They may be doing this to go to the U.N., but the truth of the matter is that the U.N. has no jurisdiction over Puerto Rico’s status—only the U.S. Congress has that power.” “They should come to the U.S. Congress for a final ruling on status—because sadly that is the only place where the current status can be changed. They should not be surprised, however, when they do come to the U.S. Congress that very few Members will be willing to give Puerto Rico their Christmas wish list of enhanced commonwealth. Besides that, Members of Congress realize that enhanced commonwealth is nothing more than a continuation of the colonial relationship. “Puerto Ricans must decide whether they want to be a state or an independent nation. No other option exists—except the current colonial status.” ###
07.25.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that an affordable housing provision that he had championed was included in the final version of the Transportation-HUD appropriations bill, which passed the House last night. The legislative language Serrano inserted would allow localities the “right of first refusal” when the federal government is selling low-income housing, and would also ensure that the purchase prices include the cost of needed repairs. “Affordable housing is a growing problem, both in my community and around the nation,” Congressman Serrano said. “We must do all we can to preserve the affordable housing stock that we have, rather than letting it be sold off little by little, leaving working families with fewer and fewer reasonably priced options. The provision I inserted into this spending bill will give localities further ability to safeguard affordable housing in a manner that is more fair and reasonable.” When a building falls into disrepair or an owner fails to comply with its mortgage payment schedule, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) can take ownership of the property under what is known as an “enforcement action.” State and local governments then have the option of buying the property from HUD under a “right of first refusal” sale. Historically, such sales have resulted in the preservation and rehabilitation of severely distressed buildings across the nation. Since passage of the Deficit Reduction Act (DRA) of 2005, HUD has not made a single sale through a “right of first refusal.” HUD determined that the DRA prohibited the Department from taking into consideration a building’s physical condition when determining its fair market price. The language Serrano inserted in the FY08 Transportation-HUD appropriations bill calls for the reversal this overly restrictive interpretation, and directs HUD “to consider industry standard appraisal practices,” including the cost of bringing a property into code compliance, when valuing properties for sales to state and local government. “In these times of rising housing prices and stagnant wages, government has to step in to protect reasonably-priced housing stock. The government has to be aggressive and smart; and my provision will add another tool to its arsenal in the fight against the loss of affordable housing,” Serrano added. ###
07.24.2007	Late last week, Congressman José E. Serrano introduced the “Affordable Financial Services Enhancement Act,” H.R. 3113, a measure designed to help credit unions to offer their services in “underserved” areas. Serrano represents the Bronx, an area which has struggled in recent decades with a severe lack of access to financial institutions. Many credit unions have been prevented from serving such communities since 2006, when the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) was forced by threat of a lawsuit to revise their regulations allowing all credit unions to expand into underserved areas. “I come from a community that has a great need for access to mainstream financial services,” Congressman Serrano said. “We feel the direct effect of the regulations preventing more credit unions from providing their services in our community. H.R. 3113, if passed, would untie the hands of the credit unions to do what they do best; help provide low-cost savings and borrowing services. I know many communities, both urban and rural, would benefit from credit unions’ enhanced ability to offer their services.” Congressman Serrano became aware of this issue through his chairmanship of the House Appropriations Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee. The subcommittee held a hearing this spring on financial services for disadvantaged communities, in which the Administrator of the NCUA testified to the problems that credit unions faced when trying to expand into underserved communities. The Congressman’s bill would simply allow all credit union types the ability to expand and offer their services in underserved areas. Current law would require them to operate an office/facility in the area in which they expand within two years, meaning that the end result would be increased financial services opportunities for low-income individuals. H.R. 3113 has been referred to the House Committee on Financial Services, where it awaits further action. ###
07.20.2007	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Senator Charles Schumer, other elected officials, tenants, musicians, and historians. WHEN: Monday, July 23, 9:30 AM WHERE: 1520 Sedgwick Avenue, The Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will join in the celebration of New York State’s recognition of the building at 1520 Sedgwick Ave. as the official birth place of hip-hop as wall as bringing recognition to the need for preserving affordable housing in the borough. 1520 Sedgwick Avenue, like many other Mitchell-Lama housing in the Bronx, is in danger of being converted into market-rate housing, effectively pricing the tenants out of their homes. Serrano believes strongly that the cultural history and affordable housing of the Bronx must be preserved. The event Monday will be a celebration and a rally in support of both those goals.
07.19.2007	Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (NY-16) and Joseph Crowley (NY-7) announced that they had secured $4.5 million in federal funding for the Orchard Beach shore protection project in the Bronx. The funding was contained in the FY 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which the House passed on July 17th. “The people of the Bronx deserve a functional and expansive Orchard Beach, as it was envisioned by its creators decades ago, when it was called the Riviera of the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “With the funds that my friend Joe Crowley and I were able to secure, Orchard Beach will be restored to its former glory. The Bronx has always been underserved when it comes to recreation opportunities. We are turning that around one project at a time. I look forward to using the new, refurbished Orchard Beach in coming summers alongside other Bronxites.” “A recent report has confirmed what Bronx families already know, that Orchard Beach needs to be cleaned up and restored to live up to its former glory as a welcome summer destination,” said Congressman Crowley. “With this $4.5 million in federal funds that Rep. Serrano and I were able to secure, Orchard Beach will receive these improvements - its shores will be expanded and sand replenished - so it can accommodate more recreational use and be preserved for future generations of Bronx residents.” Serrano and Crowley have secured multiple grants for the Orchard Beach project in past appropriations bills. Orchard Beach had experienced severe erosion, which reduced the size of the beach and caused overcrowding. The Serrano/Crowley project will restore and stabilize the beach, ensuring that the popular facility is available for generations of Bronx residents to come.
07.13.2007	Last night, Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007 (H.R. 1851), calling the bill a “much-needed improvement” to the Section 8 program. “I was proud to vote in favor of the Section 8 reform bill last night because it makes a series of important improvements to this program,” Serrano said. “Affordable housing is a serious and growing problem across the country and especially in New York City. Section 8 vouchers directly help individuals and families struggling with housing prices. The upgrades to this program contained in the bill will deliver real benefits to people across the nation.” The key provisions in the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act will make the voucher funding formula more efficient and also enact general program simplifications, enabling an increase in the number of vouchers by 20,000 in each of the next five years—eventually providing 100,000 new vouchers. The bill also includes a provision to permit housing agencies to let families use housing vouchers as a down-payment on a first-time home purchase. Finally, the bill will increase tenant protections. “I am proud that Democrats are leading the way in helping people deal with the problem of costly housing,” Serrano added. “When this bill passes the Senate and is signed into law, people around the country and in my community will find that the federal government is doing a little more to help them continue living in safe, decent, affordable homes.” ###
07.11.2007	Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (NY-16) and Carolyn Maloney (NY-14) announced $200 million for the 2nd Avenue Subway project had been included in the FY2008 Transportation – HUD appropriations bill, which passed the full Appropriations Committee today. “As the only New York City Member on the Appropriations Committee, I was happy to be able to help secure funding for this vital project,” Serrano said. “New York City has a subway system that is the envy of many cities around the world. The new 2nd Avenue line will only improve our great system, making it more convenient for many users and less crowded for all. I would like to extend my thanks to my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for including this funding and of course to my friend Carolyn Maloney, who has been a tireless advocate for the 2nd Avenue Subway line. Many of her constituents and many of mine will see their commutes up and down the East Side of Manhattan improve when this project is complete.” “This is the largest infusion of federal funding to date for the Second Avenue Subway, with more to come when the MTA and the federal government sign a full-funding grant agreement for the project,” said Maloney. “This is great news for all New York City straphangers, but especially those on the Lexington Avenue line, the most overcrowded subway in the nation. On day one, the Second Avenue Subway will carry nearly 200,000 riders, reducing crowding on the Lex line by 13 percent.” Serrano and Maloney have been long-time supporters of the 2nd Avenue Subway project, which when completed, will ease overcrowding and delays on the Lexington Avenue line, and provide new more convenient service for many users on the East Side of Manhattan. ###
07.11.2007	Today, Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 (H.R. 2669). The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 273-149, would boost college financial aid by about $18 billion over the next five years. The legislation pays for itself by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry. “I’m very pleased that the House passed this vital bill,” Serrano said. “With college costs shooting through the roof, our government needs to do everything in its power to help students pay for college. It’s such a vital step in achieving the American dream. The goal of lowering barriers to the American dream is central to what the Democrats are achieving here in Washington. “Most students rely on financial aid to make college a reality, and so this bill will be a real help to them and their families. In my opinion, the government must work to make paying for college easier. This legislation is a serious step in that direction.” Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship would increase by $500 over the next five years. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, the maximum Pell Grant would reach $4,900 in 2008 and $5,200 in 2011, up from $4,050 in 2006. This would restore the Pell Grant’s purchasing power, which would benefit about 6 million low- and moderate-income students. The legislation would also cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. Like legislation passed by the House earlier this year, the College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in equal steps over the next five years. Once fully phased-in, this would save the typical student borrower – with $13,800 in need-based student loan debt – $4,400 over the life of the loan. Additionally, the legislation would prevent student borrowers from facing unmanageable levels of federal student debt by guaranteeing that borrowers will never have to spend more than 15 percent of their yearly discretionary income on loan repayments and by allowing borrowers facing economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 20 years. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden imposed on students and families by the cost of college, including: Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools; Loan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professions; Increased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans; New tuition cost containment strategies; and Landmark investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions and minority serving institutions. ###
07.02.2007	Last week, Chairman José E. Serrano of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government led the charge to defeat an amendment to his funding bill that would have prevented the IRS from providing the ‘Where’s my Refund’ portion of its website in Spanish. In the end, the amendment was defeated by a vote of 257-165. Congressman Serrano’s remarks in opposition to the divisive amendment follow: “Mr. Chairman, this is the kind of amendment that shows up every so often. It [falsely] plays to our patriotic feelings and to our feelings of wanting to be good Americans. So what you tell Americans is that if a language other than English is used anywhere in the country for any purpose, somehow ... it attacks our democracy and threatens our democracy. “We are not saying that we want people to stay away from learning to speak English, and I think it is important to note that when people come into this country and what some folks go through to come into this country, that is a statement about how much they want to be in this country. Is it true that Mom and Dad may take a little longer to speak English? Absolutely. But the young man that comes in or the young woman that comes in at the age of 8, 9, 10, 12, whatever, I assure you that 10 months after they are here, they are acting very American and a year or two later they are speaking English. That's a fact of life. “In fact, I know this for a fact as one who spoke Spanish before he spoke English. When Hispanics sit around the dinner table and the issue of language comes up, it has never been a plot against the English language. It is usually the lament by the grandmother that the grandchildren no longer speak Spanish. That is the reality of America. That is how it has been from day one. That is how it is always going to be. “Now, what is it that we provide here? We are saying that if you still have not reached that point where you feel comfortable enough in English to deal with government services, you can go to a Web site, listen to this, and say, ‘Where is my tax refund?’ That in itself makes a statement. It says you are working in this country, that you are paying taxes in the country, that you have a refund coming, and you want to know where your refund is. So to make it easier for you to communicate and get that service, the IRS has seen fit to put together that kind of a service. “Now, folks who deal with the IRS on a regular basis like the IRS National Taxpayers Advocate, in the annual report earlier this year, commended the IRS for the efforts to establish a Spanish-language version of ‘Where's My Refund?’ “So if you don't like the fact that this service is provided, say that. That's fine. But don't make it sound like this is a threat to our democracy. This country is strong for what it is and who we are, not because we have a website that allows people, who speak Spanish and feel a little more comfortable as they transition into English, to get this kind of information. “What is ironic is that we come to the House floor and make all these comments about government agencies offering Spanish as a language, but, Mr. Chairman, none of our colleagues from the other side ever get up and criticize their friends in corporate America who on a daily basis advertise in Spanish. “Do you know that there is an ESPN in Spanish, there is an ESPN Deportes in Spanish? There's a Fox, yes, a Fox News in Spanish. There's a Fox Sports, I said Fox, in Spanish. There's a People magazine in Spanish. “Now, is that government doing that or is that corporate America, who at times hangs out more with that side than this side, doing what they know is correct to sell their products? All these folks are saying is to give a service to the people; we will do it in Spanish too. Trust me, this does not threaten the democracy at all. “If you can just imagine, and I think you do because Lou Dobbs and other people show you all the time, what some people go through to get to this country, not to mention others who enter here with documents. You don't go through all of that to decide later that you don't want to be part of this society and not speak English. That is a fallacy. That is not true. And I can tell you firsthand it doesn't happen.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budgets of multiple agencies, including the IRS.
06.28.2007	Washington, DC – Chairman José E. Serrano of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government successfully guided his funding bill through to passage by the House of Representatives today. The final vote on the bill was 240-179. His pro-consumer bill will bring the priorities of multiple agencies closer in line with the needs of the citizens—especially the neediest. “This is my first chairmanship of an Appropriations subcommittee, and it has been an honor and a privilege,” Serrano said. “The bill approved by the House today funds the Treasury Department, the District of Columbia, the Federal Judiciary, the FCC, the FTC, the SEC and multiple other agencies. As we conducted hearings with these agencies, it became clear that we needed to craft a bill that improves government services for the people. The American people should get the best services government can give.” Serrano’s FY 2008 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill will make the following investments: Community Development Financial Institutions Fund: $100 million, $45.5 million above 2007 and $71.4 million above the President’s request, to support economic development and financial services in disadvantaged and rural communities through housing loans, micro-business loans, community development banks and credit unions, and other efforts aimed at economic development and the expansion of low-cost financial services. Internal Revenue Service: $3.6 billion, $74.6 million above 2007 and $51.9 million above the President’s request, including: Pre-filing Taxpayer Service needs: $450.4 million, $40.8 million above 2007 and $42.6 million above the President’s request for efforts to educate taxpayers about their rights and obligations before they file and to help taxpayers prepare tax returns at IRS walk-in sites around the country. National Taxpayer Advocate: $179.6 million, $9.3 million above the President’s request to help individuals solve ongoing tax problems with the IRS and uses information on these problems to provide suggestions on how to prevent them from being repeated. Election Assistance Commission: $300 million, not funded in FY2007 or the President’s request, for grants to help states comply with the Help America Vote Act, including upgrading voting machines and voter registration databases so that they are ready for the 2008 Presidential election. Federal Trade Commission: $247.5 million, $36.2 million above 2007 and $7.25 million above the President’s request to improve consumer protection activities, including investigations of sub-prime lending and identity theft, and to keep the marketplace free from anti-competitive business practices. Consumer Product Safety Commission: $66.8 million, $4.1 million above 2007 and $3.6 million above the President’s request, to protect the public from unreasonable risks of serious injury or death from more than 15,000 types of consumer products under the agency's jurisdiction. Federal Employee Cost-of-Living Adjustment: A cost-of-living adjustment of 3.5 percent is included to continue the tradition of pay-parity between civilian and military employees. District of Columbia Rights: Puts control of local government funds in the hands of the local government by lifting many restrictions on the District including allowing the DC government to use local funds for needle exchange programs. Serrano summed up the debate over the bill by saying “The bill is $1.9 billion above the fiscal year 2007 level but $243 million below the President’s budget request. I’m proud of the new funding and policy priorities that we were able to include in this bill, and satisfied we did the best we could with a tight budget. While it doesn’t do all that I would have liked to do, it is a good first step toward making important to make sure that government is serving the people in the best manner possible.” ###
06.27.2007	Washington, DC – In an open letter to the Hunts Point community, Congressman José E. Serrano yesterday reiterated his strong opposition to including a new waste transfer station, which would handle Manhattan’s construction and demolition debris, in any plans for redevelopment of the Oak Point brown field site in the South Bronx . In the letter, Serrano writes that “It is … inconceivable to me that anyone in my district would advocate for the expenditure of millions in public and private funds to build a new truck receiving facility for construction and demolition waste in this, one of the most polluted and beleaguered communities in the United States.” Serrano is long-time advocate of borough self-sufficiency and has strongly supported the reopening and repurposing of Manhattan’s marine transfer stations (MTS), including the W. 59th Street MTS, which will handle much of Manhattan’s commercial waste if New York’s Solid Waste Management Plan is fully implemented. He added “the community I represent is rich in innovators and can itself be a tremendous resource in the planning and development of the Oak Point site… I would call upon the city to use that expertise and help convene an open planning process that would explore a number of scenarios for the site and elicit input from a great number of community members and local institutions." Serrano concluded “I will do whatever is required to ensure that this project does not move forward.” The full text of the open letter follows: *** An Open Letter to the Hunts Point Community from Congressman José E. Serrano June 26, 2007 Dear Friends: I write to you to express my growing concern about the fate of the largest brownfield site in our district, the 28 acre Oak Point or “Britestarr Homes” site. While in past letters I have written in strong opposition to the construction of a prison on that property, today I write about what I see as an equally grave threat to the health and well being of the southern end of our Congressional district. It saddens me to learn that some in my borough have seen fit to promote a project on that site which will almost certainly result in the establishment of a new construction and demolition (C & D) debris transfer station in the already overburdened Hunts Point community. For over a decade, I have spoken clearly and unambiguously about the centrality of borough self-sufficiency and environmental justice to my vision for a truly equitable citywide solid waste management plan. In recent months, I, along with other elected officials and community organizations, have publicly and repeatedly stated my support for the Mayor’s plan to reopen Manhattan’s shuttered marine transfer stations at E. 91st Street and at Gansevoort in the West Village, because I believe that Manhattan must shoulder a greater burden for the waste it generates if we truly seek make our air more breathable and our city a more livable place for all New Yorkers. Last week, I wrote to each and every member of the New York State Assembly urging them to support the reopening of the Gansevoort marine transfer station. I took this action in part so that space at the 59th Street MTS can be made available to handle Manhattan’s commercial and C & D waste, thereby drastically reducing the pernicious practice of trucking such waste to the South Bronx and Williamsburg-Greenpoint for processing and export. It is therefore inconceivable to me that anyone in my district would advocate for the expenditure of millions in public and private funds to build a new truck receiving facility for C & D waste in this, one of the most polluted and beleaguered communities in the . I cannot in good conscience welcome more of Manhattan’s waste after I, along with my allies in the environmental community, have expended so much energy on insisting that Manhattan handle and export its own commercial waste through its own pre-existing waste-handling infrastructure. To do so would be to unravel the whole painstakingly crafted platform of borough self-sufficiency, equity, and environmental justice that so many of us have fought for, and undo years of organizing, consensus-building, and yes, public protest, simply to create a handful of what are generously called “manufacturing” jobs, but are really at the lowest rungs of the waste industry ladder. So it was with amazement and dismay that I read the business plan for a project that would in fact encourage the continued importation of waste to the South Bronx for years to come, long after the W. 59th Street transfer station opens for commercial waste handling and barge export of Manhattan ’s commercial and C & D waste. Such a plan would permanently brand the southern end of my district a regional destination for waste. Private transfer stations, I have learned, operate with their own internal logic which requires the movement of a steady volume of debris near the upper limits of a station's permitted capacity day in and day out. Waste reduction for transfer stations is the equivalent of a drop in crime for the prison industry--enough to put a serious dent in the bottom line and to be avoided at all costs. Operators who promise to lower the cost of waste disposal only aid and abet the worst practices in the construction and demolition industry. In fact, they encourage waste and postpone the day when builders and contractors learn to conserve materials, waste less, and sort their own debris on-site. Like every New Yorker, I am required to sort and separate my own recyclables in my own apartment here in the Bronx . We should ask no less of our contractors and developers, who have never been asked to bear the true environmental costs of Manhattan 's near constant cycles of construction and demolition. These developers, who have enjoyed unprecedented success in recent years, are simply enabled by the construction of new, outer borough C & D facilities and never forced to confront the consequences of their practices. But perhaps what distresses me most about this plan is the utter lack of imagination it evinces, as if our prospects are so dim in the South Bronx that the garbage economy is all that is left for us. The Oak Point site is a large canvas and one that presumably should inspire the great minds from our community to explore many competing approaches for job creation and the highest and best use of that land. I believe that concepts like the proposed Re-Use Center in Port Morris, which would salvage and market useful items for local consumers, are imaginative models and can be beneficial for our district. However, any uses that simply process waste from other communities are, I feel, inherently regressive and utterly without merit. As I have often stated, the community I represent is rich in innovators and can itself be a tremendous resource in the planning and development of the Oak Point site. The future of this site is another opportunity for the whole city to gain from the expertise of those most directly affected by its planning decisions. I would call upon the city to use that expertise and help convene an open planning process that would explore a number of scenarios for the site and elicit input from a great number of community members and local institutions. During my 17 years in Congress, I have heard many promises by waste companies to "clean up the South Bronx ". We needed the medical waste incinerator, we were told, to keep diesel trucks out of the borough; we needed the American Marine Rail facility, they said, to prevent other boroughs' garbage from piling up at local transfer stations; and nearly fifteen years ago this month, we were told that we needed NYOFCo to prevent raw sewage from washing up on our beaches. In each case, my community was sold a bill of goods. In one instance, eight short years ago, we collectively rose up and beat back the AMR proposal, proudly proclaiming, "Hunts Point Waterfront for Hunts Point People". I am so saddened to learn that this heartening slogan has been forgotten by some, who have seemingly replaced the words "Hunts Point People" with the phrase "Waste Industry". I cannot abide this, as I could not abide the BFI incinerator, the NYOFCo pelletizer, nor the proposed AMR transfer station. And my constituents should not have to endure yet another waste industry mega-project on their waterfront. How, I would ask, could we all have so loudly and clearly opposed AMR, which was slated for the site immediately adjoining this one, and now, eight years later, welcome another waste company with open arms? If we successfully opposed AMR on the grounds that our rail capacity was too limited, our waterfront too precious, and our scarce wildlife too important a resource, how can we possibly make the opposite case for this transfer station sited in nearly the identical location? If the South Bronx Greenway was once the reason we opposed the AMR project, how is it that we now eagerly surrender the waterfront to a waste hauler and remain silent about the inevitable re-routing of our long-sought shoreline path? So, yes, I am clearly concerned about the state of our natural resources, but I am also worried about the quality of our moral resources. It is essential, I believe, that we squander neither. And rest assured that I will do whatever is required to ensure that this project does not move forward. Sincerely yours, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
06.15.2007	Washington, DC – June 15, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano marked the 103rd Anniversary of the General Slocum disaster, the most deadly maritime disaster in American peacetime history. On June 15th, 1904, more than 1,300 New Yorkers from "Kleindeutschland" or "Little Germany" on the Lower East Side boarded the General Slocum steamer to take them to a picnic at Locust Grove on Long Island Sound. As the ship steamed up the East River, a fire broke out in the boiler room. As the fire worsened, the captain of the ship beached it on North Brother Island. Immediately, Bronxites from the Port Morris and Oak Point neighborhoods on the borough’s East River shoreline began a rescue operation. They were joined by patients and medical personnel from the sanatorium on North Brother Island, who risked their own lives to pull survivors and victims from the burning wreckage. Unfortunately, due to rotting life jackets and insufficient life rafts, more than 1,000 lives were lost. Until the events of September 11th, 2001, the Slocum tragedy was the single greatest loss of life in the history of New York. "This day is a sad and tragic day in the history of New York City, and one that we must strive to commemorate due to its impact on the subsequent development of our city and the lessons it still imparts to us a century later," said Serrano. "It also reminds us that despite our outward differences, we are all New Yorkers at heart. While the General Slocum was mostly filled with German immigrant families on that day, those who attempted rescue included African-Americans, as well as Jewish, Italian, and Irish immigrants. The victims were nearly all new arrivals to this country and their children, some of whom spoke no English and many of whom still clung tightly to the traditions of their homeland. The city opened its arms to them and embraced the survivors, as it has always done for newcomers to our shores. The whole nation can and should learn from New York’s example in the aftermath of the Slocum disaster." In the 110th Congress, Congressman Serrano has reintroduced H.R. 214, the General Slocum Memorial Study Act. This legislation would direct the National Park Service to study the feasibility of including the immediate area where the boat came to rest and the nearby shoreline where the rescue was staged as a part of the national park system. The study area would include North Brother Island and part of the Oak Point shoreline.
06.12.2007	Washington, DC – In letters sent today to each member of the New York State Assembly, Congressman Jose E. Serrano and State Senator Jose M. Serrano called for the Assembly to support the full implementation of New York City’s Solid Waste Management Plan and the reopening of the Gansevoort Marine Transfer Station in lower Manhattan . The text of the letter Congressman Serrano sent follows. *** June 12, 2007 Dear Assemblyperson ________: I am writing to express my deep concern about efforts underway to derail the unfinished business of implementing New York 's Solid Waste Management Plan (SWMP). As you may know, certain communities in our city have been disproportionately burdened with handling waste and recyclables from Manhattan , creating dangerously high volumes of diesel truck traffic from waste haulers bound for outer borough transfer stations and out-of-state processing and disposal sites. The city's Solid Waste Management Plan calls for reopening the Gansevoort Marine Transfer Station (MTS) to handle Manhattan 's recyclables, freeing the 59th Street MTS for commercial waste use. The use of locally-accessible, sensibly-sited marine transfer stations, such as the one planned for Gansevoort, would lessen the City's reliance on truck-based solutions to our waste disposal crisis and dramatically reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) by both private and public sanitation trucks in the city of New York. These additional VMT, which amount to thousands of extra diesel truck miles each year, make the city as a whole a less livable place for all New Yorkers, not just for those who live near outer borough transfer stations or along major truck routes. We all live in a sea of bad air and the practice of trucking waste and recyclables great distances affects us all. But a special burden is placed on those outer borough communities such as Hunts Point, Port Morris, and Greenpoint-Williamsburg, which are citywide destinations for recyclables and other forms of commercial and municipal waste. To leave Gansevoort shuttered or further delay the full implementation of the export plan would only perpetuate the environmentally-unsound practices that for years these communities have endured. Every day we delay and defer, more children are hospitalized with severe asthmatic episodes, more parents lose work days to care for them, and our health system is further burdened by costly hospital admissions to treat a preventable illness. The Bronx does not want, nor does it need, more recyclables, commercial waste, or construction and demolition debris, and neighborhoods like East Harlem do not need any more outbound waste-hauling trucks rumbling through their streets en route to transfer stations and disposal sites. I fully support the SWMP's goal of equity and borough self-sufficiency in the handling of solid waste and the full utilization of marine transfer stations, valuable public assets that hold a solution to our waste crisis. I strongly encourage the State Assembly to overcome any outstanding objections and support the goals of environmental justice, borough self-sufficiency, and clean air by supporting the reopening of the Gansevoort transfer station. Sincerely yours, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
06.11.2007	Washington, DC – June 11, 2007 – Chairman José E. Serrano of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government successfully ushered his bill funding a large portion of the government through the full Appropriations Committee this evening. His bill will bring the priorities of multiple agencies closer in line with the needs of the citizens—especially the neediest. “This is my first chairmanship of an Appropriations subcommittee, and it has been an honor and a privilege,” Serrano said. “Today marks the culmination of a long journey from humble beginnings in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico to helping to guide the nation’s priorities via the spending decisions of the Congress. “The bill approved by the Appropriations Committee this evening funds the Treasury Department, the District of Columbia, the Federal Judiciary, the FCC, the FTC, the SEC and multiple other agencies. During hearings with the heads of many of these agencies, it became clear that this bill needed to mandate bringing the government closer to the people. The American people expect and deserve the best services their government can offer—and this bill seeks to make sure that these agencies deliver just that.” Serrano’s FY 2008 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill will ensure the government will be more responsive and more proactive on behalf of the American people. The following are some of investments that the bill would have the government make: Community Development Financial Institutions Fund: $100 million, $45.5 million above 2007 and $71.4 million above the President’s request, to support economic development and financial services in disadvantaged and rural communities through housing loans, micro-business loans, community development banks and credit unions, and other efforts aimed at economic development and the expansion of low-cost financial services. Internal Revenue Service: $3.6 billion, $74.6 million above 2007 and $51.9 million above the President’s request, including: Pre-filing Taxpayer Service needs: $450.4 million, $40.8 million above 2007 and $42.6 million above the President’s request for efforts to educate taxpayers about their rights and obligations before they file and to help taxpayers prepare tax returns at IRS walk-in sites around the country. National Taxpayer Advocate: $179.6 million, $9.3 million above the President’s request to help individuals solve ongoing tax problems with the IRS and uses information on these problems to provide suggestions on how to prevent them from being repeated. Election Assistance Commission: $300 million, not funded in the 2007 or the President’s request, for grants to help states comply with HAVA including upgrading voting machines and voter registration databases so that they are ready for the 2008 Presidential election. Federal Trade Commission: $247.5 million, $36.2 million above 2007 and $7.25 million above the President’s request to improve consumer protection activities, including investigations of sub-prime lending and identity theft, and to keep the marketplace free from anti-competitive business practices. Consumer Product Safety Commission: $66.8 million, $4.1 million above 2007 and $3.6 million above the President’s request, to protect the public from unreasonable risks of serious injury or death from more than 15,000 types of consumer products under the agency's jurisdiction. Federal Employee Cost-of-Living Adjustment: A cost-of-living adjustment of 3.5 percent is included to continue the tradition of pay-parity between civilian and military employees. District of Columbia Rights: Puts control of local government funds in the hands of the local government by lifting many restrictions on the District’s ability to use local funding. The bill does not change restrictions on the use of Federal funds. Serrano summed up saying “This funding level is tight. While the bill is $1.9 billion above the fiscal year 2007 level, it is $243 million below the President’s budget request. I’m proud of the new policy priorities that we were able to include in this bill. It is a good first step toward making important changes to funding and policies that have prevented these agencies from helping the people that need a helping hand.” ###
06.08.2007	***Please note these are separate events*** *** Serrano to Deliver Boricua College Commencement Address WHEN: Friday – June 8th, 2007 at 6:00 p.m. WHERE: St. Bartholomew’s Church, 109 E 50th St.at Park Avenue WHAT: Congressman Serrano will deliver the keynote address at the Boricua College commencement ceremonies. Boricua College serves the educational needs of Puerto Ricans and other Hispanics in New York City . *** Serrano to Receive Lifetime Achievement Award From National Puerto Rican Day Parade WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; other prominent Puerto Ricans and organizers of the 2007 parade WHEN: Friday – June 8th, 2007 at 7:30 p.m. WHERE: Marriott Marquis Hotel, 1535 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 ( Times Square ) WHAT: Congressman Serrano will be the recipient of the 2007 Lifetime Achievement award given by the National Puerto Rican Day Parade, Inc. to prominent Puerto Ricans whose accomplishments embody the ideals of the Parade. Serrano is the longest-serving elected official in Bronx history. He is also the longest-serving elected official of Puerto Rican descent in the history of the He served from 1974 through 1990 in the New York State Assembly and has served since 1990 in the U. S. Congress. ###
06.08.2007	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Juan Gonzalez, and other prominent local leaders. WHEN: Saturday – June 9th, 2007 at 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Serrano District Office, 788 Southern Boulevard, The Bronx , NY WHAT: Congressman Serrano will present journalist Juan Gonzalez with a Congressional tribute for his accomplishments as a journalist, activist and community leader. Before beginning his career as a journalist, Gonzalez was a leading activist in civil rights, labor, anti-war and anti-racism campaigns. A prolific author and essayist known for his hard-hitting investigative pieces, Gonzalez has been called the conscience of New York journalism. Serrano’s tribute comes as part of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the National Puerto Rican Day Parade. ###
06.05.2007	Opening Statement of Chairman José E. Serrano Subcommittee Markup of the FY 2008 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill Today the subcommittee will mark up the fiscal year 2008 bill. I’m pleased to present the first bill for this new subcommittee’s consideration. This is my first time as Chairman and so far it has been an honor and a privilege. This Subcommittee held multiple hearings this spring to explore the issues facing agencies funded through this bill. As the hearings progressed a common theme emerged in my mind for improving these agencies. It became clear that this Subcommittee needed to work to bring government closer to the people, to better fit its services to their needs. The American people expect and deserve the best services their government can offer. For example, with respect to the Internal Revenue Service, we as a Subcommittee addressed the fact that the IRS needs to be fair and even-handed in whom it audits. We also ensured that the IRS works to provide real assistance to the taxpayer who cannot afford the services of an expensive accountant. We want the Election Assistance Commission to help promote the use of voting machines in student and school elections as an educational tool because these are our future voters. We felt that government must do more to protect our consumers and so we have directed the Federal Trade Commission to examine identify theft with an eye toward ending this hurtful crime. We directed the Consumer Product Safety Commission to strengthen its consumer product monitoring capabilities. We have also increased funding for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund to help expand the availability of credit, capital and financial services to underserved communities throughout the nation. I feel that through the funding initiatives and Congressional guidance contained in this bill, government will be more responsive and more proactive on behalf of the American people whom it serves. The subcommittee’s current allocation is $21.028 billion. Under the terms of the budget resolution, that allocation will be increased by $406 million when we report this bill to account for Internal Revenue Service tax enforcement funding. This means that our total budget allocation will be $21.434 billion, which is the amount provided in this mark. This funding level is tight. While the bill is $1.9 billion above the fiscal year 2007 level, it is $243 million below the President’s budget request. It was a challenge to reduce funding from the requested level for two reasons. First, most of this bill – over 80 percent – funds basic administrative accounts, such as the salaries of Treasury employees who are managing the nation’s finances. These accounts cannot be reduced without reducing the most basic government services. Second, there were a number of holes in the President’s budget that needed to be filled. This bill increases funding for programs where we believe money will be well spent and will benefit disadvantaged communities and small businesses. These are important priorities that needed to be increased from the President’s request and that are provided for within our allocation. To summarize, this bill includes $12.3 billion for the Department of the Treasury. Within this amount, $11.1 billion is for the IRS, a $550 million increase above fiscal year 2007 and $52 million above the President’s request. This increase includes more money than requested for taxpayer services and the IRS Taxpayer Advocate’s office. The bill also includes $100 million for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund program to increase economic development and financial opportunities for people living in disadvantaged communities. The bill includes $722 million for the Executive Office of the President, of which $460 million is directed to the Office of National Drug Control Policy and its programs. This includes increases for the Drug-free Communities grants program and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program. This mark rejects the 31 percent increase to the National Youth Anti-drug Media Campaign requested in the President’s budget. Recent studies have called into question the effectiveness of the Campaign, and it does not make any sense to give this program the substantial increase requested in light of these questions. The recommendation reduces funding for the Campaign by $5 million from last year, to $94 million. The Judicial branch is funded at $6.3 billion in this bill, which is $278 million above 2007 but $254 million below the request. While this is a reduction to the requested level, we believe that the amount in the bill will be sufficient to fund all necessary operations and staffing levels for the Judiciary. Programs related to the District of Columbia would receive $668 million, including $329 million for the District of Columbia Court system. Within this figure, the bill assumes an increase in the reimbursement for attorneys who defend indigent clients so that their compensation rate is closer to the rate for defense attorneys practicing before Federal courts. The bill also includes funding for the DC public schools, the Tuition Assistance Grant program, the water and sewer authority, construction of a forensic lab, and other items requested by the DC government. I also want to advise the subcommittee that the mark includes general provisions for DC that are fewer in number and that have been changed based on our discussions with the DC government. My basic principal in this bill is that the Federal government should not dictate to the city how to manage its own affairs or spend its own money. Therefore, you will find that we have removed or changed riders that have been in past bills that closely prescribed to the city what it should or should not do. In some cases, I would actually like to go further than this bill goes, but I consider the changes we made to be first steps toward eliminating some of the restrictions Congress has placed on the District. The recommended bill includes funding for numerous independent agencies. Some, such as the General Services Administration and the Office of Personnel Management, have significant funding and support agencies government-wide in their day-to-day operations. Other agencies are smaller but equally important. For example, the Election Assistance Commission deals with issues that are extraordinarily important to the Nation and its ability to have reliable, secure, and accessible elections. This bill includes $300 million for payments to States to help them meet the requirements of the Help America Vote Act of 2002. The bill also includes funds for important regulatory agencies, namely the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission. We have provided a total of $78 million in increases over 2007 for these agencies, and we are recommending funding to ensure that they have the ability to oversee, investigate, and take necessary actions relating to their respective missions. For example, the Federal Trade Commission would receive $36 million above this year’s level and $7 million above the request to enhance consumer protection activities, including investigations of sub-prime lending and identity theft, and to keep the marketplace free from anticompetitive business practices. Another important agency in this bill is the Small Business Administration. The bill includes $502 million for the SBA, including $100 million for Small Business Development Centers, which is $12 million above the current year. The bill allows $17.5 billion in lending for the 7(a) loan guarantee program, which should be more than adequate to meet loan demand. The bill also includes $17 million for the microloan program, including funds for the subsidy cost of these loans. The Administration proposed to terminate both microloan technical assistance and the loan subsidy, and this bill rejects those proposals. The recommendation also provides funding for SBA programs that target businesses in disadvantaged or low-income communities, such as the HUBZone program and the 7(j) program, which provides assistance relating to accounting practices or bidding on Federal contracts. This bill also includes numerous general provisions that apply to funds in the Act or government-wide. The mark includes some changes in these provisions from previous bills. It includes, for example, some changes to the provision on public-private competition – known to some as A-76 or outsourcing – that will make it a stronger provision with regard to protections for Federal employees. This bill will not make everyone happy, and it does not even do all that I want to do. We’ve had to make many compromises in order to ensure that this bill will make it through the process and to the President’s desk. However, the bill is a good first step toward making some important changes to funding and policies. I encourage everyone to recognize that this bill is part of a process that will take time to complete; we will not be able to do everything in our first year. ###
06.01.2007	***Please note these are separate events*** *** Serrano to Lead Hunts Point Fish Parade WHEN: Saturday – June 2nd, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Parade departs from Hunts Point Riverside Park at Lafayette Avenue and Edgewater Road WHAT: Congressman Serrano will serve as King Fish for the annual Hunts Point Fish Parade—leading the other sea creatures as they swim through the South Bronx. *** Serrano to Host Celebration of the 50th Anniversary of the National Puerto Rican Day Parade WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; other prominent Puerto Ricans and organizers of the 2007 parade WHEN: Monday – June 4th, 2007 at 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Serrano District Office, 788 Southern Boulevard, Bronx, NY 10455 WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will present a special Congressional recognition to the National Puerto Rican Day Parade on the occasion of its 50th anniversary. The National Puerto Rican Day Parade for the past 50 years has celebrated the myriad ways that Puerto Ricans enrich the traditions of this country and addressed issues of economic development, education, cultural recognition, and social advancement. ###
06.01.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano reacted to press accounts that the Bloomberg Administration’s new garbage plan is running into opposition in Albany . Both Serranos warned that the South Bronx cannot continue to serve as a destination for a large portion of Manhattan ’s recyclables, commercial waste, and construction and demolition debris. They also expressed concerns that a delay in the plan’s implementation would continue an untenable and destructive practice of trucking such waste and recyclables through East Harlem en route to transfer stations in the Hunts Point and Port Morris sections of the South Bronx . “The South Bronx already does far more than its share of the waste handling in New York City and unfortunately it has the truck traffic, smells and health problems to show for it,” Congressman Serrano said. “Any new proposals on how to handle the City’s waste should take that fact into account and seek to reduce the South Bronx ’s waste handling, not increase it. “ Albany politicians may not like Bloomberg’s plan, but their substitute ideas should not include the typical ‘push the unpleasant activities in impoverished neighborhoods’ thoughts of past decades of urban planning. Our borough has done enough for the rest of the City in these areas—it’s time for the rest of the City to shoulder its fair share.” "We cannot afford an alternative waste transfer site in already overburdened, poor neighborhoods of Manhattan and the Bronx - neighborhoods that register some of the highest asthma hospitalization rates in the nation," Senator Serrano said. "The Solid Waste Management Plan (SWMP) recognized this fact and addressed it. Now politicians are trying to revert to the past, when underprivileged areas handled all of the City's waste. This is no longer acceptable." "Every day the SWMP is delayed, garbage continues to be trucked through the outer boroughs that have born the burden of Manhattan 's waste for years. It is time that we embraced borough self-sufficiency so everyone in this city can do their part in handling their own trash."
05.25.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he had preserved $49.6 million in federal funding for New York State to replace antiquated voting machines. New York was in danger of losing the funds as the deadline to acquire the machines had passed. “I’m glad I was able to preserve New York’s funding to replace voting machines with up-to-date technology,” Serrano said. “New York did not rush to buy replacement technologies when the funds were first available, which turned out to be the right decision. Many states now regret rushing to purchase unreliable voting technologies. “I felt strongly that New York should not be punished for its cautiousness. New York has created some of the most secure voting machine requirements in the nation, and with these funds intact, they will be able to move forward and purchase new voting machines that are accurate, user-friendly, and trustworthy.” Serrano is the chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the Election Assistance Commission, among other agencies. The Election Assistance Commission was set up in the wake of the contentious 2000 presidential election to disburse funds to replace old voting technologies. ###
05.23.2007	WHEN: Friday – May 23, 2007 at 3:15 p.m. WHERE: Serrano District Office, 788 Southern Boulevard, Bronx, NY 10455 WHO: Congressman José Serrano, 9/11 workers Bill Maher and John Graham. WHAT: Congressman Serrano and clean-up workers who were injured in the aftermath of the attack on the World Trade Center and are featured in Michael Moore’s new film, SiCKO, will be available for questions from the media. The workers traveled with Moore to Cuba for medical treatment, and are now being investigated by the U.S. Treasury Department for their travel. Serrano is chairman of the Appropriation Subcommittee that oversees the Treasury Department’s budget and recently spoke with Moore about the issue. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York , in Congress since 1990
05.10.2007	Today Congressman José E. Serrano spoke with Michael Moore and offered to help the filmmaker in his struggle with the Treasury Department over Moore’s trip to Cuba to film for his forthcoming documentary. The Treasury Department did not issue Moore a license to travel to Cuba, despite the fact that Moore applied as a journalist, a legal category for travel. Now the Treasury Department is pursuing legal actions against Moore. Serrano promptly sent a letter to the Treasury Department urging them to reconsider their ‘case’ against the filmmaker. The letter follows a brief statement from Congressman Serrano. “When I heard the details of Michael Moore’s Cuba travel case, I thought, ‘Here we go again with the bogus Cuba busts,’” Serrano said. “Anti-Castro hardliners have controlled Cuba policy in this Administration, and this witch-hunt is yet another example of them putting their anti-Castro agenda ahead of the rights of all Americans. “I told Michael that I would work on his behalf to try to resolve his issues. I oversee the Treasury Department’s budget, and cannot see how this type of activity is a good use of taxpayer dollars. “It’s long past time to end the embargo and stop harassing Americans who travel to Cuba to see the country for themselves, or in this case to show it as it truly is in documentary form.” The following is the letter Serrano sent to Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson on the issue. *** May 10, 2007 The Honorable Henry M. Paulson, Jr. Secretary Department of the Treasury 15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Paulson: During your recent visit to my Congressional office, we discussed restrictions on travel to Cuba. You mentioned at the time that I should contact you whenever I had questions or concerns about a specific Cuba travel issue. As I am sure you are aware, Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore recently traveled to Cuba to film part of a health documentary that he is currently producing. In accordance with our current travel guidelines, a journalist is permitted to travel to Cuba for his work. This trip was clearly of a journalistic nature as its stated purpose was to gather information crucial to the successful presentation of this documentary. However, on May 2, 2007, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sent a letter to Mr. Moore alerting him to the fact that it was conducting an investigation into his travel to Cuba. In my opinion, this action was taken solely to harass a filmmaker pursuing his journalistic occupation. I am troubled that the Treasury Department is spending its resources pursuing legitimate travel instead of devoting itself to fighting terrorism – which is the real threat. I know that we disagree on the question of travel to Cuba, however, I think that we can both agree that launching an investigation of a legitimate journalist is an abuse of our current travel guidelines. I strongly believe that all Americans have the constitutional right to travel freely, even to Cuba. I look forward to hearing from you about this specific case. I am sure that as Treasury Secretary you have more important items on your agenda than devoting the limited resources and personnel of OFAC to this ridiculous and frivolous investigation of Michael Moore. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which oversees the budget of the Treasury Department, and multiple other agencies.
05.09.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff strenuously objecting to the release of convicted terrorist Luis Posada Carriles last night. ***May 9, 2007 The Honorable Michael ChertoffSecretary of Homeland Security Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Mr. Secretary: After learning that Mr. Luis Posada Carriles, a known terrorist, was released from custody and allowed to reside in the as a free man, I have become very concerned about our ability to protect our nation. Prior to the horrific attacks of September 11th, 2001, the attack on Cubana Airlines Flight 455 was the worst terrorist attack on a plane in the Western Hemisphere. On Oct. 6, 1976 the plane was blown in half off the coast of Barbados , leaving 73 innocent people dead, including a number of students. Carriles, the terrorist responsible for this dastardly act, was quickly arrested and charged for the crime but managed to escape from a Venezuelan prison and continue his campaign of terror on innocent and unsuspecting people throughout the region. After catching this terrorist as he tried to cross our borders in 2005, not only have we ignored the request of the Venezuelan government for him to be extradited to stand trial for his actions, but we have chosen not to charge him with terrorism, in accordance with international law. Although the Department of Justice described Carriles as “an unrepentant criminal and admitted mastermind of terrorist plots'' he was only charged with lying to immigration officials and now is allowed to walk the streets of our country freely. This sets a terrible precedent in the war on terrorism and the fight to protect our homeland. With the release of this terrorist, we have sent the dangerous message that political pressure from a group can deter the U.S. from taking action against the worst type of person—one who commits crimes against innocent civilians. In addition, it further weakens our moral standing in the world as we will undoubtedly be seen as being biased in our ongoing war on terrorism. While this administration certainly has a strained relationship with both Cuba and Venezuela, such an issue should never interfere with our commitment to fight terrorism wherever it exists. I wanted to bring this matter of importance to your personal attention because it impacts both our respect for our immigration laws and our commitment to fight terrorism. Sincerely, José E. SerranoMember of Congress ###
05.04.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on Cinco De Mayo, which is celebrated tomorrow. “Cinco De Mayo marks a day of pride and celebration for people of Mexican heritage,” Serrano said. “We now rightly celebrate this day in the to honor the contributions and cultural heritage of Mexican-Americans and indeed all Hispanics. We recognize that the would not be what it is today had we not had the contributions of this important community.” Serrano also took the opportunity to repeat his support for comprehensive immigration reform in Congress. He promised to continue to push his bill H.R. 1176, the “Child Citizen Protection Act,” which would restore immigration judges’ ability to take into account the needs of citizen children when making rulings on deportations of parents. “I believe in comprehensive reform,” Serrano said. “But I believe that the first priority in any reform should be families. Our current system allows families to be split apart by deportations. Our nation and government should not be in the business of splitting families up. My bill would allow judges to make decisions that take the well-being of child citizens into account when deporting parents. “Comprehensive immigration reform with this important provision would do justice to our nation’s legacy of tolerance and also the legacy of the many immigrants that have built it. Many of our Mexican neighbors over the years have chosen to reestablish themselves and their families in the . They—and many other immigrant groups—have made such valuable contributions to our nation. We must honor them by treating current immigrants fairly and with compassion.” ###
05.03.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman José E. Serrano applauded the approval of H.R. 1429, the Improving Head Start Act of 2007, which passed the House late yesterday. “Head Start has been a vital program to enhance the education of children in the Bronx and across the nation,” Congressman Serrano said. “The passage of the Improving Head Start Act yesterday was a very important step to help improve and strengthen this great program. “The bill will expand the opportunities available to Latino and African-American children, which is important to me and to my district. We must start all children on the path to lifelong learning, and it is especially important to make sure that disadvantaged children are receiving full access to these services. “I strongly believe in Head Start not only for its educational services, but because it also helps to strengthen the families involved by providing health, nutritional, social and other services to both the children and their families. “Passing this important bill was a major accomplishment for this Congress. By investing in our children, we are investing in our nation’s future.” The Improving Head Start Act of 2007 will provide 10,000 more children with access to Head Start services and increased funding for teacher and staff salaries and professional development. It will make critical improvements to Head Start programs to ensure children are ready for school, improve coordination between Head Start and state and local child care health and family services programs, increase full-day and full-year services, and improve accountability by devising a new system to review Head Start centers. ###
05.01.2007	Washington, DC – May 1, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano again called for the Iraq War to end as the ‘surge’ clearly has failed and American troops continue to suffer the consequences of Bush Administration blunders. “As we read today that April was the deadliest month for American troops and Iraqi civilians this year, we must ask whether the Bush Administration will wake up to the reality that there is no military solution in Iraq,” Serrano said. “They promised that the ‘surge’ or as we called it, ‘escalation,’ would begin to quell violence in . The opposite seems to be the case; a result that is now standard for this Administration. In the midst of this strategic failure, President Bush will arrogantly veto legislation which would set deadlines for troop withdrawals. Bush must listen to Congress and the American people—all of whom seem to see the situation more clearly than he. He must accept the failure of his policies in , and begin the withdrawal of our brave troops. “I am particularly upset with the way that Bush and the Republican Party talk about this war. They casually blend the Iraq War with the War on Terror and constantly advise us that we must defeat the terrorists in , lest they come after us at home. “First of all, was a separate issue from terrorism until Bush invaded. Has he forgotten that his primary justification for the invasion was the non-existent Weapons of Mass Destruction? “Secondly, in our fight against terrorism, we are in a battle against an ideology and a tactic. Military solutions alone are inadequate to the task of stopping a crazed individual from blowing himself up and taking innocent people with him. Stopping him requires a much more comprehensive plan than the Administration seems to have. “Lastly, I question the assertion that if we do not ‘win’ in , we will be fighting terrorists in . I see no evidence that in the short term the Iraqi insurgents want anything other than an end to our occupation of their country. The only idea that seems to unite the Iraqis these days is their strong distaste, if not hatred, of the , the occupying power.” “From the beginning of this conflict we have had shifting explanations, half-truths, and fear-mongering from this Administration. Now it seems we have to add willful blindness to reality to that list. “Bush and the Republicans must come clean with the American people and end the rhetorical shenanigans. They also must stop resisting an end to this horribly misguided war. Our brave troops, the American people and indeed the world deserve no less.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990, and has consistently opposed the War including voting against the initial resolution. Serrano is a co-sponsor of H.R. 413, H.R. 455 and H.R. 508, which all call for withdrawal from .
04.23.2007	Washington, DC – April 23, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano mourned the passing of Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald yesterday and issued the following statement. “Juanita Millender-McDonald was a great leader and a good friend. We will miss her here in Congress, both for her passion on the issues and her friendship. We were so proud when she became the first black woman to lead a House committee, and were looking forward to her leadership. She was a tireless advocate for her district and for voting rights. Our hope is that her work will be taken up by others inspired by her leadership. “I send my condolences to the family as well as the assurance that our friend and colleague will be missed by her Washington ‘family.’” ###
04.23.2007	Washington, DC – April 23, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano decried Republican maneuvering on the supplemental, a consensus version of which passed conference committee today. Serrano was pleased to announce that he had ensured the continued availability of federal funds given to New York to replace its voting machines. New York was slated to lose these funds as the deadline for their use had passed. “I have opposed this war in since its inception,” Serrano said. “The current political realities are such that this bill is the only way to make the President state clearly his choice: to continue on his reckless and endless present course or accept the enormity of his error and begin to end our involvement in . The American people want the war to end, the Iraqi people want the war to end, and now the Congress has officially told him in no uncertain terms that we want the war to end. He must wake up and work with us to begin bringing the troops home.” “I was pleased to secure New York ’s $49.6 million which is to help the state pay for replacing its antiquated voting systems with new, state-of-the-art machines that are safe and accurate. New York has created some of the most secure voting technology guidelines in the nation, and did the right thing in waiting to spend this funding in a manner that will best help all New Yorkers to have confidence that their votes are being correctly counted. Their skepticism about rushing to buy new machines proved right, as we are now seeing that the paperless computerized machines some states purchased in the wake of HAVA are not 100 percent reliable. I am confident that New York State will soon have voting technologies that all New Yorkers can use without any fear or mistrust." “Local issues aside, it is long past time for this President to wake up and face reality on . This bill sends the signal that a compliant Congress, which will not challenge him simply no longer exists. Veto threats, name-calling, and unwillingness to compromise will not change the fact that the American people want our troops out of because they understand that military might will not win this war. The war must end, and the brave troops must come home." ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
04.17.2007	WHO: Congressman Jose E. Serrano via videoconference; Bronx Community College’s Center for Sustainable Energy, New York City Department of Transportation, New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, Smith Electric Vehicles, and major fleet operators in the South Bronx. WHEN: Wednesday, April 18, 2007, 11 a.m. WHERE: Bronx Office of Congressman José Serrano, 788 Southern Avenue, Bronx, NY . WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will host a briefing on new technologies now available to fleet operators in the 16th Congressional District and new grant opportunities and other incentives for fleet conversions, including the upcoming New York City Private Fleet Alternative-Fuel/Electric Vehicle Program. New clean fuel and electric vehicle technologies have begun to transform the marketplace for light and heavy duty trucks. This briefing will help fleet managers, small businesspeople, and institutions better understand the new alternatives available to them and the opportunities in place to defray the cost of new vehicle acquisition. The briefing will also feature a presentation by Smith Electric Vehicles, makers of heavy duty all-electric trucks. ###
04.16.2007	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Request of the Federal Communications Commission, Tuesday, April 17, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witness: Kevin J. Martin Chairman Federal Communications Commission ###
04.16.2007	Washington, DC – April 16, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano extended his deepest condolences to the families and friends of those who have lost loved ones in today’s Virginia Tech tragedy. “Today’s events at Virginia Tech are so tragic; they affect us all. My heart goes out to the families of the victims in this moment of heartbreak and pain. I feel particularly close to this tragedy, as one of my children attended and graduated from Virginia Tech. I hope that it gives the families some small measure of relief to know that the entire nation will have them in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
04.15.2007	Washington, DC – April 15, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano condemned the training video used by the German Army reported in the media recently – which showed the soldiers using black men from the Bronx as a incitement to violence. Serrano sent the following letter to the German Ambassador registering his strong disapproval of the training tactic and asking for an apology to the people of the Bronx . *** April 15, 2007 The Honorable Klaus Scharioth Ambassador of Germany Embassy of Germany 4645 Reservoir Road NW Washington, DC, 20007-1998 Dear Mr. Ambassador: I write to you to express my deep concerns about the training video recently reported upon by the American media in which a German Army trainer instructs soldiers to picture themselves in the Bronx , beset by black males, and to “act.” Their actions consist of firing upon the black males while cursing at them. As an elected official representing the Bronx , I must convey to you that both I and the good people I represent feel deeply insulted by the tone, content, and implications of this video. What purpose would the German Army have in training its soldiers to shoot African-Americans? Why would the trainees need to imagine themselves in the Bronx ? I cannot think of reasonable responses to these questions and so am left with the unpleasant impression that this training demonstrates a particularly denigrating and seemingly racist attitude that may in fact be prevalent among some elements of the German Defense forces. I believe that the people of the Bronx are owed an apology for this situation. They are proud, hard-working, law-abiding people and do not deserve to be stereotyped in such a hurtful and offensive way. I ask that any use of these stereotypes in training cease immediately as well. American soldiers – many of whom are of color and many of whom are proud to be from the Bronx – serve alongside German soldiers under NATO command. Continued use of such training tactics will certainly not lead to mutual trust and respect among those soldiers serving together. I would like to extend to you an invitation to tour the Bronx with me. I believe that you will find that the vitality, tenacity and ambition displayed by the people of the Bronx will help to dispel any remaining myths about our borough. I also invite German tourists to come to the Bronx while in New York City . In our borough you will find such cultural treasures as Yankee Stadium, the Arthur Avenue retail market, the Bronx Zoo and New York Botanical Gardens, not to mention a wealth of cultures, languages, foods and faith traditions. Our tolerance for diversity is our greatest strength. It is a community with much to offer. I am sure that they will find that the crude and cruel stereotypes that this unfortunate situation plays upon are wholly untrue. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
04.11.2007	Washington, DC – April 11, 2007 – Today, Congressmen Maurice Hinchey (NY-22) and José E. Serrano (NY-16) urged the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) to act with greater transparency and without partisanship. The comments from the congressmen came as the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government released a draft version of an EAC report on voter fraud and intimidation that shows significant changes were made to the findings of outside experts before the final report was released. “The EAC has an obligation to be forthright with the American people and operate transparently and in a non-partisan manner,” said Congressman Hinchey, who requested the draft report from EAC Commissioner Donetta L. Davidson during a subcommittee hearing last month. “The draft report was commissioned with taxpayer dollars upon a mandate from Congress so that we could learn more about voter fraud and intimidation. The need for this report is even more clear when we see the way in which the Bush administration is carrying out the electoral process and how this system is sliding towards corruption In hiding a draft report from the public that is significantly different from the final version, the EAC has created a lot more questions than it is has answered while stunting debate on the issue. In order for our democracy to function properly it is essential that our elections are free of any corruption and that includes ensuring that the EAC does not work to benefit one political party over the other. To achieve that goal we must have all the facts and opinions on the table, not just some of them. The EAC must never limit discussion and debate.” “The EAC is charged with helping to ensure our elections are trustworthy and administered fairly,” said Congressman Serrano, who is Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the EAC budget. “I’m concerned if changes were made to the report on voter fraud because of partisan bias rather than impartial analysis. When you read the draft report side-by-side with the final version, it is clear that important conclusions of the experts who wrote the draft report were excluded from the final product. Among the excluded information is an analysis that undermines the notion that voter fraud is rampant. “I am concerned that the EAC did not publicly release the taxpayer-funded draft report, and I worry that political considerations may have played a role. We cannot have a politicized EAC, or one that yields to outside pressure. Our democracy, and the American people’s faith in it, is far more important than any short-term political advantage.” The draft report was written by outside experts under contract with the EAC. The final report was entitled “Election Crimes: An Initial Review and Recommendations for Future Study” and was issued on December 7, 2006. The EAC is an independent bipartisan commission created by the 2002 Help America Vote Act in order to disburse funds to the states for the purchase of new voting systems, certify voting technologies, develop guidelines and serve as an information resource for election administration. ###
03.29.2007	***Please note these are separate events*** *** Serrano to Attend Ribbon-Cutting at H.O.G.A.R. WHEN: Friday – March 30, 2007 at 12:00 p.m. WHERE: 920 Prospect Avenue, Bronx, New York WHAT: Congressman Serrano will be on hand for the H.O.G.A.R. 11th Year Anniversary Inaugural Opening & Ribbon Cutting Ceremony. The ribbon-cutting will mark the official opening of H.O.G.A.R.’s new Senior Case Assistance Program and Clubhouse. *** Serrano to Present Flag to Joy Cousminer, President, Bethex Credit Union WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Joy Cousminer, President, Bethex Credit Union WHEN: Friday – March 30th, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 20 East 179th Street, Lower Level, Bronx, NY WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will present an American flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol to Joy Cousminer, President of Bethex Credit Union, in recognition of her extraordinary service to the people of the Bronx . Under her guidance, Bethex has helped thousands of Bronxites to gain access to the mainstream banking system. ###
03.29.2007	WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; Alfredo Thiebaud of Delicioso Coco Helado; Coquito vendors and their families; and schoolchildren. WHEN: Saturday, March 31, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Delicioso Coco Helado, 849 St. Ann’s Avenue, Bronx, New York 10455 (south of 161st Street ) )WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will kick off the 2007 coquito season by serving up the ceremonial first scoop to a schoolchild at the home of Delicioso Coco Helado. Coquitos are a tropical frozen treat sold by pushcart vendors throughout New York. ###
03.28.2007	Washington, DC – March 29, 2007 – Yesterday, at a hearing on the budget request of the Treasury Department for the coming fiscal year, Congressman José E. Serrano asked Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to analyze the state of the economy including what he felt was going wrong and deserved special attention. Secretary Paulson cited the income gap as an issue of concern. Secretary Paulson listed a long series of indicators that he felt showed that the economy was strong and could continue in a pattern of “sustainable” growth. He felt that the problems in the sub-prime lending sector were contained and would not spread to other sectors. Secretary Paulson’s concern, which he “spends time thinking about,” is the growing income gap between the richest and the poorest in the nation. He believes that this is largely attributable to technology and people’s ability or inability to leverage it to their benefit. His proposed solution was an increase in education and training. “I applaud Secretary Paulson for admitting that the income gap is a problem, and agree with his belief that education and training are of vital importance in closing it,” Congressman Serrano said after the hearing. “But I believe that there is another step that must be taken: We must do away with the inequities in the tax system, especially the tilt in favor of the wealthiest Americans. “This problem is very real. We all agree that it is a fact that people at the top are earning more and more while those at the bottom are seeing little wage increase. Action must be taken swiftly or our nation’s income disparities will continue to increase and we will be forced to take more painful measures in the future. “We must admit that both the income gap and the federal budget deficit have grown larger as a result of the fixation on tax cuts that has been the cornerstone of Republican economic policies over the past six years. I must urge Secretary Paulson to go one step further in his proposed solution to the income gap and support measures to ensure that our nation’s wealthiest citizens pay their fair share of taxes.” ###
03.23.2007	Washington, DC – March 23, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano voted to end the Iraq War through limitations included in the supplemental funding bill. “There are some of us in Congress who want this war to end tomorrow morning. I am one of those Members,” Serrano said. “But even with that desire, I understand that giving the order to withdraw from immediately means it will be six, seven, or eight months before all the troops are home. The limits in this bill which demand a full withdrawal by next summer are not that much further off than if we were able to give the order for immediate withdrawal.” “I’ve been in public office for 33 years; half in the State Assembly and half in Congress. The decision on how to vote for this bill is probably the hardest decision I’ve made in those 33 years. “I voted against this war in the beginning and I was one of the three who voted yes, when the other side – in a shameful way – put up the Murtha redeployment proposition as a ‘get out today’ proposal. I was one of the three who voted to ‘get out today.’ I stand by that vote as my true preference for ending this war. “But I’ve come to the conclusion that the Democratic Leadership has put together the best possible bill to deal with this issue given the political realities in the House. “Some of my friends on the left will tell me that I’ve sold out. The right will say I do not support the troops. I know no better way to support the troops than to pull them out as soon as we possibly can. “If another bill comes along that proposes a quicker withdrawal—I will surely vote in favor of that. But this bill is what we have to decide on today. “I want this war to end. I don’t want to go to any more funerals. And so I will take whatever heat is given to me and vote today to get out of as soon as this bill proposes.” ###
03.22.2007	Washington, DC – March 22, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano praised on the announcement by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (C.M.S.) that they would soon issue a new interim rule that clarifies that babies born in the U.S. automatically have a right to one year of Medicaid coverage. Under current policy, extensive documentation must be completed for the baby—which is a citizen by virtue of its birth in a U.S. hospital—to prove its citizenship before it can receive the Medicaid benefits to which the infant is automatically entitled. Serrano was in the process of securing support for his bill, H.R. 210, which would have eliminated this process. “I am very happy to learn that Medicaid is looking at fixing the problem that my bill was seeking to address,” Serrano said. “I think that it is only fair that all children born in the United States be treated equally.” As a result of provisions included in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Medicaid issued a interim final rule in July of last year which stated that infants born to women on emergency Medicaid were no longer automatically eligible for coverage and that in order to receive coverage they were required to submit an application and provide documentation proving citizenship. The risk of that rule is that infants born to undocumented parents might not receive their benefits because their parents are fearful to complete the documentation on their behalf. “The Fourteenth Amendment to our constitution states that a person born in the United States is automatically a citizen. It is only logical that our rules and laws should reflect that fact. I applaud Medicaid’s administration for reconsidering their earlier interpretation and urge them to rule in favor of equality and fairness.” “During the comment period on this new rule, I intend to submit comments along with fellow Members of Congress strongly urging Medicaid to make permanent the rule which will immediately ensure benefits for our neediest and most fragile American citizens. “The current system leaves far too many American citizens without their guaranteed benefits. It was just this situation that I was hoping to address with my bill. In a strange twist, I’m glad to learn that my bill will become unnecessary. ” ###
03.21.2007	Washington, DC – March 21, 2007 – During a hearing today on the budget of the Federal Judiciary, Congressman José E. Serrano asked the panel for their thoughts on the current deportation system, which provides judges no discretion with respect to splitting up families that often include children who are citizens. Serrano has a bill, H.R. 213 the Child Citizen Protection Act of 2007, which would free the hands of immigration and federal judges to consider the welfare of children during deportation proceedings and rulings. Judge Julia Gibbons, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit, and Chair of the Budget Committee of the Judicial Conference of the responded to the question. “While I know you cannot endorse my bill, I would ask you what you believe judges face and feel when they encounter this situation—having to break up a family through deportation despite the fact that a child is a citizen,” Serrano asked Judge Gibbons. “My bill would free the hands of these judges to look at the whole situation, rather than only enforce the law without regard to the very real and often devastating consequences.” Judge Gibbons replied that she could not endorse any legislation, but that when judges face this situation, they must force families to choose between leaving a child citizen behind or take them to a country where often the child will have far fewer opportunities. She said judges face this situation “frequently” and that it is “sad.” She also added that this is a tough issue for anyone “who cares about families.” “I was interested to learn that judges, who find their hands tied with regard to this issue in many instances, would prefer to be able to weigh all the factors supporting a deportation,” Serrano added. “I trust judges to make the correct decision and my bill would enable them to do so.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Services of the House Appropriations Committee. He has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990.
03.16.2007	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Request of the Office of Management and Budget, Monday, March 19, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building . Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the subcommittee. Witness: Rob PortmanDirectorOffice of Management and Budget ###
03.15.2007	Washington, DC – March 15, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on President Bush’s recently-concluded trip to Latin America. “While no one could have had lower hopes for President Bush’s trip to Latin America, I was surprised at the political tone-deafness and sheer irrelevance that he displayed,” Serrano said. “He spent much of his trip talking up his plan to help the region with development aid and other poverty reduction packages – but the amounts were miniscule in comparison with the need. This ‘new’ policy idea only proves that the free-trade prescription of the last decade has done nothing to economically enhance the life of the average person in Latin America. Unfortunately, Bush’s help was too little and far too late. “I have always said that if a leader of a Latin American country is democratically-elected, our nation must engage that leader regardless of political leanings. Latin American countries have spent years listening to the United States haranguing them about the need for democracy before we would help them. Now they have democratically-elected presidents, and the Bush Administration has moved the goalposts: you now must be democratically-elected, AND right-wing, and pro-trade for the Bush team to want to work with you. This is a shameful development in our international policy. If electoral democracy is our mantra, we must respect the outcome of elections and work respectfully with the victor regardless of who wins. We must reach out and find common ground, not focus on unimportant differences. “Along with others in the U.S., I found it petty that the President would not use Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez’ name when asked about him throughout the region. Bush’s visit to the region, and his agenda there, were forced upon him by the rise in popularity of Chavez – who understands that the way to the hearts of Latin American people is through development and dialogue, not unfair trade pacts and military aid. It’s safe to say that Chavez gets it, and Bush does not. “I was glad to hear that leaders in Latin America told Bush that the only effective way to fix the immigration issue in the United States is to help the nations south of the border to develop—so people are able to stay in their home countries and lead decent lives. I guarantee that the majority of migrants, if it were feasible, would prefer to stay in their hometowns and cultures, amongst their families and friends. Addressing the conditions that lead to migration in those nations, rather than building pointless fences, is the most humane and just policy we could pursue to solve the immigration issue. “Had Bush understood these truths and pursued these goals since the day he took office, he would have certainly had a different reception in Latin America. Rather than street protests and a shadow tour led by an ‘opposing’ president, he would have received a hero’s welcome as one of the few American Presidents in our history who understands Latin America and responded to its needs. Sadly, we can expect more of the same from President Bush on Latin America for the rest of his term—because he just doesn’t get it.” ###
03.14.2007	Washington, DC – March 14, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced he had received word that the Postal Service will undertake an investigation into the possible consolidation of the Bronx mail processing operations into Manhattan facilities. “This is a vital first step toward addressing the concerns the community and I have about this possible consolidation,” Serrano said. “We need the facts about the Postal Service’s proposed plan so that we can prepare next steps. I appreciate the Postmaster General taking my concerns seriously, and ordering this investigation. I believe that their plan to close the facilities in the Bronx is ill-conceived and bad for the community. I will continue to take whatever actions possible to bring openness and transparency to the decision-making process, and ultimately help the Postal Service to see that this is a bad move.” Congressman Serrano requested the investigation at a private meeting with the Postmaster General John Potter late last month. Serrano is chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the Postal Service’s budget. Potter sent a letter to Serrano last week confirming his intention to order the investigation, which will be conducted by the Postal Service’s Office of the Inspector General. Congressman Serrano has been against the proposed consolidation since its inception, citing as his top concerns potential borough job losses due to transfers, the harmful environmental impact of increased truck traffic, and the potential for slower service to the borough. Moreover, the Postal Service often cites lower mail volumes for Bronx residents—but Serrano believes that with the borough’s growth, that claim could be misguided. “This is a top issue for me,” Serrano said. “I intend to follow the investigation very closely and will eagerly await the results. I believe that our concerns will be vindicated.” ###
03.13.2007	Washington, DC – March 13, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that he had been able to secure authorization for Mamadou Soumare to go to to bury his family and return to the afterwards. Immigration officials will process Mr. Soumare tomorrow for “advance parole,” which allows foreign nationals who do not have citizenship, to travel abroad for up to 30 days and re-enter the USA. “I am pleased that I was able to help Mr. Soumare move through this process so quickly and that my petition on his behalf was accepted,” said Serrano. “After the tragic and traumatic events of the past few days, allowing him to bury his wife and children in Mali is the humane and just thing to do. At the same time, Mr. Soumare must be allowed to return to the USA , which is his adopted home. Advance parole will allow him to accomplish both goals." Mr. Soumare lost his wife and four children in Friday’s house fire in the Highbridge neighborhood of the Bronx . After his return from Mali , he will also be able to apply for an adjustment of status. ###
03.10.2007	The Bronx, NY – March 10, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his deep sadness at the horrific loss of life in the tragic Highbridge house fire this week and offered to help the families in any way possible. “When I heard about this tragedy, my heart sank, and my thoughts immediately went to the pain of the families and loved ones who suffered these tragic losses," Serrano said. "The loss of a child is a nightmare that any parent can only barely imagine. “I visited the scene of the fire today, and offered to help expedite visas for extended family members to travel to and from West Africa . If any other matter comes up that I can help with, I will treat it as a first priority. After such a catastrophe, people should not have to struggle in any way with government officials for needed services. “In every generation and among every group that has come to our shores, New York has at once been a place of enormous opportunity and unimaginable sorrow for immigrants. That sorrow has once again come to an immigrant community in my district. “A disaster like this affects not just that immigrant community but the whole of the Bronx . Our thoughts and prayers will be with the families and their loved ones as they grieve.” ###
03.09.2007	Washington, DC – March 9, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano reacted swiftly this week to the recent reports of improper and substandard care at military and VA hospitals. Serrano instructed his staff to expand outreach to the veteran service organizations and staff at the James J. Peters VA Medical Center in the Bronx to ensure that proper care is being given to patients there. “I have always been committed to the best care possible for returning soldiers and veterans,” Serrano said. “I believe that our government and society have a responsibility to make sure that these brave peoples’ medical needs are satisfied both during service and after it ends. The recent reports in the press have made me both sad and angry—and more determined than ever to ensure that veterans receive the care they deserve.” Below is a letter Serrano sent to the director of the James J. Peters VA Medical Center requesting a meeting to further identify problems and potential solutions at the Center. “I plan to stay fully engaged on this issue,” Serrano added. “We must solve any problems related to our service personnel and veterans’ medical care. Our nation owes them no less than the best care possible after their sacrifices.” *** MaryAnn Musumeci Director James J. Peters VA Medical Center 130 West Kingsbridge RoadBronx, NY 10468 Dear Ms. Musumeci: I am writing to register my deep concern about deteriorating conditions at the James J. Peters VA Medical Center, based on reporting in major newspapers and firsthand accounts received by the constituent service staff of my district office. While there are clearly systemic problems that continue to plague the administration of quality health care for veterans nationwide, I believe that increased dialogue with veteran’s service organizations and a renewed emphasis on patient-centered care and services at your facility are essential to addressing these concerns locally. I am requesting a meeting for my senior staff to explore with you and your colleagues how together we can address the concerns that have been raised and how we can help facilitate a regular conversation between your staff and veterans service organizations active in our district. My district scheduler, Clara Wagner-Anderson, will contact your office to set up a meeting for my Chief of Staff and my Veteran’s Affairs Specialist. Thank you for your service and your consideration of my request. Sincerely yours, José E. Serrano Member of Congress ###
03.09.2007	CONTACT: Philip Schmidt, (Serrano) (202) 225-4361 Rohit Mahajan, ( Crowley) (202) 225-3965 Washington, DC, March 9, 2007 – Today, Congressmen José E. Serrano (NY-16) and Joseph Crowley (NY-07) announced that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) had awarded a $35,000 grant to Rocking the Boat, an innovative environmental education organization, based in the South Bronx. “Rocking the Boat is a great program for many reasons, but foremost among them is its success in achieving its mission of education and hands-on environmental restoration work,” Serrano said. “Education and conservation are two causes that have long been close to my heart. I recently honored the youth leaders of this organization for their work in my district office. I’m happy that a short time later I am able to announce federal support for their organization--support that I played a role in securing for this great group. I commend them for their work and look forward to hearing about more success in the future.” “Without Rocking the Boat, the idea of city kids getting the opportunity to build boats and work with their peers to help restore our rivers would not be possible,” Crowley said. “This great program provides Bronx students the wonderful opportunity of a lifetime to learn about environment and enjoy the outdoors in a completely unique and important way.” Serrano and Crowley have been long-time supporters of the youth program and its mission of education and support for environmental restoration. In 2001, Serrano helped a local group secure a 30,000 square foot site on the Bronx River that now houses Rocking the Boat's environmental training and on-water components. With this new funding from EPA, Rocking the Boat will initiate two programs for New York City High School students focusing on the Bronx River and East Rivers . The grant to Rocking the Boat was the largest awarded by the EPA this year in New York as part of its “environmental education” grants program. ###
03.06.2007	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Ensuring the Integrity of Elections tomorrow, Wednesday, March 7, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building . Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the newly-created subcommittee. Witnesses: The Honorable Donetta L. Davidson Chair Election Assistance Commission Ray Martinez III Former Commissioner Election Assistance Commission Randolph C. HiteDirector Information Technology Architecture and Systems, Government Accountability Office Aviel D. Rubin, Ph.D.Director A Center for Correct, Usable, Reliable, Auditable, and Transparent Elections (ACCURATE) ###
03.02.2007	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Tax Fairness: Policy and Enforcement on Monday, March 5, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. in 2128 Rayburn House Office Building . Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the newly-created subcommittee. Panel 1: Kathy Petronchak Commissioner of the Small Business/Self-Employed Division Internal Revenue Service Nina Olson National Taxpayer Advocate Internal Revenue Service Panel 2: Robert S. McIntyre Director Citizens for Tax Justice Leonard E. Burman Director Tax Policy Center Alan D. Viard Resident Scholar American Enterprise Institute ###
03.01.2007	Washington, DC – March 1, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-Bronx), in his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, held a hearing on Financial Services for Disadvantaged Communities. Serrano called the hearing to learn what more can be done to enable disadvantaged communities to access traditional and safe forms of banking and lending. Witnesses included JoAnn Johnson, Chairman of the Board of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA); Kimberly Reed, Director of the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund at the Department of the Treasury; and Joy Cousminer, President and CEO of Bethex Federal Credit Union, Bronx, NY. “Our nation’s most underprivileged need the government and the institutions that it oversees to look out for them, to help steer them away from risky products and from being taken advantage of. Nowhere is this more true than in financial services,” Serrano said. “The disadvantaged are working hard enough for what little they have; they should not risk losing more through deceptive financial schemes and loans with usurious rates. Our banking system must be pushed to provide the same low-cost services and products to low-income consumers that are available to consumers in more privileged markets.” The Subcommittee asked CDFI Fund Director Reed to explain why the Administration had cut the budget for this vital fund over the past several years—especially when its results are proven to be beneficial. Director Reed replied that the funding request for FY2008 is actually more than $20 million higher than in FY2007. This request, however, is still far lower than the all-time appropriation high for this program of $118 million that it received in FY2001 and also down from its appropriated level of $54.5 million in both FY2006 and FY2007. “I have grappled with the lack of banking services in my Congressional District for years, and so have a firsthand knowledge of what these credit unions and the CDFI’s are capable of in an underprivileged area. Ms. Cousminer’s testimony about her experiences in my Congressional District are proof positive that there is a solution to the unbanked, and it runs in part through credit unions and the support of the CDFI Fund. Congress has an obligation to support the efforts of these entities as much as possible.” ###
02.28.2007	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Financial Services for Disadvantaged Communities tomorrow, Thursday, March 1, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the newly-created subcommittee. Panel 1 JoAnn M. Johson Chairman of the Board National Credit Union Administration Kimberly A. Reed Director Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund, U.S. Department of the Treasury Panel 2 Joy Cousminer President and CEO Bethex Federal Credit Union, Bronx, NY ###
02.27.2007	HEARING NOTICE The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government will hold a hearing on Consumer Issues tomorrow, Wednesday, February 28, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. in 2220 Rayburn House Office Building. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) chairs the newly-created subcommittee. Panel 1 Deborah Platt MajorasChairman of the Federal Trade Commission Nancy Nord Acting Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission Panel 2 Janell Mayo Duncan Senior Counsel Consumers Union Rachel WeintraubDirector of Product Safety, Senior Counsel Consumer Federation of America Ari Schwartz Deputy Director Center for Democracy and Technology ###
02.23.2007	Washington, DC, February 23, 2007 — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano hosted a ceremony in celebration of Black History Month. At the ceremony they honored local leaders Sister Alicia Florence Allick-Goudie, East Harlem civic leader; David Gibson, Director, Samaritan Village - Highbridge Branch; Anthony Jordan, Director, St. Benedict the Moor; and Desiree Pilgrim-Hunter, Northwest Bronx civic leader. Each honoree was presented with a State Senate proclamation and a statement which will be placed in the U.S. Congressional Record. “We spend February thinking about and celebrating the achievements and contributions of African Americans,” Congressman Serrano said. “I can think of no better way to celebrate the month than to recognize the leaders in our local African American communities. Just as America is indebted to all African Americans for their contributions, so too our communities are indebted to these local leaders for their work. We recognize Sister Allick-Goudie, Mr. Gibson, Mr. Jordan and Ms. Pilgrim-Hunter because they are shining examples of dedication to service and for their impressive efforts toward building a better community. I am happy to be able to bring recognition to them for their good work. “These remarkable people are the bedrock of their communities,” said Senator Serrano. “They honor the legacy of those who came before, while at the same time developing new and innovative ways to ensure an even brighter future for our children. These are difficult times – both around the world, and right here at home – and we are so blessed to have civic and community leaders brave enough to meet the challenges head on, and inspire their communities to overcome.” Congressman Serrano added: “I feel that all Americans have so much to learn from the lessons taught by the greatest black leaders in our history. Their messages of tolerance, peace, equality and brotherhood appeal to our common sense of good and incite us to do right by our brothers and sisters. I find great strength in the guidance provided by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in these times of trouble. I know that many others do too. “It is important, however, not to focus only on the civil rights triumphs of the black community. We must also recognize and remember their contributions in literature, science, drama, arts, music, dance, and jurisprudence.” ###
02.23.2007	Serranos to Celebrate Dominican Heritage Month 2007, Honor Local Dominican leaders WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano; NY State Senator José M. Serrano; Dr. Hugo Morales, civic leader and CUNY Trustee; and Dr. Rafael Lantigua, civic leader and elder care physician. WHEN: Monday - February 26rd, 2007 at 1:30 p.m. WHERE: 788 Southern Boulevard, Bronx, New York WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano will celebrate Dominican Heritage Month 2007, and honor local residents for their service to the Bronx and East Harlem. *** Serrano to Honor Rocking the Boat for Leadership WHO: Congressman José E. Serrano, Rocking the Boat youth leaders WHEN: Monday - February 26rd, 2007 at 4:30 p.m. WHERE: 788 Southern Boulevard, Bronx, New York WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will honor the youth leaders of Rocking the Boat, a boatbuilding and on-water education program based out of the southwest Bronx. These youth leaders will be recognized for their effort and dedication to restoring and sharing the natural beauty of the Bronx River. ###
02.22.2007	The Bronx, NY – February 22, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano strongly condemned Schools Chancellor Joel Klein’s plan to discontinue Project ARTS in New York City schools. The vital program has brought much-needed arts education funding to the schools since its inception in 1996. “I’m outraged at the idea of erasing Project ARTS from the schools. This is one of the few ways arts programs are provided to all children in New York City.” Congressman Serrano said. “Everyone knows that in today’s testing-focused environment, arts programs will be the first on the chopping block if test scores dip. That’s unacceptable. Arts programs promote soundly educated children as much as any math or science program. I strongly urge Chancellor Klein and Mayor Bloomberg to reconsider this decision. Our children deserve better.” "We already know that artistic outlets like music positively impact academic achievement. Yet when cuts are made to education spending, arts is often the first to go," said Senator Serrano, who chairs the New York State Senate Minority Task Force on the Arts. "The arts create a more well-rounded student body. They raise social awareness and instill confidence. And there is no better way of engaging parents and the local community. Project ARTS is a program we cannot afford to lose." Project ARTS designates funding for arts and dance programs in the City schools, and prevents the funding from being diverted to other programs. It has funneled more than $680 million into arts funding since 1996. ###
02.14.2007	Washington, DC – February 14, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano (D-Bronx) spoke in opposition to the President’s escalation of the Iraq war yesterday during the debate on H. Con. Res. 63, the House resolution disapproving of the plan to send an additional 20,000-plus troops to Iraq. Serrano spoke of the human cost of the war and the false justifications which were used to convince the country to go to war. He believes that all the troops must be withdrawn from Iraq. Video of his speech is linked below. http://serrano.house.gov/av/Serrano_escalation_low.wmv (low resolution) http://serrano.house.gov/av/escalation.wmv (high resolution) ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990, and has consistently opposed the Iraq War including voting against the initial resolution. Serrano is a co-sponsor of H.R. 413, H.R. 455 and H.R. 508, which all call for withdrawal from Iraq.
02.13.2007	Washington, DC – February 13, 2007 – Today at an appropriations hearing, Congressman José E. Serrano asked the head of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), Assistant Secretary Kip Hawley, why the TSA focuses so much of its resources on aviation security to the near exclusion of other sectors like railway and mass transit security. Hawley cited personnel costs and funding priorities set by Congress. “Although terrorists killed U.S. citizens by hijacking planes on 9/11, they have attacked surface transportation with a much higher success rate in various countries throughout the world,” Serrano said after the hearing. “Are we neglecting surface transportation security? Does the administration feel that we can only do so much to guard against an attack on mass transit, and therefore believe it is better to invest a much higher percentage of funds in aviation security?” “There continues to be great disparity between aviation security funding and surface transportation security funding. The President has asked for close to $5 billion in aviation security but only $41.4 million for surface transportation security and freezes Transit Security Grants at $175 million. The rail and mass transit industries are not happy about the President’s request, arguing that the funds fall well below what is needed to ensure the safety of Americans who take public transportation 9.7 billion times a year. More people use New York’s Penn Station everyday than the two airports combined. And yet the TSA has 43,000 aviation security-related employees and only 288 surface transit-related employees. We must re-evaluate our priorities.” In response to Serrano’s questioning, Assistant Secretary Hawley said the TSA was working closely with Amtrak and localities to strengthen the security efforts in place. He further added that aviation security personnel costs had been federalized, and therefore the apparent disparity in funding was made to seem greater. After the hearing, Serrano vowed to continue pushing for more attention and funding for surface transit security saying: “Rail and mass transit deserve the funding and attention that aviation receives. An attack on a subway or commuter train could have just as catastrophic consequences as an attack on a plane. We must balance funding for responses to all the threats against Americans’ security when they travel by any means.” ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990, and is Vice-Chair of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.
02.08.2007	Washington, DC – February 8, 2007 – In a Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee hearing today, Congressman José E. Serrano told DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff that he strongly disagreed with the new plan to raise fees on immigrants seeking green cards or citizenship. Excerpts of the Serrano’s remarks follow as well as video of the full exchange between Serrano and Chertoff. “We have people who are here, documented, legally, who want to become citizens, with backlogs facing them everyday, and now with a criminal increase of 66 percent in the application fee,” Serrano told Secretary Chertoff. “If I was chairman of this subcommittee, my first priority would be to tell you that you’re not getting a penny of those $35 billion dollars you have coming unless you get rid of the fee increase. Because that fee increase takes the American dream of citizenship away from many people. They can’t reach it. They can’t make it.” “I know you could find money within the $35 billion to do what you have to do. But I think that if you wanted to do this, and send a message that if you’re here legally, and you want to become a citizen, we will help you. We will not make it hard for you.” Secretary Chertoff maintained that the fees were necessary to improve the system and keep a backlog from developing. But as of June 30, 2005, the US Citizenship and Immigration Service estimated that it had about 1.2 million cases in its backlog, while immigrants’ rights advocates assert that the true backlog is far greater than that number. You can see the full exchange between Serrano and Chertoff here:http://www.house.gov/serrano/av/FEES.wmv (32 mb) or http://www.house.gov/serrano/av/FEES_low.wmv (2 mb)
02.08.2007	Congressman José E. Serrano voted in favor of an economic stimulus package last night which will give a much-needed boost to the economy and help to working families in the Bronx. “Yesterday, we voted to send a bill to the President that will help all Americans receive the assistance they need during these economically challenging times,” said Serrano. “I am pleased the bill will include rebates for working families and also senior citizens and disabled veterans. The best part is that this stimulus package will provide direct help to Bronx families wherever they are on the economic ladder.” The legislation will provide base rebate checks ranging from $300 to $1200 for those who earned at least $3000 in income in the last year. The bill also allows for families with children to receive additional payments of $300 per child, and provides tax breaks for small businesses. The checks sent out by the Treasury Department are expected to reach people starting in mid-May. “This package will help Bronx families, seniors and veterans to weather an economic downturn. I pushed for that in my conversation with Treasury Secretary Paulson,” added Serrano, who chairs the House Appropriations subcommittee which oversees the Treasury Department’s budget. “Hard-working people like those in our community are often the hardest hit by economic slow-downs. During the Bush years, the tax cuts and economic help were aimed at the richest in our society. With a new Democratic majority in the Congress, we have refocused the government’s economic sights on those who need it most: folks who work for a living, not those who live off their investments. This is a new direction and it is much-needed.” ###
02.05.2007	Washington, DC – February 5, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano responded today to several reports from the government and press on the state of our nation’s dysfunctional and punitive immigration system. He responded to a newly announced plan to raise the fees levied on applicants for citizenship, and also to the deplorable conditions at detainment facilities for immigrants waiting for processing and/or deportation. “Everyone knows that our immigration system is broken, but just how bad things have become must shock and dismay people,” Serrano said. “I found myself outraged at the reports both official and in the press over the past several weeks. The reports highlight aspects of the broken immigration system and the need for fair and comprehensive immigration reform. I believe that any reform must fix the problems without punishing immigrants who come here seeking a better life for themselves and their families.” Serrano responded to a report from the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General (DHS OIG) on the treatment of immigration detainees housed at immigration and customs enforcement facilities. This report, along with an article which appeared in The Washington Post, on February 2nd, both pointed to the horrific conditions at the camps where detainees are held. The Washington Post Article in part profiled a tent facility in Raymondsville, TX where people are kept in the windowless tents 23 hours a day and multiple public health violations have been found. The DHS OIG report confirmed serious health, safety and civil rights violations at their facilities. “It seems that our immigration system has come perilously close in nature to our correctional system,” Serrano said. “Immigrants are not criminals and should not be treated as though they are. The anti-immigrant zealots would have you believe that immigrants who cross the border without permission have broken the criminal code. In fact, they have only committed a civil offense, and therefore should not be subjected to treatment that criminalizes them. We must clear the backlog, so no one is stuck waiting for months on end for a hearing.” Serrano also reacted to the announced plan of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to raise the fees charged by the government to immigrants seeking to legalize or adjust their status. Some of the increases would nearly triple the prices of certain steps of the naturalization process. For example: It will cost $905 to apply for a green card or to adjust residency status, up from $325; The price of bringing a foreign fiancée to the will now cost $455, more than double its current fee; Naturalization will cost immigrants with green cards $595, up from $330. “This is just further proof that Congress must act to fix the system,” Serrano said. “The horror stories of delays and red tape at the USCIS are truly shocking. Congress must appropriate funds to fix these problems—not stand idly by while the nation’s newest arrivals pay exorbitant fees for terrible service. “Ours is a nation of immigrants, and we have a responsibility to help those most recently arrived to become productive contributors to our society as quickly as possible—not punish them for having made the journey. Everyone deserves a fair shot at a good life here in the United States—and decent conditions if they are detained. We must act quickly to rectify these situations. How we treat the least powerful among us is a reflection on us all.” The report of the DHS OIG can be found at http://www.dhs.gov/xoig/assets/mgmtrpts/OIG_07-01_Dec06.pdf
01.30.2007	Washington, DC – January 30, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano criticized the Department of Defense and Veterans Administration today for changing its casualty count in and . Reports in major papers show that the DOD and VA have revised downwards the official number of casualties from the conflict zones in order to reflect the number of troops wounded by combat or “hostile” injuries. “When we send troops into combat, any injury they suffer is a direct result of their exposure to that combat, and must be classified as such,” Serrano said. “I have always abhorred the term ‘friendly fire.’ No fire is friendly, and no injury deserves to go uncounted and unrecorded as a product of a war. We cannot tell soldiers who were hurt in or , some gravely, that their injuries are less important than others. Everyone wounded because of decisions to go to war must be treated equally. “Service to our country must be honored, not undercounted for political reasons. It is clear to everyone that the Administration has much to gain from a smaller injury count resulting from their decision to take us into on shaky or false evidence. The American people deserve truth when it comes to the justification for, and results of, our nation going to war. “Our troops have served honorably, and deserve Pentagon and civilian leadership that gives them the respect they deserve by telling the truth publicly about their situation and their injuries. I believe that the first truth they should tell us is that we cannot win this war militarily. It’s time to bring the troops home, so we don’t have to worry about injury classifications, or more deaths in a needlessly prolonged war.”
01.24.2007	Washington, DC – January 24, 2007 – Congressman José E. Serrano spoke today in support of permitting territorial Delegates and the Puerto Rican Resident Commissioner to the Congress to have a vote in the “Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union” – a parliamentary construct used to expedite House action. The House voted after his remarks to extend these rights to the Delegates and Resident Commissioner by a margin of 226-191. The following are excerpts from Congressman Serrano’s remarks urging his colleagues to support his measure: “The four million people who live in Puerto Rico – the citizens, American citizens that live in all the territories – have no way to represent themselves in Congress; have no way to vote for the President of the United States. “At this very moment dozens of Puerto Ricans are mourned as they died in the war in . Yet their colleagues who come back will not be able to express themselves in Congress, or through a Presidential vote, in terms of how they feel about that war or about that service. “And so the issue today is simply this: do you believe that American citizens, and that has to be repeated, American citizens, who live in territories – not states – have certain rights? I believe they have full rights, and if it was up to me they would have full voting representation. All we’re saying today is that these delegates will have a right to participate on the House floor. “So what are we really giving them? An opportunity to participate in democracy. How can we be trying to spread democracy throughout the world when we’re not willing to spread it here at home?” After the vote, Serrano applauded his colleagues for extending the limited right to vote on the floor to the delegates for the first time in 12 years, saying that it was “the first step toward dealing with one of the central issues of American colonies” and calling for “more steps in the future toward giving these citizens full representation in Congress.”
01.23.2007	Washington, DC – January 23, 2007 – After listening to the President’s 2007 State of the Union address, Congressman José E. Serrano concluded that “the President was more out of touch with the American people than ever,” and that “he seems determined to take the nation down a path that the people do not want.” “I look back on the past several State of the Union addresses, and see a country that has been ever more divided and taken further down the wrong track by this President,” Serrano said. “President Bush has repeatedly assured us that victory in is just around the corner, when we all know that victory is more a distant dream than ever. He told us last year that we had to break our addiction to oil, and then did absolutely nothing to lower consumption or increase energy efficiency. He tells us every year that we are closer to closing the budget deficit, but we continue to find that we are taking in billions less than we are spending. And yet he continues to promote policies that worsen all these problems.” “This President loves to talk a big game, but his results are a far cry from his rhetoric. On the other hand, the nation brought Congressional Democrats to power in November, and we have immediately turned our pledges into reality.” Democrats promised to: Implement the 9/11 Commission Recommendations; Increase the Minimum Wage; Expand Stem Cell Research; Allow Negotiation for Lower Prescription Drug Costs; Cut Interest Rates on Student Loans; and End Subsidies for Big Oil and Invest in Renewable Energy. “I’m proud to say that the House delivered on those promises in the first weeks of the new Congress. Actions speak louder than words, Mr. President.” “There is one issue that trumps all domestic policy concerns right now: . I believe that we must act now to end the war in , and bring the troops home. We should not increase the number of valiant soldiers caught in the middle of that civil war. We can do nothing further to improve the situation in ; the only thing left to do is to leave. I continue to oppose escalations of the war and continue to call for an immediate withdrawal.”
01.15.2007	Washington, DC – January 15, 2007 – In today’s commemoration of the life and works of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Congressman José E. Serrano urged Americans to remember his message of peace and tolerance. “Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. appealed to our deeper sense of justice and fairness as human beings. This is the reason that the lessons that he taught still have such resonance and meaning today. They are lessons of a timeless quality.” “I take heart that our nation took a clear step toward his doctrine of non-violence in November, when the voters of the nation clearly signaled their opposition to the war. Dr. King’s vehement opposition to another war of choice a generation ago in provides lessons for us in today’s conflict. His words ring as true now as they did then” In April 1967, Dr. King spoke at a meeting of Clergy and Laity Concerned at Riverside Church in New York City . He said: “The world now demands a maturity of that we may not be able to achieve. It demands that we admit that we have been wrong from the beginning of our adventure in , that we have been detrimental to the life of the Vietnamese people. The situation is one in which we must be ready to turn sharply from our present ways. In order to atone for our sins and errors in , we should take the initiative in bringing a halt to this tragic war.” “Our nation must now take these steps in as well,” Serrano added. “We must admit that we have been wrong from the start. We must turn sharply from our present ways. And we must bring a halt to this tragic war.” "Dr. King had the recipe for healing the ills of the modern American state. He laid it out in plain English. But he realized that the true healing began with each and every American. We must follow his guidelines toward a better and better world. To do otherwise is to dishonor his legacy.”
01.11.2007	Washington, DC – January 10, 2007 –Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, the newly-named chair of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, expressed his opposition to the IRS’s outsourcing of debt collection. “I agree with the Taxpayer Advocate Service’s report which said that outsourcing the debt collections of the IRS is both wasteful and inefficient,” Serrano said. “This program privatizes a function of the IRS without any added cost-effectiveness. Paying up to 25 cents on the dollar collected by the private debt collection agencies takes much-needed revenue away from the federal government, which could do the work more efficiently. I do not believe in outsourcing simply for outsourcing’s sake especially when it is more costly to taxpayers.” The IRS began this program in September 2006, with Congressional authorization. The IRS has a collections budget of nearly $2 billion with thousands of employees—allowing them to complete this work far more efficiently than by outsourcing it. According to the Taxpayer Advocate Service, the IRS currently has at least 65 employees monitoring the work of the outside collections agencies, who in turn have approximately 75 employees working on the cases.
01.10.2007	Washington, DC – January 10, 2007 –Today, Congressman José E. Serrano voiced his deep opposition to what he has called President Bush’s “unconscionable escalation of the war.” “President Bush is like a gambler who has lost everything, but yet continues to try to salvage his fortunes by doubling down one more time,” Serrano said. “The problem is that he’s gambling with other people’s lives. There is no military solution to the problems in —Bush must recognize this reality.” “The majority of American people want to de-escalate and disengage from this misguided conflict. I believe their government, and the President must listen to them. Along with many of my Democratic colleagues, I co-sponsored a resolution against this escalation. But I must add that I not only oppose an escalation, but also oppose our continued presence in , and ask the President: what just cause could our further involvement possibly advance? We must bring the troops home and out of the way of a civil war that they cannot control or even influence. “And so I add my voice to the millions of Americans who say ‘No escalation’ and more importantly, ‘Bring the troops home.’ The President must listen to the American people and their representatives--not just to the echo chamber that his closest advisers have constructed around him. Outside his inner circle, everyone is stating the obvious--the war must end without delay. Their message is clear; he must stop doubling down on a bad bet and gambling with the lives of 20,000 more courageous Americans.”
01.04.2007	Washington, DC – January 4, 2007 –Congressman José E. Serrano was named the chair of the newly-created Financial Services Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee today. “I am honored to be entrusted to oversee this portion of the federal budget,” Serrano said. “For a man of humble beginnings, who represents one of the most underprivileged communities in the nation, overseeing such an important portion of our government’s activities is quite an honor. Today is a proud day for the Bronx , as one of their own has been given a great responsibility. I am determined to make the people of the Bronx proud and to continue to represent their core values of hard work, family, and doing right by others. “I intend to bring a common-sense approach to dealing with these agencies, and will, as I always have, push for fairness and justice for those of lesser means. Our government has the power to make life better for the average American, and I will ensure that this portion of the budget reflects that goal.” The Financial Services Subcommittee will oversee the budgets of multiple agencies including the Treasury Department, the District of Columbia , the FDIC, the FEC, the Postal Service, the FCC, the FTC, the SEC, and the GSA, among others. Serrano was confirmed Chair of the Subcommittee in an organizational meeting of the full Appropriations Committee this morning. He was the second-ranking member on the Commerce/Justice/State/Science subcommittee in the 109th Congress. He continues to serve on the Homeland Security subcommittee and has also joined Energy and Water subcommittee.
01.03.2007	Washington, DC – January 3, 2007 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano lamented the 3000th death of a servicemember in . “Over the holiday weekend, we learned of the death of the 3000th member of the U.S. Armed Forces in ,” Serrano said. “This was a truly sad milestone, as we should never have lost a single brave American in this ill-planned conflict. Our soldiers have performed so admirably in this mission, but they are simply unable to contain a growing civil war. “There is only one solution to the mess in : Our nation must pull all the troops out of as soon as possible. We cannot force them into a peaceful democracy to end a millennium of sectarian differences. We cannot ‘win’ this war in the ways that this Administration defines ‘winning.’ We must recognize that, and devote ourselves to disengaging from this disaster. “My heart goes out to the family of every soldier who has been killed or wounded in this conflict. Democrats in Congress will continue to do everything possible to support them. “Beyond that, however, there is a deeper and more solemn promise that we must make at the end of this conflict. The elected officials of this nation must promise to never again send our troops into a battle without a plan for peace, and a realistic vision of the mission. Never again must American troops die because leaders in Washington refuse to consider evidence that does not support their viewpoint. People’s lives are always more important than political gain. “It is time for the troops to come home because, as John Kerry so famously said, we should not ask another person to die for a mistake.”
12.21.2006	Washington, DC – December 21, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano responded today to comments made by Virginia Congressman Virgil Goode (R-VA) about incoming Representative-elect Keith Ellison’s (D-MN) Muslim faith. Congressman Goode, in a response to a constituent letter, expressed displeasure at Representative-elect Ellison’s desire to be sworn in on a copy of the Koran. He then went on to say that “"We need to stop illegal immigration totally and reduce legal immigration.... I fear that in the next century we will have many more Muslims in the if we do not adopt the strict immigration policies that I believe are necessary to preserve the values and beliefs traditional to the ." “I wholeheartedly condemn the comments of the Congressman from Virginia ,” said Serrano. “He manages to conflate Congressman Ellison’s faith with a threat to our democracy and values. I choose instead to celebrate the election of Mr. Ellison to the 110th Congress, in which we will have unprecedented diversity based on religion, gender, and ethnicity. Our nation cherishes religious freedom, tolerance, and equality. The election of Representative Ellison is a validation of those core values, and of our system of government. Our diversity is our strength as a nation, and can only enhance our standing in the world.” The 110th Congress will have record numbers of religious minorities, including the first ever Buddhists (2), and the first ever Muslim to serve in Congress. In addition there will also be a record number of women (86).
12.18.2006	Washington, DC – December 18, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano denounced the series of immigration raids that took place across the country last week aimed at undocumented workers in the meatpacking industry. “These unfortunate raids only highlight the broken nature of our current immigration system by heaping unnecessary cruelty upon the arrested undocumented workers. The current system provides no way for the businesses of our nation to find the labor supply they need, and provides no way to allow immigrants to become documented workers who need not fear deportation. It is long past time that woke up to the realities of the immigration situation and fixed the system. “Our nation should be against taking mothers away from their children—mothers who are working to provide a better life for those children. It should be against deporting hard-working people mere weeks before the holidays. Our nation has never turned away workers who come seeking a decent salary and a shot at a better life. The “tough-on-immigration” charade must end. “I believe that we must immediately take action to provide a clear, non-punitive path to citizenship. In the coming Congress I look forward to pushing for that policy. I believe substantial majorities of both chambers of Congress support a fair and rational approach to solving the problem. I know that almost all can agree that a pre-holiday raid that takes a mother away from her infant and separates families is not the correct approach. “Everyone deserves a shot at a decent life. has provided that opportunity for millions of people over many generations. It is one of our most honorable traditions and should not fall by the wayside.” ###
12.15.2006	Washington, DC – December 15, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated Congressman-elect Ciro Rodriguez on his upset victory earlier this week. “I am so happy to welcome my friend Ciro Rodriguez back to Congress,” Serrano said. “He pulled off a great victory and showed that Democrats’ message of a new direction has true power all over the nation including in the President’s home state. He also showed that the demonization of immigrants and the harsh policies that the Republicans enacted toward them are out of touch with the welcoming, generous spirit of the American people. I look forward to working side-by-side again with Ciro Rodriguez in the 110th Congress.” ###
12.01.2006	The Bronx , NY – December 1, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano congratulated Congressman Silvestre Reyes on his appointment to the Chairmanship of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “I was happy to learn that my friend and fellow Congressional Hispanic Caucus member Silvestre Reyes has been chosen to lead the House Intelligence Committee in the coming Congress. Silvestre will do an excellent job in making sure that our intelligence agencies are protecting our nation and also our civil liberties. “I also would like to commend the other candidates for this position; Rep. Jane Harman for the exemplary job she did in this post and my friend Rep. Alcee Hastings for his long record of service and dedication to our nation. In addition, it was an admirable decision on the part of Speaker-Elect Pelosi to again promote diversity of leadership in the Democratic Caucus.”
11.30.2006	Who: Congressman José E. Serrano; multiple Latino artists, musicians and other community leaders. When: Red Carpet Arrival—6:00–7:30 PM Awards Ceremony—8:00 – 11:00 PM Where: Lehman College Theater, 250 Bedford Park West, The Bronx , NY 10468 What: Congressman José E. Serrano will be honored at the 2006 Premios Latinos for his service to the community and his important voice on Latino issues in New York and nationwide. Artists, musicians, and other community leaders will be honored at the ceremony, which has been dedicated to the late Mexican television host Raúl Velasco. ###
11.27.2006	The Bronx, NY – November 27, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on the Saturday police shooting of several men in a wedding party in Queens . “I’m deeply troubled by the reports of apparent use of excessive force by the police in confronting a group of men in Queens on Saturday night. I urge the police department and Queens ’ District Attorney’s office to leave no stone unturned and to finish the investigation with all possible speed. No community should worry that a misunderstanding could lead to a deadly hail of bullets fired by police officers. I expect that the full weight of the law will come down upon anyone found to have acted improperly in this horrible situation. “This situation reminds us that sadly, seven years after the tragic shooting of Amadou Diallo, we still need to stamp out police brutality, we still must confront racial profiling, and we still must address police training practices. “I also would like to extend my sympathy to all the families of the victims of this tragedy with my deepest condolences to Sean Bell’s family and bride-to-be. The families must see justice served in this case for some small measure of relief from their suffering. The community must also see justice served.” ###
11.17.2006	The Bronx, NY – November 17, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano welcomed the ceremonial first delivery of discounted heating oil for low income residents of the Bronx from CITGO. Citizen’s Energy—a non-profit heating oil distribution company—will handle the distribution of the discount fuel this winter throughout New York City’s five boroughs and was on hand for the first delivery. “I am very glad that CITGO is continuing and expanding their discounted home heating oil program for this coming winter,” Serrano said. “This program is a testament to the power of corporations to do good deeds in the communities where they operate, if they put their mind to it. CITGO is a model corporate citizen. I intend to ask other oil companies to contribute discounted heating oil to the citizens of the Bronx as well—and I hope that they will follow CITGO’s lead.” “I am also pleased that Citizen’s Energy and Joseph Kennedy will be managing the operation of this program this year. Their expertise will mean that more people and buildings will benefit from the program. I salute their dedication to providing low income people with a helping hand in these times of high energy prices and increasing economic pressures.” ###
11.16.2006	Who: Congressman José E. Serrano; CITGO President Felix Rodriguez: Bernardo Alvarez, Venezuelan Ambassador to the ; Citizens Energy President Joseph P. Kennedy III; heating oil recipients. When: Friday, November 17th, 2006, 11 a.m. Where: 1234 Spofford Avenue , Hunts Point, The Bronx . What: Congressman José E. Serrano will participate in a ceremonial delivery of the first shipment of CITGO’s discounted heating oil for low income residents in the Bronx . The program will be managed by Citizen’s Energy, a non-profit organization headed by Joseph Kennedy which distributes low cost heating oil in the Northeast. This will be the second year that the program has benefited low income residents of the Bronx . The ceremony is the beginning of CITGO’s 2006/2007 program in selected locales across the nation. ###
11.03.2006	The Bronx , NY – November 3, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano condemned a recent federal policy change that prevents automatic enrollment of newborn children of low-income undocumented immigrants in Medicaid. “These changes are both shameful and cruel. I am stunned that our nation is seeking to prevent needed health care for newborn citizens,” said Serrano. “This continued war on immigrants has gone too far. The cannot, and should not, permit such discriminatory practices.” As reported in today’s New York Times, a provision in the Deficit Reduction Act tightened documentation requirements for Medicaid eligibility. In interpreting the provision, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services has included newborns as part of this new rule, thus requiring their parents to file a Medicaid application for the newborn child, and to offer proof of that child’s citizenship through a birth certificate or other form of documentation. Previous regulations deemed qualifying newborn children eligible for Medicaid for up to one year. “That these newborn children have been born in the is indisputable,” said Serrano. “What more must we know? This is simply another attempt to tighten restrictions on undocumented immigrants. It will only further drive them into the shadows of society, and it will hurt our newest American citizens- who need important health care and immunizations during their first year of life.” ###
10.31.2006	URGES ALL OFFICIALS TO MAINTAIN IMPARTIALITY Washington, DC – October 31, 2006 –Congressman José E. Serrano urged all officials to maintain a completely neutral stance regarding the outcome of upcoming Nicaraguan elections. Recent commentary by executive branch and State Department officials has given a skewed view of the official position of impartiality. “It is simply unacceptable for American officials to pretend our government will take punitive measures if Daniel Ortega is elected president in ,” Serrano said. “Our position should be clear: we support free and fair elections and will work with the winner as we would any other elected head of state in the world. Perhaps some in the executive branch and elsewhere have forgotten that the does not have the right to intervene in other nations’ affairs. They would better serve our nation’s interests in democracy and rule of law by avoiding partisan commentary about other nation’s elections and candidates. To do otherwise is unseemly and counterproductive.” “The history of the ’ role in – particularly with regard to Daniel Ortega – is such that any statements made by public officials must be weighed very carefully,” Serrano added. “It seems that some officials have forgotten that history and forgotten the proper role of our government. I urge them to withdraw their statements, and cease support for any particular outcome in this contest. The free exercise of democracy should be their only goal in the Nicaraguan elections. “I am particularly troubled by the statements of Embassy spokesperson Kristin Stewart. She publicly linked Ortega with terrorist groups and said that the would revise its policy toward the Nicaraguan government should he win. I believe her words were unfortunate and wrong, and merit a withdrawal. Electioneering is not the proper role of an Embassy or its spokesperson.” Stewart told the Nicaraguan newspaper La Prensa that “If a foreign government has a relationship with terrorist organizations, like the Sandinistas did in the past; law permits us to apply sanctions. [...] Again, it will be necessary to revise our policies if Ortega wins.” “I also view as inappropriate the thinly-veiled economic threats that Secretary Gutierrez made in recent days,” Serrano added. “Our trade with will be unharmed by the election of either candidate, contrary to what he asserted. The Secretary should not try to influence foreign elections with his statements.” Gutierrez said: “It is not a secret that when [Ortega’s] party was in power many years ago, the relationship with the suffered a great deal, and trade between both countries dropped significantly. [...] These elections are very important and we want the Nicaraguan people remember the important economic relationship between both countries and that this is not a moment to put this at risk.” “I pledge that I will do everything in my power to make sure that the government of the will respect the wishes of the Nicaraguan people regardless of who wins their presidential election,” Serrano concluded. “Our nation desires nothing more than a flourishing democracy in .” The article citing Embassy spokesperson Kristin Stewart can be found at: http://www-usa.laprensa.com.ni/archivo/2006/octubre/31/noticias/politica/153217_print.shtml The press release citing Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez’ comments can be found at: http://usinfo.state.gov/xarchives/display.html?p=washfile-english&y=2006&m=October&x=20061019153918ASrelliM0.732815 ###
10.27.2006	The Bronx , NY – October 27, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano presented Eugenio María de Hostos Community College with two flags which flew into space on NASA shuttle missions. Serrano requested that NASA carry these flags—one from Puerto Rico and the other from the Dominican Republic—as an important symbol of gratitude for the immense contributions of these two communities to the United States and to New York City. “Flags are the symbolic rallying point for the hopes and dreams of both the Dominican and Puerto Rican communities,” Serrano said. “Sending them to space on the NASA shuttle was a way of honoring the achievements of these important communities, and honoring their future aspirations.” “As a Puerto Rican myself, I cannot adequately express the importance of this moment. Our flag represents our community, which has gone so many places, touched so many lives, and made such important contributions to the world. We have achieved so much in all different fields—and yet we always have remained true to our roots. I believe that we will continue to play our special role in the and in the world. I am so very glad to have played a part in honoring the Puerto Rican community in this way. “Similarly, for the Dominicans, this flag is recognition of all that these great people have done to make this city and nation what it is. Without their contributions to our nation, we would not be who we are today. They are invaluable both as citizens here in the and as a neighbors in our hemisphere. I feel that sending a flag representing them is a fitting honor and one that I am proud to have been involved with. I salute the Dominican community for everything that it has done and everything that it will do for our nation and our world in the future." Accepting the flags on behalf of Hostos Community College , President Dolores M. Fernández thanked Congressman Serrano for having made this possible and added, “We always encourage our students—Puerto Rican, Dominican, and all other nationalities—to aim for the skies. These flags will remind them that with dedication and determination, the sky is indeed the limit.” “I cannot think of a better place to put these flags on permanent display than at Hostos Community College in the Bronx ,” Serrano added. “It is especially fitting because this institution is not only named for a hero of both the Dominican and Puerto Rican people, but also educates many of the Dominican and Puerto Rican people in the Bronx . It is a symbol of the upward path of these communities, as are these flags. I hope that all those who see the flags will recognize the achievements of the Puerto Rican and Dominican communities and the limitless potential of their future.” ###
10.26.2006	***GOOD VISUALS*** Who: Congressman José E. Serrano; Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat; Dario Medina, Vice-Consul, Dominican Republic; Astronaut Michael J. Massimino; Dr. Pedro Rodriguez, Director NASA test laboratory; Hostos President Dolores Fernandez; and other local officials. When: Friday, October 27, 2006, 10 A.M. Where: Hostos Community College , The Repertory Theater, 450 Grand Concourse, The Bronx What: Congressman José E. Serrano will present the flags of Puerto Rico and the to Eugenio María de Hostos Community College for display. At the Congressman’s request, the flags were both taken into space aboard a NASA space shuttle. The Congressman felt that these space shuttle voyages would be a small token of honor for the vast contributions of both these proud communities to the . ###
10.23.2006	Washington, DC – October 23, 2006 – As this month is rapidly becoming one of the deadliest for U.S. troops in Iraq, Congressman José E. Serrano renewed his call for an immediate and complete withdrawal. “If I had had it my way in 2003, we would have never been in Iraq,” Serrano said. “If I could have my way now, we’d be withdrawing all soldiers immediately. But this Administration and their Republican congressional allies continue to ignore the realities of an irretrievable disaster in Iraq—and fail to provide any changes in strategy. On top of that, they continually engage in a repugnant approach of labeling opponents of the war as unpatriotic defeatists. This has a chilling effect on loyal, patriotic dissent—the dissent that is so vital to a functioning democracy.” “It is clear to even the most casual observer that Iraq is engulfed in an internal war—and that American soldiers are caught in the crossfire. Indeed, the only thing the Iraqis can seem to agree on is their common desire to see an end to the American occupation. There is nothing left for our troops to do. “We all mourn the lives lost this month—and in all the months in Iraq. The soldiers who perished sacrificed their lives honorably. It is not too much to ask their civilian leaders to hold themselves to the same high standards of honor in their duties. Honor for a soldier includes telling the truth. The political leaders in Washington should do the same. “As I see it, the only way to win the war in Iraq is to admit that we do not have the ability to control the situation and withdraw our troops. Our brave men and women in uniform have done all they can do in Iraq. It is time for them to come home to the hero’s welcome they all deserve.” ###
10.16.2006	Washington, DC – October 16, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano helped break ground today for the José E. Serrano Center for Global Conservation at the Bronx Zoo, which is part of the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS). The new Center for Global Conservation, which will unite the WCS’s work in the field with researchers, academics and others at their Bronx headquarters, is a major investment in the research infrastructure of the WCS in the Bronx . “I am so honored that the good people at the WCS chose my name for their new conservation center,” Serrano said. “What has only been a dream for so long is about to become a reality and it’s very exciting.” “I have spent all but a few early years of my life in the Bronx , and so from childhood visits to today. I have seen incredible changes in the Bronx and at our zoo. The WCS is now a world leader in conservation efforts, and with this new center, will continue to be a leader for years to come. “Not only will this Center for Global Conservation impact our world community in constructive ways, but it will also have a positive economic impact here in the Bronx . There will be new job opportunities created at this Center. In addition, there will be approximately 100 new jobs that will become available during the upcoming construction period. This is a win-win situation for the Bronx and the WCS. “It is not every day that you have a building named after you – and having one named after me here at the Bronx Zoo is particularly moving. Throughout my long career in public office, I have always fought for and been passionate about the protection of our environment – whether it is for the restoration of our Bronx River or finding ways to address our community’s asthma crisis. Knowing that significant conservation work will take place in this building makes this naming particularly special to me.” ###
10.16.2006	Washington, DC – October 16, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano, who participated in the release of final results of an NYU study on childhood asthma and pollution in the South Bronx today, called the findings “distressing” and “a call to further action.” “Today we learned of the final results of the multi-year NYU study on the connection between childhood asthma and pollution in the South Bronx ,” Serrano said. “These results gave us proof positive of what we already know; our children need to be protected from polluted air. We also now know that the opposite of that is happening in the South Bronx, where our children are being exposed to more polluted air from various factors. This study, for instance, points specifically to transportation and traffic pollution as a major cause of high asthma rates.” The study found that about one in five of all pre-k through eighth graders in the South Bronx attend schools within 500 feet of major highways, where air pollution concentrations exceed normal levels. South Bronx children are twice as likely to attend a school near a highway as other children in the City. The part of the study which monitored children in four South Bronx schools definitively demonstrated for the first time that diesel-related soot particles are associated with the increased asthma problems among these inner-city children. Indeed, this study found that, on school days experiencing elevated traffic pollution, the children experienced both diminished lung function and a roughly doubling of asthma-related wheeze symptoms. “Essentially this study is a call to further action,” Serrano added. “We cannot sit idly by and let our children suffer because of past land use and transportation planning decisions, which are now causing so much harm in the South Bronx. The time is now for all interested parties – parents, elected officials, businesspeople, transportation experts, and public health experts – to sit down and come up with a comprehensive plan to combat the scourge of airborne pollution and childhood asthma. “I am proud to have been a supporter of this study and will continue to fight for environmental justice in the South Bronx . Our children will not be written off—they are our future and their health is too precious. Today marks a turning point: the hard scientific proof is there—now we must take action.” ###
10.13.2006	***Please note these are two separate events at different locations*** *** WCS Bronx Zoo Conservation Center Naming, Groundbreaking Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, Florence Davis, President C. V. Starr Foundation Sylvia Smith, Principal – FXFowle Architects David T. Schiff, Chairman Wildlife Conservation Society Dr. Steven E. Sanderson, WCS President and CEO John Calvelli, WCS Senior Vice President for Public Affairs Fourth Graders from P.S. 205 ~ Bronx When: Monday, October 16th, 11 A.M. Where: The Bronx Zoo Directions: Bronx River Parkway to Exit 7 W/Fordham Road. Take ramp on right; turn left onto Southern Boulevard; left at next light onto Fordham Road East. At next light, turn RIGHT into Bronx Zoo’s Rainey Gate (go around “full parking” sign.) You will be directed to reserved parking. Staff will direct you to event site (on right across from Aviary.) What: Congressman José E. Serrano will deliver remarks at the groundbreaking and naming ceremony of the José E. Serrano Center for Global Conservation on the C.V. Starr Science Campus at the Bronx Zoo. The $30 million Conservation Center will use state of the art technology to link WCS headquarters to conservationists around the world. It will be a one-of-a-kind “living laboratory,” an interface between science, education and policy. *** Asthma Study Results Press Conference Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, New York University’s School of Medicine – Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, We Stay/Nos Quedamos, The Point CDC, Sports Foundation, Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice When: Monday, October 16, 4 P.M. Where: Monsignor Raul Del Valle SquareAt Southern Blvd. and E.163rd St., The Bronx . What: Congressman José E. Serrano will take part in a press conference releasing the findings of a multi-year study on the links between asthma and heightened pollution in the South Bronx . The study’s findings shed new light on the extremely high rates of asthma in Bronx youth. The study was conducted by NYU’s School of Medicine and Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. ###
10.13.2006	Washington, DC – October 13, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano received word today that he had scored 100 percent on the 2006 League of Conservation Voters’ Environmental Scorecard. “I believe that Congress must take the lead in protecting our environment,” Serrano said. “Unfortunately, in a Congress run by a conservative Republican majority, pro-environment legislative successes were few, but I feel that maintaining a strong stance against their excesses is my duty. Our environment and the planet’s health are approaching dangerous tipping points, after which it will be hard or impossible to repair the damage already done. We must take action now and not pass these problems on to the next generation.” The League of Conservation Voters explains that “The National Environmental Scorecard - based on a scale of 0 to 100 - was scored on the number of pro-environment votes cast out of the total number included for 2006. Absences are counted as a negative vote. Among the votes included in the 2006 Scorecard are those on offshore drilling, drilling royalties, public health and environmental funding.” “I look forward to a time when the White House and Congress are controlled by people who care to take action to protect the environment,” Serrano added. “Hopefully the Congress will change hands in upcoming weeks. In the meantime, I will continue to push worthy initiatives, and vote against measures that harm our environment. This is my obligation to my constituents, our children, and our grandchildren.” ###
10.11.2006	***Please note these are three separate events at different locations*** *** South Bronx Job Corps Academy Ribbon Cutting Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, directors of the South Bronx Job Corps Academy When: Thursday, October 12, 2 p.m. Where: South Bronx Job Corps Academy 1771 Andrews Avenue (off Tremont Avenue & University Avenues), The Bronx. What: Congressman José E. Serrano will inaugurate the new gymnasium at the South Bronx Job Corps Academy —a federally-funded program whose vocational training mission is important to the resurgence of the South Bronx . Congressman Serrano is a longtime supporter of programs that help people in the 16th Congressional District to gain skills for better jobs. **** 19th Annual Hunts Point Tent Party Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, other local dignitaries. When: Thursday, October 12, 3:30 p.m. Where: The New Fulton Fish Market, Hunts Point. 800 Food Center Drive, Bronx, NY What: Congressman Serrano will join members of the community at the 19th Annual Hunts Point Tent Party, which celebrates the economic development of the Hunts Point section of the South Bronx . The event is being held in the new Fulton Fish Market, which is a major new economic presence in the South Bronx . **** Living Legend Tribute Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, Mr. Dennis Terry, Mr. Max Blauner, directors of the Citizens Advice Bureau. When: Thursday, October 12, 6:45 p.m. Where: CAB Community Center , which is located at 1130 Grand Concourse between 166th and McClellan Streets What: Congressman Serrano will be honored with a Living Legend tribute from the Citizens Advice Bureau, for his work in support of capital projects and direct service programs that have played a key role in the revitalization of the Bronx . Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) is a Bronx-based settlement house. This is their first annual Living Legends ceremony. ###
10.02.2006	Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Borough President Adolfo Carrión, other officials. When: Tuesday, October 3rd, 10 A.M. Where: Bronx Museum of the Arts 1040 Grand Concourse, Bronx , 10456 What: Congressman José E. Serrano will be joined by Mayor Bloomberg and other local officials to inaugurate the Bronx Museum of the Arts’ new annex building. Serrano is a longtime champion of the B.M.A., and was able to secure more than $6 million in federal funds to help make this project a reality. Serrano feels arts have an invaluable place in the ongoing renewal of the Bronx . **** Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, other officials. When: Tuesday, October 3rd, 10:30 A.M. Where: Barretto Point Park , Southern terminus of Tiffany Street at Viele Avenue , Hunt’s Point, The Bronx at , Hunt’s Point, The Bronx What: Congressman Serrano and Mayor Bloomberg will preside over the dedication ceremony of Barretto Point Park on the site of a newly reclaimed brownfield in Hunts Point. The five-acre restoration project overlooks the shores of Barretto Bay and features lush grass, a tree-lined promenade, picnic facilities and a public amphitheatre. It represents the keystone public space of the South Bronx Greenway, an initiative that Serrano has supported with federal funds from its inception.
09.29.2006	Washington, DC – September 29, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano reacted today to news that the Republican leadership would keep the House in session in order to pass a final version of a bill to fence 700 miles of the southern border. The fencing plan is “inhumane” and “ineffective” according to Serrano. “Yet again the Republicans are putting their electoral ambitions ahead of the national interest,” Serrano said. “No amount of fencing will keep immigrants who want a better life for themselves and their families from coming to our nation. Instead, this boondoggle will waste more taxpayer dollars and in the end prove itself ineffective at keeping people out. It will also force immigrants to try even more harsh and remote entry points, causing more needless suffering and death.” “Supporters of this bill will again try to equate immigrants with terrorists. But yet the terrorists that have previously sought entry into our country have come through the airports with visas, or through the northern border. This border fence will do nothing to deter terrorists. The false connection to terrorism only smears the reputation of decent, honest immigrants seeking a better life. “I plan to vote against final passage of this bill, as I voted against it in its previous incarnations. Only comprehensive immigration reform with a clear path to citizenship for all immigrants will solve the problem. I believe that further fencing of our border is a mistake. It runs contrary to our national history of welcoming new waves of immigrants—because we knew then that they brought more energy and vitality to this great nation of ours. They still do this and always will.” ###
09.27.2006	Washington, DC – September 27, 2006 — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano questioned the wisdom of potential Republican efforts to add additional harsh immigration enforcement provisions to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, citing the counter-productive effect the provisions would have on cooperation with the government of . Although both Chairmen of the House-Senate conference have promised to keep any such new legislation out of the final conference report, the Republican leadership has suspended further action on the bill. The delay leaves open the possibility that the leadership may attach additional authorizing language to the conference report. “The needs the Mexican government’s cooperation to secure borders against real threats: drugs, terrorists, smuggling,” Congressman Serrano said. “By inserting more harsh immigration provisions in must-pass spending bills, the Republican majority will prove to the Mexican government that they care less about cooperation with them than with political posturing before an election.” “We must recognize that the current Mexican administration has been a good partner with the on border security. We must also realize that this cooperation is controversial to the Mexican public; the Mexican people tolerated cooperation because they believed it would lead to a more sensible immigration policy—comprehensive reform and a temporary guest worker program—as promised by the President when he visited Mexico. “Instead the Republican-led Congress is doing the opposite. They consistently refuse to consider comprehensive reform and guest worker programs. The result has been a slap in the face of the Fox government and the Mexican people. With this, Congress will tie the Bush Administration’s hands in their pledge to work with on many issues of mutual interest—including border security. “Decreased cooperation from on real security threats will make less safe. The real threats are drugs and terrorism, not people in search of decent jobs and a better life. Congress should recognize this, and act accordingly—not with cheap political measures that cause problems for our allies, but with real reforms that improve the situation.” ###
09.21.2006	Washington, DC – September 21, 2006 — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the Republicans’ attempts to pass cruel and meaningless anti-immigrant bills under the banner of reform: “Again this Republican-led House is taking up immigration reform focusing only on border security, yet failing to address the need for real reform,” Serrano said. “The truth that they seek to hide is that providing a legal path to citizenship for the 12 million undocumented people already here is the only true solution.” “Many of my Democratic colleagues and I oppose these measures not because we’re against a secure border but because we believe that the solution to immigration problems needs to be comprehensive and fair. It must take into account the realities of our situation, not just focus on the ‘immigrant-terrorist bogeymen’ that Republicans dream up as the chief problem. “Everyone knows that the Republicans are doing this for political reasons. They think this is their ticket to electoral success in November. The truth is that they are alienating large swaths of the American electorate that believe, as I do, that as a nation of immigrants, we must treat more recent immigrants fairly and decently. Moreover, this strategy is short-sighted: by doing this they ensure their electoral repugnance to Latinos for generations to come.”
09.15.2006	Washington, DC – September 15, 2006 — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano celebrated the beginning of National Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 through October 15. “Hispanic culture is an integral part of this country’s past and its future,” Serrano said. “We are the largest minority group in the nation, but we come from many different backgrounds and have so many different stories to tell. Our common thread however, is our Hispanic heritage—with its devotion to family, patriotism, dedication to hard work, and celebration of life.” “The underlying diversity of the Hispanic community is one of its great strengths. We add so much to the cultural and social fabric of this great nation and it is important to recognize and honor this contribution. “This is an important time for Hispanics in the . The community is currently under fire both directly and indirectly from the anti-immigrant zealots. But our community has come together despite differences to push back against the message of exclusion and xenophobia. The community has found that it has a strong political voice. I’m proud to have witnessed this awakening and to have taken a part in it. “Beyond politics, however, it is deeply moving to see our community coming together as one. We have given this nation so much, and comprise such an important part of it. Without Hispanics, would not be . I salute the Hispanic community and am honored to be a part of it.”
09.11.2006	Washington, DC – September 11, 2006 — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the 5th Anniversary of September 11th: “All of is taking pause today to remember the horrific events of September 11th, 2001. Our nation, and our wonderful city of New York , suffered a terrible blow- one that touched the hearts of people around the world. Neighborhoods, cities, towns mourned with us then, as they do today. “No part of New York City , or the tri-state area, went untouched by this tragedy. People from every neighborhood and every region felt the loss of friends and of family. Those who died came from every walk of life. They were citizens and non-citizens, highly paid corporate executives and low-paid busboys, and working in the buildings or working as our first responders. They were living the American Dream, or working towards it. Each of them, and those that they left behind, deserves our remembrance, respect, and ongoing sympathy. “For those of us in New York on September 11th, this was a day beyond our worst nightmares. Many are still struggling to cope with the after-effects of that day- both physical and mental. Even as we rebuild, we honor the memory of those lost on September 11th, and commit ourselves to helping those who are still recovering from the tragedy.” ###
08.31.2006	Washington, DC – August 31, 2006 — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano mourned the loss of Otilio Diaz, a stalwart of the Puerto Rican community in New York . Known throughout the Bronx, Don Otilio was a Puerto Rican community leader as well as the founder and Executive Director of La Casa de la Herencia Cultural Puertorriqueña in East Harlem . “Otilio Diaz truly earned the respect of the community that he served,” Serrano said. “He was caring, kind and wise, not to mention being a great leader. I respected him and his work deeply and mourn his passing. I can rejoice, however, in the life that he led and the many important things he did during his time on earth. I believe that his life was an exemplary one; one that our children should hear about and learn from. “Otilio spent many years bringing attention to the Puerto Rican community for its positive cultural values. Without his efforts, we would not see the types of Puerto Rican self-respect and pride that we see today. This is one of his most important legacies. “My heart goes out to his family for their loss, but I’m sure they are busy celebrating the life of this great Puerto Rican New Yorker who did so much for his people. Our city, state, and nation are a better place for his efforts. He will be missed but not forgotten." ###
08.29.2006	Washington, DC – August 29, 2006 — Today, Congressman José E. Serrano reflected on the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina and the year since the storm hit today. The storm caused cataclysmic devastation of both lives and property, and untold suffering. One year later, however, many of the promises of the federal government have gone unfulfilled. “On behalf of the Bronx and my Congressional District, I would like to extend the most sincere sympathy to the victims of Katrina, their families and friends,” Serrano said. “A year after the storm, it is clear that their lives have not been rebuilt and their suffering has not been relieved. Our nation will never forget watching the unfolding disaster and realizing that the weakest and poorest among us were those left to fend for themselves. It was an immense tragedy. “It’s a source of deep national shame that one of our most precious cities still lies in ruins a year after a foreseeable event. People in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast have a right to ask: why is this taking so long? Congress has appropriated the funds for this restoration. But the Administration seems to care very little about creating a system to get New Orleans and the Gulf Coast up and running so that residents can come back. “Our nation must also ask itself: are we prepared for another Katrina-like event? I believe that the answer is no. I have not seen the widespread rethinking of our disaster-preparedness structures that I hoped to see in the wake of Katrina. This is a secondary failure in the response to Katrina by this Administration. It must be rectified. “We cannot afford to fail to rebuild the Gulf Coast and New Orleans . We cannot afford to be unprepared for another natural disaster. The time for action is now. We cannot let another year slip by.” ###
08.22.2006	Washington, DC – August 22, 2006— Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to the FBI late last week in response to recent revelations that the Puerto Rico field office destroyed certain records in the past. Serrano asked that the Bureau immediately suspend any further destruction of records. In 2000, Serrano and then-director Louis Freeh initiated a years-long effort to promote openness and accountability by the FBI in Puerto Rico. *** August 17, 2006 Robert S. Mueller, III, Director Federal Bureau of Investigation J. Edgar Hoover Building Dear Director Mueller: As you know, I and other members of the Puerto Rican community have been grateful for your continued cooperation in the initiative by your predecessor, Louis Freeh, to disclose files related to the Bureau’s actions against supporters of the Puerto Rican Independence Movement. These files have been invaluable in building the historical record of this dark period in our nation’s history, and it is my ongoing interest in this subject that inspires this letter. It has been brought to my attention that the San Juan field office destroyed certain records on the independence movement in February of 1989. This information came to light as the result of a Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act request by Jan Susler of the People’s Law Office. I write to request that, notwithstanding any standard procedure, you suspend any further destruction of records concerning organizations and individuals related to the Puerto Rican Independence Movement. I would also like to request documentation of the destruction of any such records to date, and their former locations before they were destroyed. Given the fact that the recent release of the Inspector General’s report on the Ojeda Ríos incident has done little to allay concerns about the Bureau’s modus operandi in Puerto Rico, I believe that the your continued commitment to the preservation and disclosure of these files will be essential to improving the Bureau’s image on the island. Thank you for your attention to these concerns. I look forward to continuing our cooperation on this matter. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
08.16.2006	Washington, DC , August 16, 2006— Congressman José E. Serrano responded today to a letter from the Columbia University School of Law Environmental Law Clinic asking the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation to close down the New York Organic Fertilizer (NYOFCO) plant in Hunts Point for repeated violations of its solid waste permit. Serrano restated his longstanding opposition to the NYOFCO facility, a publicly-supported private venture that “pelletizes“ up to two-thirds of New York city ’s sewage sludge. The NYOFCO plant is located at 1108 Oak Point Avenue, near the Hunts Point and Longwood residential areas. The letter, dated August 3rd, 2006, and written on behalf of the Law Clinic’s client, The Point Community Development Corporation (CDC), detailed repeated violations of NYOFCO’s solid waste permit and noted that the company’s permit from NYSDEC had in fact expired on January 20th, 2005, more than 18 months ago. Among the numerous violations cited by the law clinic were several documented instances of voluntary discharge of untreated sludge into the East River and the spilling of sludge into the streets surrounding the facility. These violations, documented by NYSDEC personnel, augment a long record of air quality complaints filed by residents about the plant since it began its operations over a decade ago. “I am deeply concerned about the ongoing and persistent problem of strong odors from the NYOFCO facility, and the potential threats to public health that prolonged exposure to these emissions may pose to our community,” Serrano said. “I have known for many years how NYOFCO has affected our air quality, but I had not fully understood the impact of the plant on our waterways until I saw The Environmental Law Clinic document, which documents spills into the East River and onto local roads. These incidents underscore NYOFCO’s utter disregard for safe sludge handling practices. “Given the series of fires and explosions at the plant in the summer of 2004, I am also concerned about both worker safety and the well-being of my constituents who live nearby. It is incumbent upon NYSDEC to fulfill its enforcement and oversight responsibility and ensure that these issues are fully addressed. Until NYOFCO comes into compliance and has a valid permit to operate, it should be shut down. “Finally, I would ask the NYSDEC convene an open public forum on NYOFCO’s solid waste permit application to provide my constituents with the opportunity to speak directly with DEC personnel about the enormous burdens this facility places on our community. “I would also like to recognize the work of several community groups over the years on this important issue. Among the leaders on this issue are The Point CDC, Mothers on the Move, Sustainable South Bronx, and the Hunts Point Awareness Committee. Without their hard work and persistence this problem would remain unaddressed in many ways, and would perhaps worsen. I salute their efforts to clean up the air in our neighborhoods.”
08.09.2006	Washington, DC , August 9, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano said many of his suspicions about the killing of Independentista Filiberto Ojeda Rios by the FBI were confirmed by the Inspector General’s report on the incident released today. The report “identified a number of deficiencies in the FBI’s conduct of the Ojeda surveillance and arrest operation.” It also “determined that a superior option was available to the FBI for attempting to arrest Ojeda” which would have had a far better chance of apprehending him without violence or his eventual death. “FBI Director Robert Mueller called me today to discuss this report,” Serrano said. “I reiterated to him my concern that the FBI in Puerto Rico seems to be unable to operate without generating controversy. I also expressed my belief that the FBI seems to act differently in Puerto Rico than anywhere else it operates and that changes need to be made.” “Overall, I am not surprised that the report found fault with the actions of the FBI as agents tried to arrest Ojeda Rios. Everyone who has followed this situation knows that there were serious flaws in the FBI’s planning and execution of its plan to arrest him. “The report also says there was no conspiracy to kill Ojeda Rios. But it also concludes that the FBI deviated substantially from its own procedures, which are in place to minimize risk to agents and avoid violent confrontations. I believe that if the FBI had followed procedures the three FBI agents might not have been shot and Ojeda Rios might not have died. “This bungled operation, combined with FBI agents’ later altercation with the members of the press in Rio Piedras, show that the FBI in Puerto Rico continues to suffer from a distinct lack of professionalism and demonstrates a callous attitude toward the local population. “Incidents of this nature in any other jurisdiction under the American flag would be a major scandal. Based on this report, I believe there is cause for serious changes at the FBI in Puerto Rico ." The Office of the Inspector General’s Report can be found at http://www.usdoj.gov/oig/special/s0608/full_report.pdf
08.02.2006	Washington, DC, August 2, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales yesterday, asking for increased enforcement of our nation’s hate crime laws during these times of Middle East tension, and especially in the anti-Semitic attack in Seattle . *** August 1, 2006 The Honorable Alberto R. Gonzales Attorney General Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530-0001 Dear Mr. Attorney General: As you are well aware, continuing violence and religious tensions in the Middle East have raised the specter of violent backlashes against Jewish Americans and Jewish organizations in our communities. This threat revealed itself last Friday in the form of the tragic shootings at the Jewish Federation of Greater Seattle and an arson attempt on a synagogue in Queens, New York . In order to clearly demonstrate that this government remains strongly committed to civil rights and religious freedoms, I urge the Justice Department to use all necessary tools available under federal hate crimes statutes to pursue the Seattle case. While the efforts of the Seattle Police Department and other local authorities have been laudable, I believe that bringing federal resources to bear on this case would send a strong signal nationwide that this government will not tolerate such abhorrent actions against innocent Americans. I further urge the FBI and the Department to aggressively investigate and prosecute any other credible allegations of hate crimes against Jewish Americans and Jewish community organizations. Thank you for your attention to these important concerns, and I look forward to working with you to secure the safety and civil rights of all Americans against the despicable reprisals of a hateful few. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
08.01.2006	Washington, DC, August 1, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano called on the Bush Administration to leave alone as that nation waits to see the outcome of Fidel Castro’s delicate surgery. “Should Fidel Castro ultimately be unable to continue to lead , we must leave the transition to the Cubans,” Serrano said. “The has no role to play in a post-Castro Cuban government. The Cubans themselves must make decisions about their future, free of threats and intervention from abroad. “It is important to remember, however, that there is no evidence that Fidel Castro will not recover from this surgery to continue to govern. The correct posture at this moment is to offer unconditional support to the Cubans if they face a transition. Such support would not push a certain transition path or another. “Unfortunately, I fear that the Bush Administration will not take this approach and instead will seek to destabilize . This Administration has bungled so many foreign policy questions, that I have no doubt their instincts and actions will be incorrect on this matter as well. Therefore, I call on them, as I have many times before, to leave alone.”
07.27.2006	Washington, DC, July 27, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano called on Republicans to bring a clean bill on raising the minimum wage to a vote this week—and to leave out unrelated issues. Republicans are rumored to be planning to load a bill on raising the minimum wage with ‘poison pills’ intended to kill the bill in a typical display of shameless partisanship. “The American people deserve a fair up-or-down vote on raising the minimum wage, period,” Serrano said. “I fear that Republicans are trying to score political points at the expense of lower-income working people across the nation. They should be ashamed of such a move. With the real value of the minimum wage at its lowest level in decades, it’s long past time to act.” “Like many of their other tactics designed to confuse the American people about their real priorities, this move will not work. The American people see through these types of election-year ploys. Republicans cannot hide from their record, however, of fiscal irresponsibility and woeful mismanagement of the government over the past five years. The minimum wage has not been raised since 1997. These anti-working class moves will catch up with the Republicans. “Give the American people what they ought to have: a fair vote on raising the paltry level of the minimum wage with no poison pills. Anything less is disgraceful.”
07.13.2006	Washington, DC – July 13, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano again called for the pullout of our troops in to prevent further casualties, and to cut our financial losses in the sands of . He released numbers showing the fiscal tradeoffs this war has caused our nation to make – citing the public services that could have been provided in the 16th Congressional District if we had not gone into . “The numbers speak for themselves,” Serrano said. “With the money spent in , we could have provided so many people here at home with a better life. My congressional district is the poorest in the nation, and the funds spent in could have lifted many people up and helped them to achieve the American Dream. Instead, we continue to bleed money and lose precious lives in a needless war. I cannot help but question our President’s priorities and his honesty with the American people.” The Iraq War has cost the 16th Congressional District some $407 million in tax dollars. Those funds, had they been spent instead here at home could have provided any of the following: 17,375 students could have been given 4-year university scholarships to a state school; 3,290 affordable housing units could have been constructed, (the construction of which would have created a further 1,546 jobs); 13,279 people could have received health care coverage for the length of the War; 1,849 public school teachers could have been hired for the length of the War; or 2301 police officers could have been hired for the length of the War. “As a nation, we must ask ourselves if continuing this war is worth it,” Serrano added. “Do we want to see more casualties and more suffering? Do we want to continue to send our tax dollars to a sandy quagmire? Do we want to continue to put our nation’s needs second to a war based on lies, deception, and misplaced priorities? I think the answer to all these questions is a resounding ‘NO.’ We must withdraw the troops as soon as possible and end this war.” ###
07.13.2006	Washington, DC – July 13, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano made the following statement in support of passing H.R. 9, the “Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006.” *** “I rise today in strong support of the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006.” “Mr. Speaker, this is an historic moment. I am honored to be on the floor of the House today as we take the next small step on the march toward equality that Rosa Parks and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., began just over half a century ago. “The Voting Rights Act is nothing less than the cornerstone of our commitment to government of the people, by the people, and for the people—all the people. For free peoples there is no right or duty more vital than the right to vote. By enacting the most significant civil rights statute in our nation’s history, Congress spoke loud and clear in 1965 that voting is a fundamental right of all American citizens. “The VRA made it the sacred duty of the federal government to enforce this right not only by protecting the individual voter, but also by evaluating the actual effects of voting law changes on minority influence. In so doing, the VRA created opportunities for members of all communities, regardless of race, color or creed, to serve their fellow citizens in government. “Today, we have the opportunity to take stock of the gains we have made and to reaffirm this country’s commitment to tackling the challenges that remain ahead. When President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the VRA in 1965, he said that “to seize the meaning of this day, we must recall darker times.” Unfortunately, those dark times are not completely behind us. Despite the steady progress of the last 41 years, there is very little doubt in my mind that we still very much need Section 5 and Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act, which would sunset if this Congress neglected to act. “For reminders that Dr. King’s march from darkness is not yet finished, we need only look to recent changes to maps and voting requirements in Texas and . The Supreme Court struck down portions of the new Texas Congressional map just two weeks ago, and a ruling on new discriminatory election practices in Georgia have seriously eroded the Justice Department’s ability to enforce Section 5. The bill before us today, thankfully, restores the statute to the original intent of Congress. “I should note that I represent a district covered by Section 5. Although the VRA was originally built upon the blood and activism of heroes who lived in a very different time, all of my constituents in my majority minority Congressional District have a greater voice in this country today because of their sacrifices. Therefore, my Latino constituents are keenly aware that Section 5 is as important to their political empowerment as the Section 203 requirement for certain jurisdictions to provide language assistance. “Now I am aware that there is a small minority of Members here today who will try to strike Section 203 from the reauthorization before us today. They will argue that providing language assistance at the polls somehow discourages immigrants from learning English. To this argument, I say first that I have never met any immigrant, much less one who became a citizen, who did not want to learn English or understand that learning English is their key to the American dream. In my city of New York , there are not enough English as a second language courses to go around for all the folks who want to take them. “Second, this argument ignores the fact that the majority of voters who utilize language assistance are natural born citizens. Persistent inequalities in our education systems see to it that even those who speak, read and write English in their everyday lives are not always equipped to deal with often complex ballot instructions. Section 203 is a measured, targeted solution that speaks to a principle that all Members of this body should agree on: that all eligible citizens, regardless of their access to education, have the right to cast an informed vote. “That is why we must renew Section 203, along with Section 5 and the other expiring provisions, without delay. “Twenty-five years from now, we may be able to file away voter discrimination, like slavery before it, as nothing more than a painful memory in our troubled past. “Twenty-five years from now, the conditions that drove Dr. King and others to begin their march may be nothing more than faint scuff marks on the boots of those of us who continued that march. “Twenty five years from now, we may live in a country in which no racism, no cultural intolerance and no partisan ambition will impel any American to attempt to strip any other American’s right to make his or her voice heard. “Twenty-five years from now, six decades after President Johnson declared with his pen that “there is no room for injustice anywhere in the American mansion,” we may finally be able to declare that we have completely banished discrimination from our democratic process. “But that day is not yet upon us, Mr. Speaker. For that reason, I applaud Chairman Sensenbrenner and Ranking Member Conyers for bringing this momentous renewal to the floor. “I also want to thank both of them for their receptiveness to the concerns of the Black, Hispanic and Asian members of this body, many of whom would not be in this House if not for the Voting Rights Act. “The version of the bill reported by the Judiciary Committee is a magnificent product of bipartisanship, and I strongly urge my colleagues to support it in its entirety and reject any amendments that would weaken the commitment of this Congress to civil rights. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker.”
07.10.2006	Washington, DC – July 10, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano responded to the latest report of the Bush Administration’s “Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba,” saying its recommendations “would be downright comical but for the potential for human suffering that they could cause.” “Bush’s Commission on seems to come out with a new report every time there is an upcoming election here in the ,” Serrano said. “They put these pie-in-the-sky anti-Cuba recommendations out which have no basis in fact or reality simply to please hardliners who support them politically. The recommendations would have little relevance to anything and be generally ignored if they were not such a colossal waste of taxpayers money, so imperialist in their tone and substance, and so callous with the rights of Americans.” “But the more ominous portion of today’s report is the sections that we all know exist, but were not made public: those that deal with a potential military intervention in . I fear that those plans could involve American military intervention in ’s internal affairs, which should not and cannot be part of any responsible American plan for future dealings with . We should be seeking to reassure the Cubans and the world that we have no intentions, and indeed no plans, to intervene in their nation. “In any transition scenario, we must respect ’s sovereignty and their right to determine their own future form of government. We have no direct role to play in that transition. Our role should be to keep our hands off , both now and in the future.”
06.30.2006	Washington, DC – June 30, 2006–Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Dominican flag will fly into space tomorrow on board the Space Shuttle Discovery. Space Shuttle Discovery is scheduled to take off on Saturday, July 1, at approximately 3:49 PM from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida , subject to weather. “I am glad that this wonderful occasion is almost upon us,” Serrano said. “It is a very fitting tribute for all that the Dominican people have done for the both as citizens and as a neighboring nation. The flag representing their identity deserves this honor. I look forward to a safe and successful shuttle flight with this flag on board.” Upon its return to earth, Congressman Serrano plans to place the flag on permanent display at Hostos Community College in the Bronx . The Dominican flag will be placed alongside the Puerto Rican flag, which made this same flight a few years ago.
06.29.2006	Washington, DC – June 29, 2006 – Yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano successfully defended funding for the Arthur Avenue Retail Market and the Bronx Council on the Arts during debate over the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies (SSJC) Appropriations bill. A congressman from Arizona attempted to remove the funding for these projects from the bill. These attempts failed by overwhelming votes of 76-345 and 74-343, respectively. “I am proud to help bring federal dollars to the Bronx- and to these important small business entities,” Congressman Serrano said. “The Arthur Avenue Retail Market is an important small business incubator and historic landmark that helps small merchants to achieve economic prosperity. At the same time, the Bronx Council on the Arts is helping artists to start their own small businesses and provide skills development for small businesses dealing with the arts. The funding for these entities will help ensure that the economic rebirth of the Bronx continues, and that these important organizations can help our small businesses to grow and to thrive.” The Arthur Avenue Retail Market was built by Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia in 1940 to house street vendors whose businesses were overcrowding the sidewalks of the Belmont section of the Bronx . The Bronx Council on the Arts is a non-profit organization that is the official cultural agency of Bronx County . It helps to nurture the development of artists and cultural organizations in the Bronx . The funding for both projects was in the Small Business Administration portion of the SSJC bill. “Both the Arthur Avenue Retail Market and the Bronx Council on the Arts are helping to bring good jobs back to the Bronx ,” said Serrano. “Through these votes, Congress has overwhelmingly chosen to help continue that process.” ### Congressman Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee.
06.20.2006	Washington, DC – June 20, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano offered an amendment that restored $10 million in funding for the Census Bureau’s Survey of Income and Program Participation program. The amendment was agreed to without objections by the full Appropriations Committee during its consideration of the annual Science, State, Justice and Commerce funding bill. “I am glad that the Appropriations Committee agreed with me that we had to preserve the SIPP program,” Serrano said. “The information that it provides is vital in evaluating the results of our government programs. To do away with the program would have been both short-sighted and counterproductive. I plan to work to ensure that this funding stays in the final version of the bill.” The SIPP is the only survey that records the impact of state and federal government programs on the well-being of American families nationwide, and had been slated for elimination next year by the Administration purely because of budgetary considerations. The Census Bureau originally planned to replace it in 2012. Immediate elimination would have left many agencies without essential information on the impact of their programs. SIPP informs our policies across multiple federal agencies. The following are a few examples of how its data are used. The Food and Nutrition Service of the Department of Agriculture keeps track of the food stamp program using SIPP data. There is no other data source that covers the nationwide scope that USDA needs. The Department of Health and Human Services uses SIPP data to analyze what drives people onto or off the welfare rolls. It also uses SIPP to ascertain how disabilities and other conditions affect Americans. The Social Security Administration uses SIPP data to predict the effects of changing program requirements, including charting income trends as baby boomers begin to retire. Other SIPP users within the federal government include the Department of Labor, and the Small Business Administration. “My amendment will allow the Census Bureau to proceed with SIPP instead of having it shut down,” Serrano said. “That is undoubtedly a good thing. We need this data—many programs depend on it. I commend my colleagues for seeing this, and moving without partisanship to fix this funding issue.”
06.15.2006	Washington, DC – June 15, 2006 – Today the House of Representatives debated the conflict—a war and occupation that Congressman José E. Serrano opposed from its inception. The following is the text of his remarks. *** June 15, 2006 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about , a failure built on the lies of this Administration. I am opposed to H. Res. 861, because contrary to what it states in this resolution, I believe that it is in the best interest of the to bring our troops home now. I voted against our involvement in , and I have opposed funding the conflict. For years, I have been calling for the return of our soldiers. This war has been a mistake, and our continued participation will not change this basic fact. I have the utmost respect for our former Secretary of State Colin Powell. He was a truly outstanding Secretary of State. However, I will never forget how this great American was sent to the United Nations to sell a fabrication and to convince the world that this was a just endeavor with what we all now know was deliberately falsified evidence. This was just one part of a continuous effort to deceive the American public into believing that a conflict, that even many in our military had misgivings about, was the right thing for our nation to do. The image of our President standing on the aircraft carrier and proclaiming “mission accomplished” is one that I continue to associate with this failed effort. Since that fabricated public relations moment, both our nation and the nation of have suffered great personal loss. The American public no longer supports our involvement in , and we as their representatives, must respect their wishes and bring our troops home. I am saddened and heartbroken when I think about how many brave young men and women have died in this conflict that was never in our nation’s interest. Many of these courageous young soldiers who have lost their lives came from the Bronx , from my own community, and so it is partly on their behalf that I believe I am now speaking. Too many American soldiers have died, too many innocent Iraqi civilians have suffered and lost their lives, and too many reporters have been killed – all as a result of this failed policy. As I thought about what I wanted to say on the floor today, I went back to the remarks that I spoke on this floor on October 9, 2002, when this House was voting on the authorization for the use of military force against . At that time I certainly couldn’t anticipate what the conditions would be now in June of 2006. However, I said at the time, “When we engage as a nation in a unilateral military action against an Arab Nation, an action that our allies are cautioning against, how will the be viewed in the Arab world? Perhaps the result will be an increase in Al Qaeda’s membership and a renewed hatred toward Americans.” I think that this has come true and that our image as a nation has certainly been tarnished as a result of this conflict. I regret that – because I know that we live in a nation that does not want to be seen as an enemy by those who live in Arab nations. What has also come true is that Al Qaeda continues to flourish and to find new recruits as a direct result of our nation’s actions in . Although Al Qaeda had at most a negligible presence in before this conflict, it is now a well established force there. For every terrorist that our nation works so hard to capture, another one is motivated to join out of hate for our nation’s involvement in . This conflict has resulted in worldwide images that I doubt our nation can ever overcome. The pictures associated with the Abu Ghraib prison scandal are firmly etched on the minds of our next generation of youth around the world. Although soldiers of low rank were prosecuted for these atrocities, our leaders at the top never took responsibility. Now an investigation is being conducted into our activities at Haditha, where it seems as though innocent civilians died. These actions are all a direct result of a failed policy and have come at great cost to our image in the world. No longer do nations look at us as the ultimate protector of human rights. As everyone here knows, I am a part of the city that was a target on September 11th. When this Congress was debating the resolution on the use of force against , I did not believe at the time that in attacking our country was taking the right course, and I didn’t know what words to use that would change the step towards war that our nation seemed so determined to take. I was filled with emotion and I ended my speech that night by saying, “I cannot agree with the course that our great nation is embarking on, one that brings the threat of war closer and the goal of peace further away.” So now once again we in Congress are debating this war. However, now we have the perspective of time and we can look at all that happened in , the suffering and the failures, as an unfortunate part of our nation’s history. As I once again struggle to find the words that can bring this conflict to an end – I am again filled with emotion. Let us bring our brave American soldiers home now and let us once again embrace the goal of peace.
06.13.2006	Washington, DC-Reps. John E. Sweeney (R-Clifton Park), Joe Crowley (D-Queens & the Bronx), Jose Serrano (D-Bronx), and Sherwood Boehlert (R-New Hartford) today announced their success in keeping $132 million for the purchase of newer, safer, and cleaner buses for New York City that will be manufactured in Upstate New York. The funds were previously allocated to New York City Department of Transportation through grants from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), but due to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (MTA) acquisition of certain NYC bus lines, this transfer of funds was required. If the New York delegation did not take action the funds would have been lost. The transfer for funds was maintained in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery for Fiscal Year 2006, legislation that was passed by the House today. “The simple fact that these bus lines changed hands from NYC to MTA, is not an excuse for critical funds to be lost, Rep. John Sweeney said. “ New York has already taken a hit on homeland security funds and we don’t need another hit. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I was pleased to be able to work in a bi-partisan manner with my colleagues to do the right thing for New York and I will continue to do all I can to ensure that our City and State are protected at the federal level.” “With these additional funds, New Yorkers will enjoy more reliable bus services and better accessibility to the city’s widely used public transit system. I am proud to work with my colleagues in a bi-partisan way to help ensure efficient public transportation for New York residents who rely on the MTA to commute daily between their work and homes,” said " New York City relies on public transportation to a degree not seen in other American cities," Rep. Jose Serrano said. "We cannot afford to have vital funds cut that are meant to keep our infrastructure up-to-date. Our local economy depends on it. I am very glad that the time and energy that my colleagues and I put into the effort to save our MTA bus funds were successful." “Once again, we have proven our ability to deliver for the State of New York ,” Rep. Sherwood Boehlert said. “Together, we’ve ensured that much needed funds will be go to New York City for the purchase of safer, environmentally friendly buses. This seamless transition of funding will also protect an existing contract with Orion Bus Industries and maintain hundreds of jobs in Upstate New York.” The Conference Report on H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery for Fiscal Year 2006 must now be passed by the Senate and sent to the President.
06.09.2006	Who: Congressman José E. Serrano, Mr. Orlando Marin -“The Last Mambo King” When: Saturday, June 10th, 12p.m. Where: Office of Congressman José E. Serrano - 16th Congressional District 788 Southern Blvd. Bronx, NY 718-620-0084 What: Congressman Jose E. Serrano will honor Puerto Rican musical great Orlando Marin, also known as “The Last Mambo King,” this Saturday, June 10th, at 12 p.m. Marin’s outstanding music is appreciated not only by the denizens of New York’s traditional Latin dance venues, but also by non–Latin fans the world over. Serrano will honor him for both his remarkable music and his willingness to devote time to helping the less fortunate.
06.07.2006	Washington, DC – June 7, 2006 – In an exchange on the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday, Congressman José E. Serrano and Rep. John Sweeney received a commitment from the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Harold Rogers (R-KY), to hold hearings on the cuts to New York ’s portion of Homeland Security funding for high-threat urban areas. Serrano sits on the same subcommittee, which oversees all funding for the Department of Homeland Security. The official transcript of the exchange follows. Rep. Rogers’ commitment comes in the last paragraph. *** Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield? Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky . I yield to the gentleman from New York . Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, first, I want to thank the chairman and ranking member again for their hard work on this bill. The challenges of this bill and this subcommittee include not only setting these essential priorities for our country's security, but also keeping a close watch on the Department to make sure that those priorities are carried out and that the resources provided are well spent. Chairman Rogers and Mr. Sabo have done a great job on both accounts, and it is in recognition of their past vigilance that we now raise our concern. As my friend from New York mentioned, last week the Office of Grants and Training, and I should note that this office has changed management and changed names twice in 3 years, announced the State allocations under the Urban Areas Security Initiative. The allocation for the State of New York through this program is 42 percent less than its allocation from last year. Mr. Chairman, we all know that the process for distributing these funds is a complicated one, but here is also what I know. I know that New York City remains the highest density urban area in the country and by far dedicates more of its own funds to fighting terrorism than any other municipality. I also know that New York City continues to be the financial center of the country. It is the site of Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium, the site of the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty, and the former site of the World Trade Center . I know that as the Department is still working out its processes for determining risk and threat, there is much room for error. I would ask the chairman of the subcommittee if he shares my concerns and if he would be willing to hold additional hearings into this matter to make sure that every homeland security dollar is protecting as many Americans as possible. Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky . I thank the gentleman for his comments. I understand the concerns of both gentlemen from New York , both very valued, hardworking members of the subcommittee, I might add. I agree that the subcommittee should hold further hearings into this matter. We will be working to set up a closed briefing because we are dealing with classified material here. We will work with the gentlemen to set up a closed hearing to further look into the matter. --published in the Congressional Record, June 6, 2006
06.06.2006	Who: The Office of José E. Serrano, local Puerto Rican artist Teresa Perez When: Wednesday, June 7, 2006 5:30 p.m. Where: Office of Congressman José E. Serrano - 16th Congressional District 788 Southern Blvd. Bronx, NY 718-620-0084 What: The Office of Congressman Jose E. Serrano will honor South Bronx artist Teresa Perez at a reception in the Congressman’s district office on Wednesday evening, June 7th, at 5:30 PM, as part of its celebration of National Puerto Rican Day Parade Week. Ms. Perez, a painter and mixed-media artist, captures images of the Puerto Rican experience and diaspora. Twenty-five of her paintings will be on display in the Congressman’s office through September 12th.
06.01.2006	Washington, DC – June 1, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed outrage at the cuts to New York’s Homeland Security grants for the coming year, calling the changed allocations “problematic at best and unsafe at worst.” Under the new funding rules, New York faces a $114 million drop in total funding. It also would see its Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) or “high threat” funding reduced by close to $93 million. “Under no circumstances should New York’s funding be cut relative to other cities,” Serrano said. “It has been the target of more than one terrorist attack, and continues to be threatened. I have not been given an adequate explanation of why this has been done, and I will be demanding answers along with my New York colleagues. “These funding amounts should not be tinkered with year after year. Local and state officials need to be able to plan on certain amounts of money, so they can budget accordingly. But above all funding must be based on our best idea of the threat posed to each city. “Along with my New York colleagues I will be seeking to remedy this situation and restore New York’s share of these funds to their proper levels. This morning I signed a letter with much of the rest of the New York delegation asking Secretary Michael Chertoff for a meeting with us on this issue.”
05.31.2006	The Bronx, NY – May 31, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano applauded New York City’s decision to maintain the privacy of immigrants seeking healthcare. According to the New York Times, the “city's Health and Hospitals Corporation and the mayor's office said yesterday that they were taking aggressive steps to reassure immigrants that no one will question their status when they seek care at New York City's public hospitals.” “This is a step in the right direction,” Congressman Serrano said. “Immigrants should not be driven away from healthcare by the fear that they will be deported. I applaud the Mayor and his staff involved in this decision for their commitment to basic human rights. The decision is really a defense of civil society against the xenophobic anti-immigrant sentiments sweeping over the nation. New York City is truly a leader in this decision and I would urge other cities to follow its lead.” "In the middle of this heated debate it is refreshing to see an administration do the right thing and stand up for the rights of the disenfranchised,” Senator Serrano said. “It is important for lawmakers to remember the human faces that are at the core of the immigration issue. Hopefully this step will encourage those living in the shadows to cease living in fear when it comes to their health. Healthcare is a right that is inherent to all regardless of legal status, color, or creed.”
05.22.2006	The Bronx , NY – May 22, 2006 – This morning, Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the Dominican flag will fly into space on the next NASA space shuttle flight. On hand for the announcement were Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, Councilman Miguel Martinez, and other local Dominican leaders. “I am very glad that NASA agreed to my request to take the Dominican flag into space on the shuttle in July,” Serrano said. “It is a very fitting honor for all that the Dominican people have done for the both as citizens and as a neighboring nation. Their contributions in the arts, literature, sports, and culture cannot be overlooked, especially in a city like New York . The flag representing their identity deserves this honor.” “I am also very happy that my friends and colleagues, Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat and Councilman Miguel Martinez were able to join me for this announcement. I salute them for their bold and positive leadership in the Dominican community. “I intend to place the flag on permanent display at Hostos Community College in the Bronx along with the Puerto Rican flag that made this same flight a few years ago. I hope that all Dominican and Puerto Rican people who see the flags there will feel a sense of pride and honor at the symbol of their communities’ achievements.”
05.19.2006	Washington, DC – May 19, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano introduced a bill yesterday requesting that the National Park Service study how the site of the General Slocum disaster could fit into the national park system. The site encompasses both the shoreline at Oak Point in the South Bronx and North Brother Island in the East River and would memorialize the 1000+ victims of the General Slocum steamship disaster in 1904. “As the site of the most tragic disaster before September 11th, the area where the General Slocum burned and sank deserves to be commemorated appropriately,” Serrano said. “I have asked for this study because I believe that we must not forget the tragedies of generations past. This disaster devastated a neighborhood and a community, and captured national attention. The site should have been preserved long ago—but now we have our chance and I don’t believe we should let that slip away.” Serrano introduced the bill, H.R. 5423, or the “General Slocum Memorial Study Act of 2006” with co-sponsoring Representatives Joe Crowley, Maurice Hinchey, Steve Israel, Carolyn Maloney and Major Owens. “The General Slocum disaster killed thousands and dramatically altered the social fabric of our city,” Congresswoman Maloney said. “Virtually everyone who lived in the German community on the Lower East Side lost someone or knew someone who had perished in the disaster, and few could bear to remain in a neighborhood that had witnessed such suffering. Within six years, most families had left the neighborhood, many of them moving uptown where they created a flourishing community in Yorkville. The New Yorkers who perished aboard the General Slocum deserve a proper memorial. I thank Congressman Serrano for his leadership on this issue and for his dedication to informing future generations of New Yorkers about their city’s history.” On June 15, 1904, the General Slocum loaded 1,300 New Yorkers from the Lower East Side to take them to a picnic at Locust Grove on the Long Island Sound. As the ship steamed up the East River , a fire broke out in the boiler room. As the fire worsened, the captain of the ship beached it on North Brother Island . Immediately, small boats and people from the Bronx side of the East River along with members of the staff at the sanatorium on North Brother Island began a rescue operation. Unfortunately, due to rotting life jackets and insufficient life rafts, the vast majority of the people on board the ship died. The people aboard were from the “Little Germany” neighborhood on the Lower East Side . With 1000+ victims, virtually everyone in the neighborhood was affected. The disaster decimated the neighborhood and it never recovered.
05.19.2006	Washington, DC – May 19, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano denounced the Republican-led votes in the Senate last night that designated English as the national language, saying the measure was “divisive” and “unnecessary.” He also took the opportunity to draw attention to his “English Plus Resolution,” which recognizes the value of multilingualism. “Giving in to linguistic isolationism does nothing more than further isolate us in this vast multi-cultural world,” Serrano said. “We should be encouraging proficiency in other languages at the same time as we offer opportunities to learn English. Our nation is strengthened by diversity, not weakened by it. My bill would increase access to English as a second language classes – a real solution to linguistic barriers rather than meaningless declarations. It would also recognize multilingualism as a national resource.” “Our nation is competing against nations who teach their children second languages in primary school, and third languages by the end of secondary school. We must recognize that embracing the treasure of native bi- and tri-lingualism is an asset in today’s world. “I deeply regret that the Senate decided to go down the path of xenophobia-tinged cultural statements. It does not honor our nation’s multilingual past, nor does it help us prepare for the inevitable multilingual future.”
05.17.2006	Washington, DC – May 17, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano denounced the Republican budget resolution, calling it “irresponsible and misguided.” Republicans are expected to bring the resolution to a vote tonight. “The Republicans’ budget is out of touch with basic American values and is fiscally irresponsible,” Serrano said. “It deepens the deficit with tax cuts for the richest people in the nation. It cuts social programs for the most disadvantaged. And it values wealth over work and special interests over the middle class.” “During their years in power, the Republicans have ravaged our nation’s finances—piling trillions of dollars of debt on our children and grandchildren. This budget follows that pattern. The fiscal recklessness must end. “The Republicans’ mean-spirited, unequal and unfair budgets will come back to haunt them. Polls show that the American people are ready for the government to be in the hands of fiscally-responsible party. The Republicans are completely out-of-touch with basic American values of responsibility and fairness. “I will vote against the Republican budget because I know that a better future would come from better choices and better leadership.”
05.16.2006	The Bronx , NY – May 16, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano lauded the opening of the new Pfizer Plant Research Laboratory at the New York Botanical Gardens today as a great investment in R&D in The Bronx. “The New York Botanical Garden is taking a giant step forward with the opening of their new plant research center,” Congressman José E. Serrano said. “I am so pleased to have been able to secure funds over the years for this project, because it helps move the Botanical Garden into the 21st century and will bring world-class plant and biodiversity research to my home borough. “The Bronx is rapidly transforming itself into an international hub for scientific research and the Botanical Garden is at the very center of that change. I am certain that job creation and economic development will follow, and my borough's reputation as a hothouse for innovation and new ideas will only be strengthened. “This breathtaking center is a new addition to the Garden, but understanding the intricacies of plants and the natural world has always been central to the Garden’s mission. I know that the new laboratory will help this vital Bronx institution meet the challenges of the new century even as the Garden remains faithful to its founding principles of discovering and documenting Earth’s vast biodiversity.” Since 1999, Congressman Serrano has directed over $9.5 million in funding to The New York Botanical Garden for plant research. “We are losing the R & D race to science powerhouses like and , which invest deeply in basic research,” Serrano added. “This is an investment in the intellectual infrastructure of our nation which adds to our economic security. The next great class of pharmaceuticals will come from this type of research, which is why Pfizer invested in this project. It is exactly the type of strategic investment our nation needs to make in basic research and I am proud to have been a part of it.”
05.05.2006	The Bronx , NY – May 5, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano honored the contributions of Mexican-Americans and Mexican immigrants in celebration of Cinco de Mayo. Serrano joined Mexican-American community service organization Asociación Tepeyac in a commemoration in the 16th Congressional District. “I would like to pay tribute to the contributions of Mexican-Americans to this nation and renew my commitment to standing against the xenophobia, cynicism, and narrow-mindedness of the anti-immigrant lobby,” Serrano said. “I also would like to pay tribute to important organizations such as Tepeyac who work tirelessly on behalf of Mexican immigrants who come to this country in search of a better life.” “Nearly 200,000 people of Mexican descent now live in New York City alone. In the South Bronx , Mexican immigrants continue to play a significant role in transforming the Mott Haven area. This neighborhood, once marred by abandoned row houses and vacant storefronts, is now a vibrant urban center for New York Mexicans, who are revitalizing this part of the South Bronx . “As the 109th Congress continues to debate legislation that will affect the lives of immigrants, it is important for us to remember that we are a nation of immigrants. Anti-immigration zealots seem to think that undocumented immigrants come to this nation to take advantage of our social programs, and thus work to keep immigrants away from these programs. But their reasons for enduring the hardships of leaving home and coming to the United States are the same as those reasons that inspired many of our ancestors, —the search for the fabled American dream for themselves, their children, and their grandchildren. “Cinco de Mayo is a special day, and I’m proud to represent so many great Mexican-Americans in the 16th Congressional District. I am glad they are here in the , making it a better place for all.”
05.05.2006	The Bronx , NY – May 5, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano awarded certificates of recognition to the undefeated national junior college basketball champion Monroe College Lady Mustangs and also honored the accomplishments of the men’s team. On Saturday, March 18, the Lady Mustangs (36-0) beat Mohawk Valley Community College (MVCC) 100-70 to become the 2006 National Junior College Athletic Association, Division III National Champions. Monroe ’s men’s team, led by Coach Jeff Brustad, also had a successful season, compiling a record of 35-5 and finishing 8th in the national tournament. “The success that these young ladies enjoyed on the court is not only a reflection of their skills with a basketball, but more importantly, a reflection of their character,” Serrano said. “To reach the level of competition that they have achieved, one must acquire certain qualities that will not only help in sports but in life as well; qualities such as discipline, patience, and perseverance. While I am excited that they have proved to be champions on the court, I am more excited to know that they have developed the necessary skills to become champions in life.” “I want to compliment everyone associated with Monroe College Women’s and Men’s Basketball for the courage and class they exhibited throughout the entire season. Athletics is about much more than winning. It is about learning how to work with others to overcome adversity. The men’s and women’s basketball programs have shown that they have learned this valuable lesson. I am very proud of Monroe Basketball for the great strides it has made in the pursuit of excellence. May these programs continue to serve as an example of what heights can be reached when you combine patience, hard work, and dedication.”
05.04.2006	Who: Rep. Jose Serrano, Asociación Tepeyac, various community leaders When: Friday, May 5, 2006 4:00 – 5:00 pm Where: Office of Congressman Jose E. Serrano - 16th Congressional District 788 Southern Blvd. Bronx, NY 718-620-0084 What: Congressman Serrano will celebrate Cinco De Mayo and salute the many important contributions that Mexican-Americans have made in the South Bronx and across the nation with leading Mexican-American service agency, Asociación Tepeyac. Tepeyac runs educational programs, provides access to computers, immigration assistance, youth leadership development programs, and many other activities. ### Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990.
05.04.2006	Who:Rep. Jose Serrano National Champion Monroe Lady Mustangs – players and coaches District Champion Monroe Mustangs – players and coaches What: Congressman Serrano will be presenting official congressional recognition and certificates to the two Monroe basketball teams in honor of their outstanding seasons. The Lady Mustangs were 36-0 National Champions and the 33-5 District III Champion Mustangs finished 8th in the national tournament. When: Friday, May 5, 2006 1:00-2:00pm Where: Office of Congressman Jose E. Serrano - 16th Congressional District 788 Southern Blvd. The Bronx, NY 718-620-0084
05.02.2006	Washington, DC – May 2, 2006 – In response to the New York City Department of Corrections’ plan to build a $375 million, 2,000 bed prison on the 28 acre Oak Point site, Congressman José E. Serrano voiced deep concerns in a letter to Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Serrano said that he had “serious concerns as to the scale and nature of the project, as well as the absence of input from community groups in the area.” The proposed facility would be located in the southern part of Serrano’s 16th Congressional District. The following is the text of the letter to Mayor Bloomberg: *** April 28, 2006 The Honorable Michael R. Bloomberg Mayor of the City of New York City Hall 52 Chambers Street New York, New York 10007-1222 Dear Mayor Bloomberg: I write to you once again regarding a significant parcel of land within my Congressional District, lot 174 in block 2604, a 28 acre site on the East River coastline, commonly known as the Oakpoint or Britestarr Homes site. This area, situated between the neighborhoods of Hunts Point, Mott Haven, and Port Morris, can play a critical role in the revitalization of the southern tier of my district. Its size will enable it to accommodate multiple beneficial uses, while its waterfront location, century-old granite piers, proximity to major nodes on the proposed South Bronx greenway, and centrality to an important and tragic chapter in the history of New York all lend significance to this long neglected site. I understand that a 2,000 bed correctional facility is now under consideration for this site. I am concerned that this is neither the highest nor the best use for this property and that this conclusion was reached with little or no consultation with either local elected officials or community groups active in that section of my district. Further, I am troubled by the scale of this project, which suggests that my district and my borough are once again being asked to shoulder far more than their fair share of unwanted municipal infrastructure. A proliferation of noxious municipal uses, including a sewage pelletizer and a sludge de-watering facility, has already proven a significant deterrent to the redevelopment of abandoned industrial sites along the adjacent waterfront. This section of my district-Hunts Point & Oakpoint-- is also the host community for a prison barge and juvenile detention facility. The history of this site is also compelling--on June 15, 1904, more than 1,000 German immigrants and their children lost their lives when their steamship, the General Slocum, burst into flames several hundred yards due south of the Oakpoint site and came aground on nearby North Brother Island. Hundreds of bodies were brought ashore at Oakpoint, where rescue teams were hastily assembled. The General Slocum disaster was the most deadly peacetime maritime disaster in American history and, until September 11th, 2001, the greatest single loss of life in the history of New York . I once again ask that the City think carefully about the significance of the Oakpoint site, consult with my constituents and engage them in a community planning process to determine the best use for this, the largest undeveloped parcel in the 16th Congressional district. This is especially important to me in light of the nearly $300,000 in federal funds I have helped secure for local groups to study potential reuses for this and other brownfield sites in the Hunts Point, Port Morris, and Mott Haven communities. Your administration is well-positioned to finally resolve the issues that have blocked proper development of this site for two decades and prudently guide a collaborative planning process. The future of Oak Point represents an enormous opportunity for the City to imaginatively and simultaneously address local economic development, open space, and environmental concerns with a visionary and responsive plan for the site's clean-up and redevelopment. The siting of large prison on this parcel seems merely the end of a race to the bottom, rather than the product of careful thinking and consultation with others. The borough equity concerns and historical significance considerations I have raised only underscore the importance of engaging local residents and their electeds in decisions affecting their neighborhood. I am confident that such an approach will yield a mutually acceptable outcome for the City, for my borough, and for my constituents. José E. Serrano Member of Congress
05.01.2006	WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano to join immigrants’ rights protesters in their human chain today. WHEN: 12:16 p.m., Monday, May 1, 2006 WHERE: Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse, The Bronx , NY. and the Grand Concourse, The Bronx , NY. and the Grand Concourse, The Bronx , NY. Congressman Serrano will join protesters forming a human chain in defense of immigrants’ rights today, as part of the nationwide boycott. Serrano is a staunch supporter of creating paths to legalize the undocumented immigrants in our nation, and has worked against unfair and mean-spirited efforts to criminalize them. He recently introduced a bill called “The Child Citizen Protection Act,” which would give immigration judges discretion in deportation cases where a child citizen was involved.
04.21.2006	Washington, DC – April 21, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement to commemorate the 36th Earth Day, which is tomorrow, Saturday, April 22. He also urged a renewed dedication to reducing our impact on the environment; preserving and restoring natural spaces; and finding a solution to global warming. “Our environment protects and sustains us,” Serrano said. “We must treat it with the care and respect that it deserves, because with a ruined environment, our future is far less bright. On Earth Day we reflect on our planet’s health, and also renew our pledge to care for the environment. It is also a day of action, as people around the globe take the day to clean up and restore their natural surroundings. “But one day a year is not enough. We must have a dedication to the environment every day of the year. And we must have leadership that helps us to care for the earth. For five long years, the Bush Administration has dragged its feet, claiming that more study was needed to validate global warming. But the science is clear and the time to act is now. Our government must lead the way on this problem of global proportions. It is our duty and our moral obligation. The planet cannot wait. “On a more local level, we are making progress. For instance, just a month ago we celebrated an environmental victory in the Bronx . We released 200 herring into a restored Bronx River . For a generation or more the Bronx River had been a dumping ground and a dead zone for wildlife. But today, that situation is reversed. It has become an urban oasis, a refuge from the concrete and steel of the city for both wildlife and people. “The release of the fish symbolized the revitalization of the Bronx River . It showcased what a dedicated group of government officials, local groups, and private citizens can do to clean and restore the environment. It was a very proud moment. “On this 36th Earth Day, I pledge to do everything in my power to preserve, protect and restore the environment, both in my Congressional District and around the globe.”
04.21.2006	Washington, DC – April 21, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano questioned the timing of the Department of Homeland Security raids targeting illegal immigrants and their employers. Serrano called the timing “clearly political” and wrote a letter to DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff asking him to suspend the raids. The text of the letter is below. “When I learned of these raids, I was taken aback,” Serrano said. “They have not vigorously enforced this law in years, and suddenly, while the nation is in the midst of a heated immigration debate, they begin raids? That is suspect in my judgment. Moreover, I believe that the timing could have been calculated to intimidate immigrants and their supporters, just when they were finding their political voice. These raids must be suspended.” “In a strange way, however, the raids send a message to some of the most influential people in Republican circles: business owners. They know that both their businesses and our economy depend on immigrants and the labor they provide. They should pressure the Republican Party to ignore their nativist, xenophobic wing and pass an immigration reform bill that allows a reasonable and fair route to legalization for undocumented immigrants.” *** The following is the text of the letter to DHS Secretary Chertoff: April 21, 2006 Secretary Michael Chertoff Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Mr. Secretary: I am writing to express my concern about the timing of the recent raids your Department conducted at several workplaces throughout the country including in Albany, NY . As you are well aware, right now throughout the we are witnessing massive rallies by our immigrant communities and others in support of an expansion of immigrant rights. The timing of these raids raises questions of intimidation. The Senate, as early as this coming Monday, may resume its debate on comprehensive immigration reform. The legislative process, which potentially will result in a path to legalization for our undocumented workers, should be allowed to move forward. As a senior Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I would appreciate your comments on why the Department is conducting these raids in the midst of immigration demonstrations and the Senate debate. Certainly your Department has enforcement responsibility, but why was this particular time chosen to conduct the raids? I am concerned that the timing of these raids is an attempt to unduly influence the debate that is going on in Congress. Furthermore, I am sure you are aware that this coming Wednesday the U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments in a case in which one current and three former employees of Georgia-based Mohawk Industries Inc. have filed a class action lawsuit against the firm, alleging it knowingly hired hundreds of illegal immigrants to suppress legal workers' wages (No. 05–465.) Mohawk Industries, Inc. v. Shirley Williams, et al. Even though the Supreme Court will focus only on whether a company and its agents can be considered a racketeering enterprise under civil provisions of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, many legal experts agree that the decision will set precedents for how the country deals with immigration. At this stage the right and moral thing to do is to suspend these raids immediately and let the United States Congress complete its work. I look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
04.18.2006	Washington, DC – April 18, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano is the most politically influential Puerto Rican in the United States outside of Puerto Rico, according to a survey by the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy. Additionally, the vast majority of those surveyed supported Serrano’s proposal that Puerto Ricans born on the island but living in the United States be allowed to vote in any plebiscite on Puerto Rico’s political status. “It is a genuine honor to be singled out by the Puerto Rican community as the most influential Puerto Rican person in the ,” Serrano said. “I have always worked to improve the lives of Puerto Ricans both here and on the island and the real reward comes in seeing the progress our community is making. I hope that my accomplishments will be small in comparison to those of leaders to come.” “I am very glad to be able to help lead on issues affecting Puerto Rico ’s political status. I have always said that I am in favor of any option that does not continue the current colonial status. I have also always thought that the people who moved from the island should have a voice in any final status arrangements, and it’s very heartening to see that so many of my fellow U.S.-residing Boricuas agree.” Born in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico on October 24, 1943, Serrano moved to the Bronx with his family when he was a young boy. He grew up in Millbrook Houses in Mott Haven and attended local public schools. He was elected to the New York State Assembly in 1974. After 16 years in the State Assembly, Serrano won a special election to the U.S. House of Representatives in March 1990. He has continued to represent the Bronx from its Sixteenth Congressional District since then. Serrano is now the most senior Member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent and the longest-serving elected official in the history of The Bronx.
04.12.2006	Washington, DC – April 12, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano reiterated his opposition to any criminalization of undocumented immigrants today, saying any plans to do so were “mean-spirited” and “contrary to traditional American values.” Media reports today say the Congressional Republican leadership is planning to drop provisions which would make undocumented immigrants felons for their entry. However, they appear to still be considering whether to classify it as a misdemeanor. “If the Republicans are serious about dropping the mean-spirited provisions contained in the House version of the bill, it could be positive step,” Congressman Serrano said. “But the fact remains that the majority of the House Republicans voted to include these provisions in the first place and continue to consider making undocumented entry a misdemeanor. That would be wrong. Republicans should listen to the many voices of the immigrant population, many of whom spoke out this week in rallies around the country. Like that community’s members, I strongly oppose any legislation that criminalizes immigrants, and does not provide a non-punitive path to citizenship. “The people who have recently come to this country to work and better their lives should be given the same opportunities that our parents, grandparents, and ancestors were given. One of the signs that I saw at the New York rally on Monday said ‘Did the Pilgrims need a green card?’ I couldn’t agree more with that sentiment. We must honor our country’s tradition of openness and continue to welcome new immigrants.”
04.06.2006	Washington, DC, April 6, 2006—Today Congressmen José E. Serrano (D-NY16) and Anthony Weiner (D-NY9) introduced a new bill to fight hunger and malnutrition in . The Anti-Hunger Empowerment Act of 2006 would authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to award grants to community-based and faith-based nonprofit feeding groups to establish a pilot program to improve their ability to serve disadvantaged populations. The bill would also require the USDA to work to improve states’ enrollment of eligible food stamp recipients. “Our nation's anti-hunger programs need to be strengthened,” Serrano said. “It’s time to try a new, integrated approach. After working with local and national anti-hunger organizations over the past few years, I came to the conclusion that it is high time to act. The bill would help the frontline providers of food to the most needy to professionalize their services. In a country with an overabundance of food, no one should go hungry because of a lack of funds or technical and professional knowledge. We have the food, and we have the networks; we now need to support the providers.” “It is a moral failure that millions of New Yorkers go hungry each year,” said Rep. Weiner. “We cannot accept the status quo any longer. The reforms we are proposing will deliver real results for hungry New Yorkers. We are committed to seeing progress on this issue.” According to the Department of Agriculture, the number of Americans facing hunger or food insecurity has increased every year since 1999. In 2004, there were 38.2 million people—including 13.9 million or 19 percent of all American children—who at times were simply not sure of where or how they would find their next meal. Additionally, a recent study completed by the office of Rep. Weiner showed that New York City 's failure to enroll all its eligible food stamp participants costs the city an estimated $739 million annually in available federal funds. Currently, one third of eligible City residents, almost 600,000 people, needlessly fail to receive federal assistance for food. To address these shortfalls in management, coordination, and outreach, the pilot program would provide grants to well-established faith-based or community-based organizations. These organizations would aim to implement more cost-effective and coordinated approaches to improving nutrition and promote economic independence among the populations that they service. The bill would authorize an appropriation of $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2012. In order to tackle food stamp sign-up deficiencies, the bill would require the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to report annually on the effectiveness of each state’s program and allocate more federal funding to those states that: 1) Reduce wait times and repeat visits 2) Increase hours of service 3) Implement on-line applications 4) Provide required-document checklists to applicants. “Our nation cannot become complacent in the face of the growing problem of hunger,” Serrano added. “We must continue to try out new programs and support existing programs. Food is a basic right: no American should go to sleep hungry. Our nation is simply too wealthy and too compassionate to allow this to continue.”
03.29.2006	Washington, DC – March 29, 2006 – Late yesterday Congressman José E. Serrano introduced “The Child Citizen Protection Act,” a bill to restore partial discretion to immigration judges in cases where removal of an immigrant is clearly against the best interest of a child that is a United States citizen. Serrano called the bill “common sense legislation,” that would protect children and families from unnecessary separation. “I’m looking forward to strong support from members of all political stripes, because this bill is about helping children stay with their families,” Serrano said. “We must change this rigid law, because it allows no discretion on the part of immigration judges, and often ends up separating children from their parents. We must have faith that these judges will make the right decisions, and free their hands to do so.” Currently, an immigration judge presiding over cases that would separate parents from children, has no choice but to order permanent removal of the undocumented parent from the United States. There is no room to consider the harm such separation would cause to the child, who is a citizen. As a result of this, the parents who do have citizenship have been forced to become single parents, dependents have become breadwinners, and working American families have joined the welfare rolls. Most importantly, the children, who bear no blame, have lost contact with a parent and intact families are broken apart. “The present immigration system does little to protect the best interests of the children and keep families together,” Serrano added. “That’s just wrong—and this bill would help to change it. Deporting the parents of American children is not the right course for our nation. “We must do everything in our power to keep families together, and to use common sense in our immigration laws. Children deserve better than to lose a parent because of an inflexible law.”
03.21.2006	The Bronx, NY, March 21, 2006 – Congressman Serrano was “heartened” and “pleased” by the latest Census Bureau numbers which show that the Bronx has the greatest number of Hispanic-owned businesses in New York City. The Bronx surged to 38,325 Hispanic-owned businesses in the current report from 14,784 in 1997. “The Bronx numbers show the economic vitality of the borough, and illustrate its turnaround in recent years. Hispanic businesses are a key driver of that revitalization and play a central role in the borough’s economic health,” Congressman Serrano said. “I am pleased to learn that there are real numbers that support the sense that we all have that the Bronx is undergoing an economic revitalization. I will be doing everything I can to ensure that future numbers will continue this trend.” Bronx County had the fourth-highest total of Hispanic-owned businesses in the nation according to the Census report, in addition to the highest total in New York City. The Bronx overtook Queens in this category since the 1997 count.
03.21.2006	The Bronx, March 21, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano helped release 200 alewife herring into the Bronx River calling it “a historic moment.” The reintroduction, which came as the culmination of years of cleanup and restoration, marks the return of a native species of herring to the river for the first time in living memory. The fish are expected to be the seed colony for a breeding population. “The release of these fish is both symbolic and real,” Serrano said. “It is a real event in the sense that these fish will establish themselves and multiply. But it is also a larger victory for environmental restoration. This is the first time in more than a generation that the Bronx River, which has been long neglected and abused, has been able to support this sort of wildlife. While the federal funding I secured paid for this historic clean up, it could not have been done without the energy and dedication of many individuals and groups, some of whom are on hand here today.” “For many years, the Bronx River was a dumping ground, a virtual dead zone for wildlife. That picture today is totally changed. In many spots it has become an urban oasis, a refuge from the concrete and steel of the city. Adding wildlife back will only serve to continue that shift from a mistreated backwater to a treasured resource for generations to come. “I must compliment the efforts of the Wildlife Conservation Society, the Bronx River Alliance, NOAA, the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation’s Natural Resource Group, and Lehman College. Without their dedication and drive, this project would never have come to fruition. “Today's release will multiply into many fish and speed the return of a natural river. It is a real environmental victory for the Bronx."
03.17.2006	WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano to deliver keynote address on Iraq and the war on terrorism at Working Families Party event. WHEN: 7 P.M. – 9 P.M., Monday, March 20, 2006 WHERE: Columbia University, Barnard College Lehman Auditorium, 202 Altschul Enter west side of Broadway at 117th St. Please join Congressman Serrano at an event dedicated to ending the Iraq War. Congressman Serrano will speak about the war in Iraq and its links to the war on terror and the erosion of our civil liberties. A consistent opponent of the war in Iraq, Congressman Serrano will discuss the systematic threats to our democracy posed by the Bush Administration’s actions both at home and abroad, and the opportunities for withdrawing the troops from Iraq.
03.16.2006	Washington, DC, March 16, 2006—Today Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) said that the Bush Administration’s new National Security Strategy showed that they “clearly haven’t learned much over the past several years.” In the new strategy statement, which outlines the nation’s strategic priorities and is required by law, the Administration reaffirms its central policy of preemptive war and unilateral regime change. “The blindness of this Administration is shocking at times,” Serrano said. “They seem to be completely unaware of the disasters that their policy of preemptive war has created over the past several years. No one disputes that we need to be aggressive in the fight against terrorism, but we must be smarter in our thinking than this National Security Strategy shows us to be.” “I cannot understand why the strategy did not take into account the lessons of the Iraq War, the failure to catch Osama Bin Laden and the hostility generated amongst our allies by our unilateral actions. We should be moving toward a more multilateral strategy to isolate terrorism and get it at its roots, not just more of the same failed approach. “It is sad to see the Bush Administration is repudiating the strategies of deterrence and multilateralism that worked for most of the 20th century. The world may have changed on 9/11, but it didn’t change so much that we must become a belligerent bully that casts aside allies who do not agree with us. That approach does not work.”
03.08.2006	Washington, DC, March 8, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the changes to the reauthorization of the USA Patriot Act that passed last night in the House by a margin of two votes. Serrano voted against the changes, calling them “an inadequate fig leaf that cannot cover the flaws in the Patriot Act.” “This ill-conceived law should never have been reauthorized,” Serrano said. “The slight changes that passed last night, billed as a ‘compromise,’ did nothing to alleviate civil liberties and privacy concerns. The government can still conduct clandestine searches of innocent people’s private information such as library, medical, and financial records. This is wrong and should have been addressed in a true compromise.” “The USA Patriot Act was hastily passed in the wake of 9/11 with little time to weigh the consequences. Now we have had time to see that many of its provisions violate civil liberties and give too much unchecked power to law-enforcement agencies. In the past I have called for repealing parts of the act because I think they remove necessary checks against abuse of power by law enforcement agencies at the same time that it gives them increased powers. “In the House, the Republicans allowed no debate on these changes. I do not believe that Americans sent us here to superficially consider legislation that has such a profound effect on civil liberties. We are not here to be a rubber stamp for everything this Administration claims it needs for the war on terror. These changes do not address the fundamental flaws in the Patriot Act.”
03.03.2006	Washington, DC, March 3, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano announced that the FBI has undertaken an internal investigation of the Rio Piedras incident in response to the request of Serrano and his congressional colleagues. “While I would have preferred an independent investigation, the internal investigation is a good first step,” Congressman Serrano said. “It seems the FBI understands that this is a very serious matter and it deserves scrutiny. The agents who were involved in this incident must be held accountable for breaking any regulations or procedures and any civil rights violations.” The incident in question took place on February 10, when agents from the FBI and perhaps other agencies were raiding homes and offices of Puerto Rican independence activists. The FBI alleged that the raids were counter-terrorism related. Serrano asked the Homeland Security secretary, Michael Chertoff, to confirm the counter-terrorism charge at an annual briefing. Secretary Chertoff was unable to confirm or deny whether the raids were counter-terrorism related. “I look forward to finding out why FBI agents sprayed mace on journalists who were covering this story,” Serrano added. “It is a stretch to believe that it was necessary. Regrettably, the FBI has a very troubled past in Puerto Rico. This incident, combined with the recent Ojeda Rios killing, dredges up unpleasant memories of the FBI’s terrible behavior in Puerto Rico in past decades. We must get to the bottom of these problems and make sure no more occur.”
03.02.2006	Washington, DC, March 2, 2006—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano introduced together with Puerto Rican Resident Commissioner Luis Fortuño H.R. 4867, the “Puerto Rico Democracy Act of 2006.” Serrano was an original co-sponsor and co-author of the legislation that would enable the Puerto Rican people, both on the island and living abroad to decide their future political status. “I am very pleased that the process is finally moving forward to allow Puerto Ricans the ability to decide once-and-for-all whether they would like to be a state or an independent nation,” Serrano said. “I believe that this legislative interpretation of the report of the President’s Task Force on Puerto Rico has the potential to finally end the colonial status of Puerto Rico.” “I have consistently argued over the years that Puerto Ricans living abroad must be allowed to vote in any status referendum. I am very pleased that a provision allowing this to happen has been included in this legislation. A change in status would affect them in many of the same ways that it would affect those still living in Puerto Rico. They must, therefore, be allowed to voice their opinion about the issue. “There cannot be a plebiscite or referendum that allows the current status to continue. Under the Constitution of the United States, there is no provision for the current status continuing as a permanent condition. Statehood and independence are the only two legitimate and constitutional options. “Whatever the choice, Puerto Rico is ready to make this decision. I look forward to working to move the bill and the process further toward its goal of a final resolution of the status issue. The time has come to move forward.”
02.24.2006	Washington, DC, February 24, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement today on the Bush Administration’s continuation of the programs once contained in the Total Information Awareness program. Congress barred the program’s operation more than two years ago, but several media reports in recent days have described the program’s continued existence under new titles and agencies. “When we voted to forbid the Administration from collecting massive amounts of data on innocent American citizens through their Total Information Awareness program, we expected its complete discontinuation,” Congressman Serrano said. “Changing the name of the program, and shifting its location from the Pentagon to other agencies clearly does not follow the intent of Congress. The Administration shows an utter disdain for the will of Congress, and our co-equal power under the Constitution. The program must stop, and the Administration must be held accountable.” “We live under a system of checks and balances in this government. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration seems to believe that their war on terror allows them to ignore Congressional power when it is inconvenient. “The majority of Americans do not want the TIA program collecting data about their personal lives and decisions. The Administration must respect the will of the American people, and Congress’ intent and Constitutional authority.”
02.24.2006	Washington, DC, February 24, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano and New York State Senator José M. Serrano condemned the anti-Semitic defacement of the Pelham Parkway Jewish Center that took place on Wednesday night in the Pelham Parkway section of The Bronx. “I grew up in a diverse Bronx, where Jews, Puerto Ricans, African-Americans, Italians and others did their best to live side-by-side in peace and mutual respect,” Congressman Serrano said. “I raised my children there in the same spirit of tolerance and understanding. It is deeply troubling to learn of crimes like these, motivated by narrow-mindedness and ignorance. The value of tolerance is central to living in today’s world—especially in diverse places like the Bronx. People must realize that a crime motivated by racial or ethnic prejudice against one group is a crime against all of us. I look forward to seeing the perpetrators of this crime brought to justice. Senator Serrano said, "It is sad that this type of ignorant behavior still exists in our time. The Bronx is made up of strong and diverse residents that will not be shaken by this simple-minded act. We need to continue teaching the value of diversity and tolerance to our children so that these types of crimes become a thing of the distant past."
02.23.2006	Washington, DC, February 23, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano questioned the conclusions of the U.S. Census Bureau report entitled Tabulating Prisoners at Their Permanent Home of Record Address saying that the report “had not evaluated all options fully.” “This Census report ignores a central tenet of the Census Bureau’s mission: to provide an accurate picture of our nation,” Congressman José E. Serrano said. “I continue to believe that a fair and accurate Census should count inmates as residents of the place from which they came and where they are most likely to return, not as residents of a far-off prison. “These are the communities that must help released prisoners reintegrate into society, and these are the communities that are most in need of gaining an accurate picture of their populations, in order to help them assess their funding priorities. One of the key conclusions of the report was that counting inmates in the new way would cost $250 million—close to $100 per prisoner. A normal census survey costs close to half that amount per citizen. “Instead of providing an overview of how they could make this change in methodology work, the Census Bureau only makes excuses for why they don’t believe it should be done,” Serrano added. “The report focuses heavily on the increased cost as a prohibitive factor. However, the report only examined one option for implementing this alternative counting process, and did not analyze several lower cost possibilities. It is also hard to believe that it would cost close to double the amount per person to count inmates as it does to count regular citizens. “Most importantly, I believe that implementing a fair and precise census is worth the cost. The task of conducting the decennial census is already itself a gargantuan one and relatively small increases in costs are a small price to pay for doing it right. Our nation deserves the very best demographic and population data. In drawing hasty conclusions with insufficient backing in this report, the Census Bureau abdicated its responsibility for providing the best data possible.”
02.22.2006	Washington, DC, February 22, 2006 – Congressman José E. Serrano released the following tribute commemorating the life of Latin Jazz great, Ray Baretto, which he plans to submit to the Congressional Record when Congress is in session next week. *** Tribute to Mr. Ray Barretto Tuesday, February 28, 2006 Mr. Speaker, it is with great sympathy that I rise today to say goodbye to a Latin Jazz legend and a wonderful man. Mr. Ray Barretto passed away on Friday, February 17, 2006 at the age of 76. Ray was the first Hispanic to record a Latin song which became a "hit" on the American Billboard Charts. Although he has gone, his musical influence will live on for generations to come. Surely that is a mark of a great life. Like many Puerto Ricans, Ray’s parents moved to New York in the early 1920’s in search of a better life. Raised in Spanish Harlem, he was deeply influenced by his mother's love of music and by the jazz music of musicians such as Duke Ellington and Count Basie. In 1946 at the age of 17, he joined the army and was stationed in Germany where he met Belgian musician Fats Sadi. However, it was not until he heard “Manteca" recorded by Dizzy Gillespie and Cuban percussionist, Chano Pozo, that he realized music was his true calling in life. After returning to New York in 1949, Ray began to visit clubs where he participated in jam sessions and perfected his conga playing. It wasn’t long before the likes of Charlie Parker, Jose Curbelo and Tito Puente began to invite him to sit in with their bands. Ray opened the door for other Latin percussionists to appear in jazz groups, creating a singular sound now known as Latin Jazz. From the late-60s until salsa’s popularity peaked in the mid 1980’s, Ray released nearly two dozen albums with the Fania label and achieved superstardom. In 1975, he was nominated for a Grammy Award for the song "Barretto," and in 1990, he finally won a Grammy for the album "Ritmo en el Corazón" (Rhythm in the Heart), which featured the vocals of the late great Celia Cruz. In 1999, Ray was inducted into the International Latin Music Hall of Fame and in January of 2006 he was named one of the National Endowment for the Arts’ Jazz Masters of 2006, the nation’s highest jazz honor. Mr. Speaker, Ray’s extraordinarily successful fusion of Afro-Caribbean rhythms with the idioms of jazz created a whole new genre of music that has not only entertained us but also helped to unite people from diverse backgrounds in a common love for the sound. The bonds that he worked to create over the years are, as one of his most popular tunes is entitled, “Indestructible”. I thank him for having the courage to ask, “why not,” when others asked “why.” For his masterful play and his genuine creativity, I ask that my colleagues join me in giving final farewell to the Godfather of Latin Jazz, Mr. Ray Barretto.
02.16.2006	Washington, DC, February 16, 2006 – In an annual appropriations hearing Wednesday with Secretary Michael Chertoff of the Department of Homeland Security, Congressman José E. Serrano asked about DHS involvement in the FBI/journalist altercation in Puerto Rico. Secretary Chertoff was unable to confirm or deny the presence of DHS agents in the raids that led to agents spraying mace on journalists. Serrano asked directly on three occasions whether the Department of Homeland Security was involved in the operation. Secretary Chertoff said that he was “not aware of DHS agents being involved, but they could have been through the Joint Terrorism Task Force.” Reflecting on the answer, Serrano stated: “If this operation against Independentistas was actually terrorism-related, I would imagine that Homeland Security would have been involved. If it wasn’t terrorism related, and the FBI publicly stated that it was, that raises very serious questions about the nature of the operation. I hope that following up with Secretary Chertoff will help me, and the public, determine whether this incident actually involved a terrorism threat.” “I intend to press this question further when I question FBI Director Mueller at his hearing before my subcommittee,” Serrano added. “There are too many unanswered questions, especially coming on the heels of the Ojeda Rios disaster. We must find out what is happening with the FBI in Puerto Rico. What is causing these operational calamities?”
02.14.2006	Washington, DC, February 14, 2006 – Citing apparent “excessive use of force against journalists,” by FBI agents in a recent operation in Puerto Rico three Members of Congress of Puerto Rican origin sent the following letter to FBI Director Robert Mueller today. The three Members were José E. Serrano (D-NY), Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) and Nydia Velazquez (D-NY). *** February 14, 2006 The Honorable Robert S. Mueller, III Director Federal Bureau of Investigations 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20535 Dear Director Mueller: As we wait for the results of the investigation we requested on the Bureau operation that led to the death of Mr. Filiberto Ojeda Rios on September 23, 2005, we are writing today to ask for another investigation into the actions of the FBI last Friday, February 10, 2006, in Río Piedras, Puerto Rico. We are particularly troubled by what appeared to be the excessive use of force against members of the press as they attempted to cover the FBI operation. Video of the incident has been aired extensively in television coverage of the day’s events and is widely available on the Internet. All major press organizations in Puerto Rico have vigorously condemned the violent actions of FBI agents against members of the press. The Chief of Police of Puerto Rico, Mr. Pedro Toledo, criticized the close-range use of pepper spray against reporters as “completely outside of the norm.” Furthermore, Mr. Toledo, along with the rest of the government of Puerto Rico, was reportedly not informed by the FBI of the operation until after it had ended. We ask for an immediate independent investigation to determine if the Bureau’s use of force was excessive or unwarranted. We request further that, if this independent investigation determines that violations of civil rights, laws or procedures did in fact take place, those responsible be brought to justice. In our democracy, the most fundamental obligation of law enforcement agencies is to uphold the constitutional rights of citizens as well as to protect the freedom of the press. Even in Puerto Rico, where the Bureau and its agents have a reputation for behaving as if they are above the law, the FBI is not exempt from these duties. Given the urgency of the circumstances and the nature of the incidents, we request a response from you no later than the close of business Thursday, February 16, 2005. Thank you for your attention to our concerns. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Luis V. Gutiérrez Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
02.13.2006	Washington, DC, February 13, 2006 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano lauded the willingness of all ends of the political spectrum in Puerto Rico to support his amendment to let all people born on the island vote in any referendum on its future political status. “I think we may be on the verge of moving forward in the long debate over Puerto Rico’s political future,” Serrano said. “I have always said that the future status needs to be decided by all Puerto Ricans born on the island—even if they now live elsewhere—because Puerto Rico’s eventual status will affect us all. I commend the statehooders and the independentistas for their initial willingness to accept my proposal.” “Over the years, many people left Puerto Rico for many reasons, but never because they wanted to sever all ties to the island and its future. Therefore, they must not be treated as though their move precludes them from participating in deciding Puerto Rico’s end status. A decision about final status also could affect their lives—whether the choice is statehood or independence. “With my amendment included, I would commit myself to working diligently to make sure that the U.S. Congress allows the referendum to move forward. I would also work hard to educate the people of the United States about the Puerto Rican status debate. “Finally, I must say that I am very pleased that this debate seems to be moving forward—this is a credit to the White House Task Force on Puerto Rico’s Status report that was begun under President Clinton and finished under President Bush. It was a sober, serious look at the options faced by the Puerto Rican people.” *** Serrano Aplaude la Aceptación en Principio de su Enmienda en la Votación Para difusión inmediata: 13 Febrero 2006 CONTACTO: Philip Schmidt TELEFONO: (202) 225-4361 EMAIL: philip.schmidt@mail.house.gov Washington, DC, 13 Febrero 2006 – Hoy el Congresista José E. Serrano aplaudió el apoyo de varios políticos Puertorriqueños a su enmienda que permitiría que todos los Puertorriqueños nacidos en Puerto Rico que residan fuera de la isla voten en el referéndum sobre el futuro político. “ Creo que estamos adelantando en el amplio debate sobre el futuro político de Puerto Rido.” dijo Serrano. “Yo siempre he dicho que el futuro político deber decidirse entre todos los Puertorriqueños nacido en la isla—aunque ahora vivan fuera de Puerto Rico -- porque en resumidas cuentas, el estatus final nos va a afectar a todos. Felicito a los estadistas y a los independentistas por su buena voluntad de aceptar mi enmienda. “Muchas personas se vieron obligados a salir de Puerto Rico por muchas razones—pero eso no indica que querrían dejar todos sus vínculos con la isla y el futuro de esta. Por ende, no se deben ver como desinteresados en tomar parte activa en la resolución del estatus de Puerto Rico ya que la decisión final sobre el estatus va a afectar sus vidas— ya bien la decisión final sea estadidad o independencia. “Con mi enmienda incluida en el proyecto, yo me comprometo a trabajar diligentemente para asegurar que el Congreso de los Estados Unidos permita que el proyecto del referéndum no se detenga. Yo me comprometo a instruir a mis compañeros en Estados Unidos sobre el tema de independencia o estadidad. “En fin, debo decir que estoy muy complacido que este debate se esté realizando. Hay que reconocer que este estudio del Grupo de Trabajo de la Casa Blanca comenzó bajo el presidente Clinton y concluyócon el presidente Bush. Las recomendaciones que este informe presentan ofrecen una perspectiva sensata y franca en cuanto a las opciones que encaran los Puertorriqueños.
02.10.2006	Washington, DC, February 10, 2006— Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano hosted a ceremony to mark the beginning of Black History Month and honor local leaders. New York State Assemblywoman Aurelia Greene; Gloria Denard, musician and founder of Manna House Workshops; Paula J. Martin, Executive Director of the Harlem Center for Education; and Dennis Terry, longtime community activist and leader, were recognized for their outstanding public service and dedication to our communities. Each was presented with a State Senate proclamation and a statement placed in the U.S. Congressional Record. “February is a month dedicated to the commemoration of the achievements and lives of the many millions of African-Americans,” Congressman Serrano said. “Our nation owes these great Americans a deep debt of gratitude for their many accomplishments, not least of which was their leadership in fighting for civil rights for all Americans. In so many cases, African-Americans have appealed to America’s ideals of equality and opportunity, and they have changed America for the better. These community leaders have done just that in the Bronx and East Harlem and I am very pleased to be able to bring some small measure of recognition to them. Assemblywoman Greene, Mr. Terry, Ms. Martin and Ms. Denard are all dedicated to empowering and uplifting our communities—and their achievements are an inspiration to all. I thank them for their public service.” “It gives me great pleasure to honor these outstanding African-American leaders who stand as a testament to the progress made in this country as a result of the civil rights movement, and the sacrifices made by its leaders,” said Senator Serrano. “African-Americans and other minority groups still face challenges in overcoming disparities that persist to this day; especially in healthcare, income, and education. Through continued leadership and dedication, like that shown by our local leaders, these hurdles can one day be overcome.” Congressman Serrano added: “We must take this month as a moment to reflect on where our nation is today in terms of the issues that are vital to African-Americans, and indeed, other racial minorities. In my opinion, there is still much work to be done. Many forms of injustice and racism are still present in our nation. We must continue to fight against oppression, both visible and hidden. We must remain vigilant. And we must strive for the day when the message of non-violence on behalf of freedom and democracy—one pioneered by African-American civil rights leaders—reaches all the corridors of power in this great nation. Freedom and democracy, as we know, can never come from the barrel of a gun, not in the Middle East nor anyone else in the world. This is the only way we can truly honor the legacy of the many African-Americans that struggled against oppression in the past.” “Aside from honoring the civil rights legacy of the African-American community, it is also important to honor the contributions in the arts, music, drama, dance, literature, science, and jurisprudence. Without their work, America would not be half the place that it is today.”
01.31.2006	Washington, DC, January 31, 2006—Congressman José E. Serrano, (D-NY) denounced President Bush’s State of the Union address as out-of-touch and inadequate. “Bush’s remarks showed a total lack of touch with the realities in Iraq and in the United States,” Serrano said. “What’s more, he showed that he has no plan to fix the many problems faced by Americans today. The speech was yet another example of the failure of this President to chart the right course for America.” “I was hoping to hear realism on Iraq, but instead heard more of the same pie-in-the-sky rhetoric. Iraq continues to be an immense disaster, and the President has no apparent plan for getting our troops out. Again he reminded us that his only plan is the empty slogan of ‘stay the course.’ It is long past time our troops came home and our nation focused on finding Osama Bin Laden, instead of Iraq. “The President also did not adequately address his Administration’s illegal encroachments on civil liberties that we have discovered over the past several months. The illegal wiretapping program, from what has been reported, is wrong, and it violates the law, and the Constitution. There is no way in which this program, in my view, can be explained or justified. Instead, it should be ended immediately. “The President also talked at length about how well the American economy is doing. Apparently, he got his information on this topic from his millionaire supporters. For the average working family, these are trying economic times. And in spite of that reality, the President again called for extending his failed economic policies that favor millionaires at the expense of our national debt and our children’s future. It is time for a radical change in course in economic policy, but sadly, this President is not the one to make that change. “Under the leadership of this President, the state of the union is not strong. We are being pulled apart rather than pulling together. Our democracy is suffering from the choices being made, and yet we are offered the same tired excuses and unrealistic analyses. “The American people deserve truthfulness, not more political campaigning. The American people deserve a responsible government that seeks to address their needs, not more ideological dogma. Unfortunately, we got more of the same Tuesday night.”
01.31.2006	Washington, DC, January 31, 2006—Today Congressman José E. Serrano, (D-NY) placed the following statement into the Congressional Record commemorating the life and work of the late Coretta Scott King. *** Tribute to Mrs. Coretta Scott King January 31, 2006 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bid a last farewell to Mrs. Coretta Scott King, a woman of great character and conviction who worked tirelessly to make the dream of her husband a reality. Although we know her as the widow of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., that label is far too small to encompass the life of this remarkable woman. Born April 27, 1927 in Marion, Alabama, to Bernice McMurry Scott and Obeadiah Scott, Coretta was an accomplished student, graduating at the top of her high school class while becoming an exceptional musician. Although her parents worked hard to ensure that she was protected from the hardships of the segregated South, she was very aware of the fact that she and all blacks were deprived of many rights. In her in 1969 autobiography, "My Life With Martin Luther King Jr." Coretta stated: “From the first, I had been determined to get ahead, not just for myself, but to do something for my people and for all people.” Little did she know that fate would have her help shape the mind of a world leader. She met a young King in Boston while he was a student at Boston University and she a student at the New England Conservatory. After receiving her degree in voice and violin, the young couple moved to Montgomery, Alabama. Fifteen months later on December 1, 1955, a woman by the name of Rosa Parks refused to move to the back of a city bus…and the rest is history. Over the next 13 years she and her husband pushed our nation to tear down the walls of oppression and to reach for its great potential. By 1968 she had lived a life worth writing about, but it was the woman she became after the assassination of her husband in 1968 that will define her legacy. Only months after his death, she created the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change as a living memorial to her husband's life and dream. Leading marches, giving speeches and meeting with various world leaders, Coretta devoted all her energies to alleviating the pain and suffering of the disenfranchised at home and abroad. She probably will be most remembered for her successful campaign to establish a national holiday to honor the life and works of her husband. Mr. Speaker, throughout our history, great men and women have come and gone from these halls of Congress. However, their contributions to the American discourse did not die with them because we as a body have picked up where they left off, just as those who come after us will undoubtedly do. We all know that none of us are more important than this institution and what it represents. Coretta realized the same was true of her husband’s dream. Though he was a great man, his dream was greater than him. Had she allowed it to die with him, we all would have suffered a great disservice. Through her tireless work post-1968, she has ensured that our nation will never forget the dream of Dr. King, and more importantly, that we will never stop working towards its fulfillment. For her great service to America and her unyielding spirit, I ask that my colleagues join me in paying tribute to Mrs. Coretta Scott King and in bidding her a final farewell.
01.20.2006	Washington DC, January 20, 2006— Today, Congressman José E. Serrano expressed his satisfaction at the Treasury Department’s decision to allow Cuba to play in the World Baseball Classic in March. “This decision shows that sportsmanship can in fact transcend petty political feuds,” Serrano said. “Allowing Cuba to play in this baseball tournament was the right decision, both for the fans and for international relations. When Cuba’s initial application was denied, I said that this baseball tournament was not about politics. Today’s decision is an affirmation of that statement.” “With 90 of my colleagues in the House of Representatives, I sent letters to the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Commissioner of Major League Baseball. We all believed then, and still believe, that baseball should be kept free of politics. I’m sure I can speak for all of my colleagues when I say that this was the correct decision. Cuba deserves to be a part of this historic tournament. “Sports have always transcended politics and international disputes. From ancient Greece to today’s modern sports competitions, people have always sought to keep international contests free of ideology and to let the athletes’ physical feats take the center stage. In March, during the World Baseball Classic, we will be following in the best traditions of international competition by letting all the teams play in this tournament.”
01.06.2006	Washington, DC, January 6, 2006—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) released the following statement that he plans to submit to the Congressional Record on the life of the late Puerto Rican actor Raúl Dávila. Mr. Dávila passed away earlier this week. *** Tribute to Mr. Raúl Dávila Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and work of Raúl Dávila, the late, great Puerto Rican actor. Mr. Dávila was a leading light in the Hispanic acting community and a good friend. He will be missed by all who knew or knew of him. Mr. Dávila was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico on September 15, 1934. He graduated from the University of Puerto Rico and Tulane University. By the time he was in his early twenties, he was acting in soap operas and other works broadcast on the island of Puerto Rico. In spite of his success in Puerto Rico, he soon felt the pull to move to a larger market and to take on more challenges. In late 1963, like so many of his generation, he moved to New York. Upon arriving in New York, he immersed himself in the vibrant and vital Hispanic acting and arts scene. He began to work as an actor, and starred in many television shows, both in Spanish and English. He, along with other Hispanic actors, fought valiantly for the rights and recognition that Hispanic actors deserve. One manner in which Mr. Dávila successfully pushed for equal opportunities for Hispanic actors was through his leadership at the Hispanic Organization of Latin Actors, or HOLA, of which he was president many times. Part of HOLA’s mission statement reads that the organization seeks “to expand the presence of Hispanic actors in both the Latino and mainstream entertainment and communications media by facilitating industry access to employing professional and emerging Hispanic actors.” Raúl Dávila’s service to the community, of which he was such a vital part, focused directly on that mission. He sought to open doors for Hispanic actors here in the United States. Today we often take for granted much of the success that Latino performers have in show business. It is important, however, to remember that this was not always the case. We must recognize those who led the way. For this reason, it is fitting that we honor this Puerto Rican actor, who was not only a pioneer in his field, but also set the standard for others to follow in the decades to come. We must also recognize Mr. Dávila’s artistic achievements, which were many. He was the star of many “telenovelas,” popular Spanish-language soap operas, as well as well-received appearances in movies like “The Believers,” “The Man with My Face,” and “Counterplot.” He was perhaps best known for his role in “Carmelo Y Punto.” His acting in the play “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf” won him a prize in 1972 from the Puerto Rican Cultural Institute, and a prize from the newspaper “El Tiempo.” He also never gave up his love of learning about his craft, earning a Masters in Dramatic Arts from the Pasadena Playhouse in California later in life. Mr. Speaker, with the passing of Raúl Dávila, we have lost one of the leaders in the Hispanic acting community. His passion for acting and his dedication to promoting opportunities for other Hispanic actors was truly inspirational. Although he has passed on, his works will continue to inspire and impact the lives of generations to come. Surely, that is the mark of great life. I ask that my colleagues join me in paying tribute to Raúl Dávila.
12.22.2005	Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-16) will deliver the Democratic Hispanic Radio Address this Saturday, December 24, 2005. Below is the Spanish transcript and English translation of his address. Congressman Serrano will talk about how Congressional Republicans continued to fail Hispanic American working families during 2005, and on House Democrat’s specific proposals to improve the quality of life of all working Americans. The sound of Congressman Serrano’s address can be obtained through your local Univisión Radio affiliates, Radio Fórmula, Radiovisa, Radio Bilingüe, Latino Broadcasting Corporation affiliates, or CNN en Español after 11:06 a.m. Eastern Time on Saturday, December 24, 2005. The embargoed sound can also be obtained at: http://democraticleader.house.gov/audio/spanish122405.mp3 in MP3 format (English transcript below) * * * Jueves, 22 de diciembre de 2005 Contacto: Federico de Jesús (Pelosi), 202-225-0100 Philip Schmidt (Serrano), 202-225-4361 Embargado hasta 11:06 a.m. (EST), sábado, 31 de diciembre de 2005 Aviso de Prensa El Congresista José E. Serrano (NY-16) emitirá el Mensaje Demócrata por Radio El Congresista José E. Serrano (NY-16) emitirá el Mensaje Demócrata por Radio este sábado, 24 de diciembre de 2005. Adjunto el texto en inglés y en español de su difusión. El Congresista Serrano hablará sobre cómo el Congreso republicano le ha seguido fallando a las familias latinas durante el 2005 y sobre las propuestas específicas que los demócratas han propuesto para mejorar la calidad de vida de todos los trabajadores estadounidenses. El audio para la difusión del Congresista Serrano puede ser obtenido a través de su afiliada local de Univisión Radio, Radio Fórmula, Radiovisa, Radio Bilingüe, Latino Broadcasting Corporation, o CNN en Español luego de las 11:06 a.m. hora este el sábado, 24 de diciembre de 2005. El audio, embargado hasta el sábado a las 11:06 a.m., también puede ser obtenido a través de la siguiente página: http://democraticleader.house.gov/audio/spanish122405.mp3 en formato MP3 * * * Mensaje Demócrata por Radio Congresista José Serrano Fecha de difusión: sábado, 24 de diciembre de 2005 “Buenos días. Les habla el Congresista José Serrano de New York. “Mientras reflejamos en los logros del año 2005, la comunidad hispana tiene mucho de qué estar orgullosa. Nuestra influencia, como hispanos, sigue creciendo y nuestro impacto económico sigue mejorando las vidas de todos los americanos. Los latinos hemos jugado un papel crucial para fortalecer a nuestro país. “Sin embargo, les pregunto hoy, ¿el Presidente Bush y el Congreso republicano han cumplido su compromiso con nuestra comunidad? ¿Están cumpliendo ellos con lo mínimo que un gobierno debe de hacer por su gente? La triste respuesta es un rotundo NO. “Este año los republicanos en el Congreso han demostrado sus verdaderas intenciones. En vez de aumentar el salario mínimo, de hacer que la salud sea más económica o ayudar a que nuestro país esté más seguro, los republicanos se han enfocado en prioridades equivocadas. “La Comisión del 11 de septiembre (11-S) indica que ocurrieron grandes fallos en el gobierno y el Congreso republicano. También describieron como un fracaso la implementación de sus recomendaciones sobre cómo mejorar nuestra seguridad porque ellos no le han dado prioridad a la seguridad nacional. Por el contrario, los republicanos han escogido proponer y aprobar proyectos de ley para complacer el sentir vicioso anti-inmigrante de la derecha ultra conservadora. “Sobre Irak, luego de engañar a nuestra nación sobre una guerra innecesaria, basada en mentiras, el Presidente Bush todavía no ha presentado un plan claro y específico para la victoria, o para que nuestras tropas puedan regresar a casa lo antes posible. Lo único que han ofrecido los republicanos son palabras vacías de “stay the course,” continuar en el mismo camino a pesar que la violencia en ese país sigue aumentando y no parece tener fin. “En estos momentos nuestra comunidad está luchando cuesta arriba para pagar alquiler, comida, y los precios altos de gasolina y gas para los hogares. Mientras tanto, los republicanos de la Cámara aprobaron recortes al presupuesto de $50 mil millones de dólares a programas, mayormente para los pobres. Ellos alegaron que estos recortes eran para reducir la deuda, pero semanas después aprobaron más de $80 mil millones de dólares en recortes de impuestos para los ricos. ¿Dónde están las prioridades de este Congreso republicano? “Los demócratas ofrecemos un camino mejor. Este año pudimos derrotar el esquema del Presidente Bush para privatizar el Seguro Social. Los demócratas propusimos iniciativas específicas para mejorar la calidad de vida de todas las familias trabajadoras. Nuestro plan de “AmeriSave” le permitiría a millones de americanos a retirarse con dignidad. Nuestro “GI Bill of Rights for the 21st Century” o Carta de Derechos de Veteranos para el Siglo XXI (veintiuno) hace justicia a nuestra promesa con los veteranos. Nuestra nueva Agenda de Innovación es una visión agresiva para una nación más fuerte que estimule a la próxima generación a los descubrimientos, invención y crecimiento, mientras expandiría las oportunidades para todos. “Nuestro pueblo está pagando el precio de la cultura republicana de corrupción y compadrazgo. Yo les aseguro que juntos podemos construir un pueblo mucho mejor. Los demócratas estamos unidos con nuestra visión de esperanza, prosperidad y seguridad para todas las familias de este país, pero muy especialmente para todos los latinos. “Les habló el Congresista José Serrano de Nueva York. Gracias por su atención.” * * * Democratic Hispanic Radio AddressCongressman José Serrano Air Date: December 24, 2005 “Good morning. I am Congressman José Serrano from New York. “As we reflect on the accomplishments of 2005, the Hispanic community has many things to be proud of. Our influence in politics continues to grow and our economic impact continues to improve the lives of all Americans. Latinos have played a significant role in strengthening our country. “Yet, I ask you today, if the Bush Administration and the Republican Congress have lived up to their commitment to our community? Are they meeting the most basic obligations that a government has to its people? The answer, sadly, is a resounding NO. “This year, Republicans in Congress have shown their true colors, choosing their special interest cronies over the public interest. Instead of raising the minimum wage, making health care more affordable and making America safer, Republicans have focused on the wrong priorities. “The 9/11 Commission gave the Bush Administration and Republican Congress failing grades on implementing their recommendations to improve our security. Republicans have not made homeland security a priority. Instead they have chosen to propose and approve legislation to please the vicious anti-immigrant sentiments of the ultra-conservative right-wing. “On Iraq, after misleading our nation into a war of choice based on false premises, President Bush has yet to present a clear and specific plan for victory so that our troops can come home as soon as possible. All Republicans have offered are empty slogans of “stay the course,” while the violence in the country continues to rise with no end in sight. “During a time when many in our community are struggling to pay for rent, food, and the skyrocketing cost of gas and home heating oil, House Republicans approved a budget that cuts $50 billion to programs for the poor and the middle class. Republicans claimed these cuts would reduce the deficit, yet a few weeks later they approved more than $80 billion tax cut package for the wealthy few. Where are the priorities of this Republican Congress? “Democrats, on the other hand, have a better way. This year we were able to defeat President Bush’s ill-conceived Social Security privatization scheme. House Democrats put forward specific proposals to improve the quality of life of all working Americans. Our AmeriSave plan would allow millions of Americans to retire with dignity. The New GI Bill of Rights for the 21st Century would make good on our commitment to our veterans. Our Innovation Agenda is a bold vision for a stronger America that will unleash the next generation of discovery, invention, and growth, while expanding opportunities for all Americans. “The American people are paying the price for the Republicans’ culture of corruption and cronyism, but together, America can do better. Democrats are united in our vision of hope, prosperity and security for all American working families, especially Latinos. “I am Congressman José Serrano from New York. Thank you for listening.”
12.22.2005	Washington, DC, December 22, 2005—Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) expressed his strong support for the recommendations of the report by the President’s Task Force on Puerto Rico’s Status, calling it “historic.” The report states that “Although the current territorial status may continue so long as Congress desires, there are only two non-territorial options recognized by the U.S. Constitution that establish a permanent status between the people of Puerto Rico and the Government of the United States. One is statehood. Under this option, Puerto Rico would become the 51st State with standing equal to the other 50 States. The other is independence. Under this option, Puerto Rico would become a separate, independent sovereign nation.” Serrano, the most senior Member of Congress of Puerto Rican origin, responded enthusiastically to the Task Force report, stated “this report recognizes the reality, that Puerto Ricans must decide the future status of their island with regard to the United States. The current political arrangement leaves the island without real democratic representation—a situation that underscores the island’s colonial status. The recommendations of this report are a welcome step forward in this debate.” “The report reflects my long-held feeling that when Puerto Ricans are eventually allowed to decide on the island’s ‘final status,’ they should choose between statehood and independence and not consider continuing the island’s current colonial/territorial status. Again, Puerto Ricans deserve the right to real self-determination, and the current situation is unacceptably undemocratic. The report also states that “Ideally, the process should begin with an expression from the people of Puerto Rico on whether to maintain current territorial status or establish a permanent non-territorial status with regard to the United States.” “I applaud the clear-eyed manner in which this task force set out the options that Puerto Rico and Puerto Ricans have. As this report concludes, the current arrangement is not a final choice. Now is the time to move forward to a final resolution of the vexing question final status for Puerto Rico. I look forward to this process.”
12.20.2005	Washington, DC, December 20, 2005— Congressman José E. Serrano expressed outrage and disbelief at the revelations that the Bush Administration has been conducting domestic operations involving wiretaps without warrants and FBI spying on environmental and social activist groups. “Have we forgotten the lessons of the J. Edgar Hoover years?” Serrano asked. “I’m outraged that the Administration would engage in this sort of activity. I believe the Bush Administration’s over-zealousness in the war on terrorism has led it to cross the line and infringe on our civil liberties. These activities must stop and they deserve a full investigation.” “I am particularly dismayed by the disclosure that the FBI has been spying on domestic activist groups. I cannot understand how these groups, engaged in lawful and constitutionally-protected activities, became the target of FBI surveillance. Under whose orders did they conduct these programs? Did their marching orders come from the White House? I demand a full accounting.” Today’s New York Times detailed several cases of domestic surveillance against various interest groups. “One F.B.I. document indicates that agents in Indianapolis planned to conduct surveillance as part of a "Vegan Community Project." Another document talks of the Catholic Workers group's "semi-communistic ideology." A third indicates the bureau's interest in determining the location of a protest over llama fur planned by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals” (NYTimes, 12/20/2005). “We must begin to question where the erosion of our civil liberties will stop,” Serrano said. “Law-abiding United States citizens should not fear intrusion on their lives from the government. This is one of the fundamental rights spelled out in the Constitution. The activities of these groups were not illegal and cannot, in my opinion, be linked to the war on terror authorized by Congress in the wake of the September 11th attacks. “I am not a constitutional scholar, but in my opinion these operations potentially violate both the first and fourth amendments of our constitution, which provide for the rights to assemble peaceably with whomever one chooses and to do so free of unreasonable searches without a judicial warrant. “These policies are the first step on the slippery slope that ends with the executive branch using our law enforcement apparatus to silence political dissent. The chilling effect on free speech that this surveillance can have is exactly what Congress and the American public agreed must never happen in the wake of the Nixon years. We must not allow the war on terrorism and the resulting fear to drive us to surrender our civil liberties and to intolerance of political dissent. “I support the bi-partisan demands for an explanation of these surveillance programs on the part of the FBI and the Administration. In the meantime, I call on the Administration to halt all such activities. Our war on terrorism is not license for an intelligence war on our own people.”
12.19.2005	Washington, DC, December 19, 2005— Congressman José E. Serrano today reiterated his support for allowing the Cuban national baseball team to play in the World Baseball Classic in March. On Friday, he sent a letter to Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, expressing his support for Major League Baseball’s plan to appeal the decision or to reapply for a license for the Cubans to play. The text of the letter follows. “As a life-long baseball fan, I stand behind Major League Baseball’s decision to actively pursue a solution to this impasse,” Serrano said. “On this issue I join with my fellow baseball fans in asking that the U.S. government allow the Cubans to come play in the World Baseball Classic. On the field of competition, players leave their politics behind. Our government should not politicize this unique baseball event.” *** December 16, 2005 Commissioner Allan H. "Bud" Selig The Office of the Commissioner of Baseball 777 East Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 060 Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202-5300 Dear Commissioner Selig: Last week 80 Members of Congress sent you a letter expressing support for your decision to invite Cuba, a member of the International Baseball Federation, to the World Baseball Classic. Unfortunately, the Office of Foreign Assets Control has refused to grant the necessary license that would allow Cuba’s participation to move forward. It is our understanding that Major League Baseball is planning on either filing an appeal or applying for a new license, and I would like to express my strong support for these actions. Clearly baseball fans around the world would enjoy seeing Cuba participate in this inaugural World Baseball Classic, and I stand ready to assist in making this happen. As Members of Congress stated in our earlier letter, let’s put sportsmanship over politics. With warm best wishes, I am Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
12.15.2005	Washington, DC, December 15, 2005 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano outlined his reasons for opposing H.R. 4437, The Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005, which is expected to come to a vote tomorrow despite splits in the Republican ranks on the measure. “I oppose H.R. 4437 because it is punitive, counterproductive and mean-spirited,” Serrano said. “While our nation’s immigration laws do need a comprehensive overhaul, this enforcement-only bill is a step in the wrong direction. It further criminalizes immigration without increasing legal routes to citizenship. This is the wrong approach.” “The Republicans proposing this bill would have the American public believe that this measure will increase border security and keep out terrorists. But unfortunately the opposite is true. By criminalizing immigration, it drives those interested in immigrating further into the shadows, where they are preyed upon by unscrupulous traffickers. At the same time terrorists seeking entry could utilize these same illegal networks to gain safe passage across the border. We must make immigration a legal, orderly process to eliminate this issue, not further criminalize it. “I have specific concerns about several provisions in this legislation. First, this bill would also criminalize everyday Americans who provide help to undocumented immigrants. For instance, driving an injured undocumented immigrant to the hospital would be considered ‘transporting or aiding an illegal alien’ under the provisions of this measure. This mean-spirited provision violates our nation’s tradition of helping people in need. “Second, H.R. 4437 would deputize local law enforcement agencies to implement federal immigration law—diverting their attention and resources from far more pressing crimes. Enforcing federal immigration law is the responsibility of the federal government. It is a responsibility that could be made far easier if the Congress would adopt laws that approach the issue in a rational way. “Lastly, this bill would expand ‘mandatory detention’ for undocumented immigrants apprehended by federal authorities. In my opinion, people who come to this country in search of a job and a better life should not be rounded up, detained and deported. We must recognize that our economy relies on the labor that they provide, and provide a mechanism to allow them to move toward full citizenship. Our economy depends on it.” Approximately 163 national, state, and local organizations, including many business groups, have written to the entire Congress opposing H.R. 4437 and the Republican Caucus has been split on the issue. Congressman Serrano believes that the fundamental problem with this measure is that it ignores many realities of the immigration question. “Immigrants come to our nation seeking better life prospects,” Serrano concluded. “Our immigration laws should reflect that fact. H.R. 4437 is a counterproductive and punitive approach that does nothing to secure our nation or help address the issues of immigration. For this reason and those listed above, I will vote against the bill when the Republican sponsors bring it to the floor of the House of Representatives.”
12.13.2005	Washington, DC, December 13, 2005—Today Congressman José E. Serrano began circulating three letters for signature urging various officials to allow the Cuban national baseball team to play in the 2006 World Baseball Classic. The texts of the letters follow. The letters will be sent at the end of this week to Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Treasury Secretary John Snow urging them to allow the Cuban national team to play in the tournament and to issue visas for them to be able to do so. “Let’s leave the politics out of this,” Serrano said. “The World Baseball Classic should not be tainted by our grudge against ’s government. produces some of the finest baseball talent in the world and they deserve to participate. Let’s let them play baseball so fans worldwide can enjoy this great tournament as it was meant to be.” *** Commissioner Allan H. "Bud" Selig The Office of the Commissioner of Baseball 777 East Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 060 Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202-5300 Dear Commissioner Selig: We would like to express our support for the decision to invite , a member of the International Baseball Federation, to the World Baseball Classic. has a competitive team and its presence in this tournament will enhance the overall quality of the contest. We are looking forward to this 18-day opportunity to see some of the world’s best baseball teams engaging in friendly competition, and we do not believe that politics has any part in this event. Politics and the political relationships between countries can be debated by our diplomats and in the United Nations, but let’s keep this a simple sporting event. There is a tradition, as exemplified by the Olympic Games, of encouraging international competition. In fact, participated in the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, . Allowing ’s participation in the World Baseball Classic follows this longstanding practice. We will also be writing to Secretary Snow and Secretary Rice to express our support for allowing to participate. Let’s not take our complex international relationships to the baseball field, but instead let’s just enjoy the game and put sportsmanship over politics. *** The Honorable Condoleezza Rice Secretary of State Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Rice: We are pleased to learn that , a member of the International Baseball Federation, has accepted the offer to play in the World Baseball Classic. This will give all nations a chance to put aside politics and simply enjoy an outstanding baseball competition played on the world stage. We hope that the Department of State will issue all of the necessary visas that will allow ’s talented baseball players to travel to the for the games that are scheduled in our country. There is a tradition, as exemplified by the Olympic Games, of encouraging international competition. In fact, participated in the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, . Allowing ’s participation in the World Baseball Classic follows this longstanding practice. This is an opportunity for people throughout the world to enjoy the competition, and we hope that the requisite visas will be quickly granted. Let’s not take our complex international relationships to the baseball field, but instead let’s just allow this unique baseball experience to move forward. It is time to put sportsmanship over politics. *** The Honorable John W. Snow Secretary Department of the Treasury 15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Snow: As a result of its membership in the International Baseball Federation, was invited to participate in the first World Baseball Classic. We are writing to urge that the Treasury Department quickly approve and issue the license that would allow to receive tournament funding. politics has no place in what is clearly an international sports competition, and we look forward to seeing compete on the baseball field. There is a tradition, as exemplified by the Olympic Games, of encouraging international competition. In fact, participated in the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, . Allowing ’s participation in the World Baseball Classic follows this longstanding practice. In closing, we urge that you avoid the politicization of what should instead be a chance for all who love baseball throughout the world to simply enjoy 18 days of great baseball. It is time to put sportsmanship over politics.
12.12.2005	Washington, DC , December 12, 2005—Today Congressman José E. Serrano yet again called for an immediate and complete withdrawal of our troops from . “As we pass the 1000th day of our involvement in , I again call for the troops to come home,” Serrano said. “Our troops have served honorably and should not suffer one day longer in because of President Bush’s poor judgment.” “It is now patently clear, and has been for some time, that all the reasons given for our involvement in were false. No weapons of mass destruction have been found. There was no link to Al-Qaeda. The American public would not have supported the rush to this war if it was to bring democracy to , as is the current Administration talking point. But beyond that, the insurgency is not on its last legs, and stable democracy is not going to be possible without true security. Our involvement in must end. “The Administration has been using the analogy of being now at the same historical moment as when our founding fathers were forming our nation. There is one crucial part of the analogy that they conveniently leave out: the struggle against an occupying power was the galvanizing power behind our founding fathers’ movement. Iraqis see themselves in the same sort of struggle. In order that they solve their own political quagmire, our troops must cease to be their excuse for inaction. Our presence is a distraction from the real Iraqi task of constructing a stable political framework for their nation. “I join with many of my Democratic colleagues in saying that this Administration cannot be trusted on this war. They have repeatedly stretched the truth, or left out inconvenient facts. They have punished those who spoke out against their constructed vision of progress in . Their much-touted “plan for victory” was found to have been crafted by a public relations expert, rather than military strategists. Their credibility is non-existent. At this point there are only four words I want to hear from this Administration: We are leaving .”
12.09.2005	WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano will join U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Deputy Secretary Roy Bernardi and Ms. Lorraine Montenegro, Executive Director of United Bronx Parents, Inc. as well as other key community leaders to announce funding to United Bronx Parents, a non-profit housing and social service advocacy group, to benefit persons living with HIV/AIDS. WHEN: 11:00 a.m. Monday, December 12, 2005 WHERE: United Bronx Parents, 974 Prospect Avenue, the Bronx, New York ************************************************************************* WHAT: Congressman Serrano will welcome NASA representatives Ron Garan, an astronaut and Orlando Figueroa, the Director of Applied Engineering and Technology at the Lorraine Hansberry Academy CS214X, as they kick-off the educational partnership between NASA and the school. The “Vision of Space Exploration” program will encourage the future explorers to study math and science so they can pursue careers in aeronautics and space WHEN: 1:00-2:15 p.m., Monday, December 12, 2005 WHERE: Lorraine Hansberry Academy CS214X, 1970 West Farms Road, the Bronx
12.06.2005	The Bronx , NY. December 6, 2005 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano, Venezuelan Ambassador Bernardo Alvarez and CITGO CEO Felix Rodriguez announced the details of a pilot program to deliver discounted heating oil to three non-profit housing corporations in the Bronx . The program is slated to be expanded to other non-profit organizations in coming months. The low-income residents of my district who will benefit from this historic agreement are going to see real savings and improvements in their quality of life” Serrano said. “We are truly grateful to CITGO and the Venezuelan people for their generosity. It is absolutely shameful that no American oil company has similarly stepped forward to help communities struggling with high energy costs during the winter heating season, especially in view of their record profits these last months.” Under the terms of the arrangement, the heating oil will be sold and delivered to the non-profits at a discount of 40 percent through April 1, 2006. The savings generated will be both reinvested in the community, through social programs run by the housing corporations, and given back to the tenants of the buildings, in the form of rent reductions or other benefits. “This effort in New York, along with the program we announced last month for Massachusetts and our efforts to provide unscheduled deliveries of refined gasoline and other fuels in the immediate aftermath of hurricanes Katrina and Rita to hold down price increases, is our effort as corporate citizens to help Americans who need a helping hand.” said CITGO CEO Felix Rodriguez. CITGO, a 100-year-old company, is wholly owned by the Venezuelan oil company PDVSA. CITGO has agreed to provide up to 8 million gallons of the discounted oil, which will mean savings in the millions of dollars. The program will initially benefit some 8000 low-income residents of the Bronx . The three initial non-profit recipients will be the Mt. Hope Housing Corporation, the Fordham-Bedford Housing Corporation, and VIP Community Services. Other housing corporations, churches, health clinics, and hospitals are in negotiations for possible inclusion in the program. “Some have tried to read politics into these outreach programs” said Venezuelan Ambassador Bernardo Alvarez, “but they should not do so. This is a humanitarian gesture on the part of the Venezuelan people to our neighbors in need. It flows out of a promise President Chavez made during his trip to New York shortly after the hurricanes caused such havoc. It is consistent with our outreach to other countries in the , using our oil to assist in economic development and regional integration. We are all Americans.” “VIP Community Services is grateful for the opportunity to participate in the low cost heating oil program,” said Bernardo Rodriguez, Senior Vice President of VIP. “Because of the reductions in our costs, we will be able to enrich services to tenants and of course the rent reduction will mean a great deal to our tenants as well.” “Not only should the other major oil companies be embarrassed this winter for failing to help low-income Americans with their record-high heating bills, but our government is failing its citizens in this regard as well,” Serrano said. “Cuts to the amount federal assistance available through the Low Income Heating Energy Assistance Program at this time are insensitive and wrong. We should be seeking to increase the help for our most vulnerable this winter. I applaud CITGO for its good sense of corporate responsibility.” The low-cost heating oil program was developed specifically for the Bronx by Congressman Serrano and CITGO, an American-based petroleum company, owned by the Venezuelan state oil company, PDVSA. President Hugo Chávez of and Congressman Serrano began discussions about the program during a visit to the Bronx in September, 2005.
11.21.2005	The Bronx, NY, November 21, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano announced a program to provide reduced-cost heating oil to low income residents of his district. CITGO will provide 8 million gallons of home heating oil below cost to several non-profit housing providers in the Bronx beginning the week after Thanksgiving. CITGO is a Houston-based oil company owned by PDV America, Inc., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. The program comes as record high heating oil prices are expected and the winter months approach. Having heard firsthand the concerns of many constituents and local organizations about rising energy costs, Congressman Serrano initiated discussions with CITGO following Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez’ visit to the Bronx in September. President Chávez made an offer of low-cost heating oil during a speech at a community center. Congressman Serrano had invited Chávez to tour the 16th Congressional District in the Bronx and to visit with community groups from the area. Serrano later worked with representatives of CITGO and community-based organizations to bring the heating oil program to fruition. “I am very pleased to have helped broker this historic arrangement,” said Congressman Serrano. “I look forward to hosting a final signing ceremony next week, where the representatives of CITGO and non-profit housing providers will conclude this deal. My constituents are facing some of the highest energy bills in recent history, even as oil companies are reporting the largest profits in recent memory. CITGO is acting like a good corporate citizen and making a generous and compassionate donation to the people of the Bronx. I applaud their actions.” Further details of the arrangement will be announced at a press conference and signing ceremony the week after Thanksgiving with the housing providers and CITGO representatives present.
11.18.2005	Washington, DC, November 18, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano condemned the Republican budget cuts that passed the House of Representatives at close to 2:00 a.m. this morning. “I voted against these shameful cuts because they are wrong,” Congressman Serrano said. “The Republicans are trying to balance the budget on the backs of the poor. The real travesty is that they passed these cuts not to reduce the deficit as they claim, but rather to finance further tax cuts for millionaires. Where is their much touted compassionate conservatism? Where is their sense of right and wrong?" “In typical fashion, they waited until the dead of night to pass a measure that they did not want the American people to see. They did not want the American people to realize that they were cutting food stamps the week before Thanksgiving. They did not want the American people to realize they were cutting student loan aid barely a month before the holidays. They certainly did not want the American people to realize that they were cutting home heating programs at a time when prices are sky-high and the winter is upon us. Their cuts are wrong. “If they pass their series of tax cuts later today, they will effectively end any claim they had to fiscal responsibility, as the two bills put together will increase the deficit. My Democratic colleagues and I voted against the cuts, and will vote against more tax cuts for millionaires, not only because we do not want to increase deficit, but because we believe that should take care of those with the greatest needs among us. The Republicans seem to have lost any sense of legislative decency.”
11.07.2005	WHAT: Congressman José E. Serrano to join Congressman Charlie Rangel at a press conference highlighting the military’s recruiting methods. WHEN: Monday, November 07, 2005 1:30 p.m. WHERE: Times Square Recruiting Center, 200 W. 43rd Street and Broadway. Congressman José E. Serrano will join Congressman Charlie Rangel and other elected officials at a press conference at the Times Square Recruiting Center to denounce the military’s recruiting tactics, which target poor African-Americans and Hispanics for service. Congressman Serrano has been a strong opponent of the Iraq war since its inception, and believes that the war’s burden is being unfairly born by poor and disadvantaged youths. Part of the reason for this undue sacrifice on the part of the poor community stems from the military’s recruiting tactics.
10.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 26, 2005 Serrano Opposes Efforts to Attach Civic Activity Limitations to Affordable Housing Bill Washington, DC, October 26, 2005—Today, Congressman Serrano issued the following statement on the Federal Housing Finance Reform Act. “Today, the House will consider the Federal Housing Finance Reform Act, which is aimed at tightening regulation of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the 12 Federal Home Loan Banks.” “Republicans are expected to offer a manager’s amendment to the bill that will prohibit faith based groups and other non-partisan non-profits from participating in voter registration and other voting activities or even affiliating with any organization that engages in these activities, if they apply for affordable housing funding from the federal government. This prohibition would even go so far as to ban these activities when they use their own funds and would be applied retroactively. “Groups applying for funds would be deemed ineligible if they had been involved in voter registration and other non-partisan voting activities in the previous year. This provision would conflict with the 1993 “motor voter” law which requires certain nonprofits to provide voter registration forms and assistance in filling them out. “This provision would hurt many organizations in the Bronx, and around the . These organizations have multiple operations under the same roof—they might have a program that builds affordable housing, another program with youth and another that helps with voter registration. Forcing them to choose between funding for their affordable housing program and engaging in voter registration is unacceptable. “I am troubled by the potential limiting effect that this will have on the civic organization and on participation by low and moderate income individuals. This appears to be another attempt by the conservatives who run the Republican Party to suppress the voices and opinions of poor people at the ballot box. It is simply appalling and shameful, and possibly even unconstitutional, since it will restrict abilities of the organizations to engage in First Amendment civic activities. “For these reasons, I intend to vote NO on the manager’s amendment. If that amendment passes, I will vote NO on the underlying bill despite the fact that it contains many good provisions.” ###
10.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 25, 2005 As Iraq War Dead Surpasses 2,000, Serrano Again Calls for Complete Withdrawal Washington, DC, October 25, 2005 – Today, as the number of soldiers killed in passed 2,000, Congressman José E. Serrano offered his deepest condolences to the families of the fallen and again called for immediate and complete withdrawal of troops from . “Our troops need to come home from immediately,” said Congressman Serrano. “Nothing short of a full withdrawal is acceptable. We have lost far too many precious lives in a war that was sold on twisted logic and lies. We would have never been in this mess if the President and his group of advisers had come to the American people in the beginning and told the truth – that there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, that Iraq was not buying uranium in Africa, that we’d wreck the federal budget, and that thousands of American lives would be lost. If they had been told the truth, the American people would have never allowed this war to take place.” “Instead, the Administration and its cronies repeatedly told us that Saddam Hussein had ties to the September 11th tragedy and Al Qaeda—both of these assertions were lies. They also said it would be a cakewalk and a short-term commitment, paid for by Iraqi oil revenue. This was wishful thinking at best or gross negligence at worst. “I have given up on hearing an honest assessment of the situation from this Administration and its supporters. If you believe their assessments, we’ve been nearing a turning point for the whole war. But the turning point never seems to happen. We have repeatedly been told that the violence will end after some artificial milestone, like a certain election or referendum. Instead the level of violence has steadily increased. We cannot control this situation and we cannot continue to ask our men and women in uniform to complete what is now clearly mission impossible. Congressman Serrano has been a consistent critic of the war in , beginning with his vote against its authorization in 2002. He is a member of the Out of Iraq Caucus in Congress. He is a co-sponsor of House Joint Resolution 55, “Withdrawal of Armed Forces From Resolution of 2005--Homeward Bound,” along with 62 of his colleagues. “2,000 deaths is 2,000 too many” Serrano concluded. “My heart goes out to the families who have lost these loved ones. Our nation’s prayers and thoughts are with them and we honor the noble sacrifice that their sons and daughters, sisters and brothers, husbands and wives have made. The best possible way to honor their memory, however, is to bring their comrades-in-arms home immediately.” ###
10.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 25, 2005 Serrano Reflects on Life of Rosa Parks Washington, DC, October 25, 2005 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano reflected on the life of civil rights leader Rosa Parks and her meaning to the civil rights struggle. Mrs. Parks passed away last night at the age of 92. “Rosa Parks was truly a courageous person,” Congressman Serrano said. “Her refusal to give up her seat in the face of the powerful forces of injustice helped to galvanize the long-overdue struggle for civil rights. Her peaceful act of protest was a turning point in our nation’s history. All Americans, regardless of race or creed, owe Mrs. Parks a debt of gratitude for her contribution to the national movement for a better ." “Today, I join my friends and colleagues in extending our condolences to the Parks family. Mrs. Parks was a national leader and a symbol of what one person can do to fight injustice. She will not be forgotten. “As we reflect on her life, it is important that we remember the lessons that Mrs. Parks taught us. As Americans, it is our civic duty to stand up against oppression and injustice. The best way to honor her memory is to renew our national will to fight against these forces of inequality.” ###
10.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:October 21, 2005Serrano Welcomes Philanthropic Leaders to the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 />Bronx<?xml:namespace prefix = o />Washington, D.C.— Congressman José E. Serrano met with the Association of Black Foundation Executives (ABFE) fellows via videoconference yesterday to talk about the philanthropic needs of the 16th congressional district. The fellows, who have been identified as future philanthropic leaders, are spending a year learning about targeting foundation resources to meet the needs of communities of color. The fellows spent the afternoon learning about the issues and needs of the Bronx, in roundtable discussions with local non-profits and in the videoconference with Congressman Serrano. “I am very happy to have hosted the ABFE fellows in the Bronx” Congressman Serrano said. “Their focus on directing foundation resources at the problems faced by communities of color is extremely welcome. The overwhelming majority of residents in the 16th congressional district are people of color and many are recent immigrants. Their lives could be dramatically improved with the help of local non-profits working in partnership with government and foundations, such as those represented by the ABFE fellows.” “The quality of life in the Bronx, and in particular the South Bronx, has improved dramatically in the past decade. Like many other urban areas in the United States, however, our borough continues to be plagued by poverty, environmental injustice, poor air quality, and inadequate housing stock.” Despite the borough's recent rebound, communities throughout the Bronx rely on a vibrant network of non-profits to serve its neediest residents. The 16th Congressional District has one of the highest concentrations of poverty in the United States, in spite of its location several subway stops north of the home offices for some of the largest foundations and wealthiest corporations in the United States. Connecting local communities in the district with the resources of the nation's philanthropic community is an important goal to Congressman Serrano. The president of the ABFE, Kenneth Austin, said: "The ABFE Connecting Leaders program is about helping people--and by coming to the Bronx, we have seen areas where philanthropic resources could help to change lives. The round-table discussion and the talk with Congressman Serrano helped to capture a sense of the critical issues faced by people in the Bronx; real world experiences that help our fellows to gain perspective on how philanthropy and government can work together to rebuild Black and Latino communities." "Our community is on the upswing," said Congressman Serrano. "But there is much more that we all need to do to ensure that everyone in this community has a fair shot in life. The work of non-profits, both faith-based and secular in the Bronx cannot be understated. I am very happy to have shown this side of the Bronx to the ABFE fellows and hope they will in the future work with and support the outstanding work that is being done by non-profits in our community.”###
09.27.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 27, 2005 Serranos Applaud “Hungarian Gold Train” Settlement $25.5 million settlement helps bring closure to shameful episode Washington, D.C., September 27, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), and New York State Senator José M. Serrano applauded the $25.5 million settlement between the U.S. government and Hungarian Jews whose stolen property disappeared in 1945 after a Nazi trainload of their looted possessions was confiscated by the U.S. Army. The Army never returned or accounted for the trainload of artwork, jewelry and other precious belongings. Both Congressman Serrano and State Senator Serrano have championed a fair resolution to this issue in their official capacities. As a Councilman, State Senator Serrano was instrumental in passing New York City Council Resolution No. 177 in 2004 urging action on the Gold Train case. His leadership helped bring the issue increased public attention and spur government action. Congressman Serrano was also active in this fight for justice. As a member of the Appropriations Committee subcommittee with oversight of the Department of Justice (DOJ), Congressman Serrano worked to ensure that the Justice Department recognized the significant implications of the case, though a series of pointed questions to officials at the Department. He also helped to insert language urging the DOJ to take action in resolving the matter, and asking them to “proceed with this mediation in a compassionate and expeditious manner in order to reach a fair resolution.” “I am pleased to have played a role in righting this historic wrong” said Congressman Serrano. “Our government had a responsibility to compensate these survivors, who had suffered so much already. Their possessions were taken from them by the Nazis, and then disappeared at the hands of the U.S. Army. That was not right. Monday’s settlement will never right the indignity of this situation, but it at least will give some measure of satisfaction to the survivors and their families to have the U.S. government admit it was to blame for this situation.” Senator Serrano said: “Since I first took up this issue in the New York City Council, it has been near to my heart. I am very happy to see that it has come to a conclusion that should help to rectify this terrible wrong. These survivors’ suffering was compounded by the inability of the U.S. government to admit its mistake over these 60 years. Monday’s settlement will help to bring closure to this shameful episode.” In 1944, the Nazis confiscated the personal property and valuables, including gold, jewelry, art, and religious objects, from the Jewish victims of the Holocaust in Hungary, and loaded the items onto a train. In May 1945, the U.S. Army accepted possession of this train for safekeeping, but failed to return the stolen property to its original owners. Instead, the U.S. government allowed it to be looted and ultimately sold what remained at auction. For over sixty years our government lied to the survivors about what had happened to these items. This story only came to light as part of the investigations of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Holocaust Assets, which issued a report in 1999 stating that the Gold Train case is “an example of an egregious failure of the United States to follow its own policy regarding restitution of Holocaust victims' property after World War II.'' Hungarian survivors filed suit in Florida in 2001 seeking restitution for their property. The initial Department of Justice response was entirely inadequate. After failing to get the lawsuit thrown out, the DOJ attempted to take dozens of grueling depositions from elderly survivors. Subsequently, it only filed a response to the lawsuit three years after the initial suit was brought. The resolution of this issue brings closure to a sad episode in our nation’s history—both in the initial actions of the U.S. Army, and also in the 60-year delay in justice. Our nation is stronger for having admitted this mistake. ###
09.26.2005	MEDIA CONTACT: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 26, 2005 FBI Promises Full Investigation of Ojeda Rios Killing at Urging of Reps. Serrano, Velázquez and Gutierrez Washington, D.C.—Today, Representatives José E. Serrano, (D-NY); Nydia Velázquez (D-NY); and Luis Gutierrez, (D-IL) received a promise from FBI director Robert Mueller III of a full investigation of the events surrounding the death of Filiberto Ojeda Rios. The investigation will be conducted by the Inspector General of the Justice Department. Director Mueller made the promise in a personal phone call with Congressman Serrano. Earlier in the day, the three members of Congress sent a joint letter asking for an investigation of the Ojeda Rios killing. “I am pleased that the FBI has responded to our concerns with this promise of an investigation” said Congressman Serrano. “Along with my colleagues, I will remain vigilant to ensure that we get answers to our questions about the events surrounding Ojeda Rios’ death. If laws were broken or protocol was breached, people must be held responsible.” Congressman Gutierrez said: "This situation demands a thorough investigation. As more information is revealed, there are serious questions regarding the FBI's actions, timing and discretion in this case. We need a full and fair airing of the facts of this violent incident, and I will be closely monitoring the outcome of the Inspector General's findings." “With the news today that the FBI has responded to our request for an investigation into the death of Ojeda Rios, there is hope for getting some answers,” Congresswoman Velázquez said. “Clearly, the details of what we know so far about this case raise serious questions and concerns. That is why it is so critical that we get to the bottom of this, and provide full disclosure and transparency to the people of Puerto Rico.” ###
09.26.2005	MEDIA CONTACT: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 26, 2005 Serrano, Velázquez, Gutierrez Send Setter to FBI Seeking Answers in Ojeda Rios Killing Washington, D.C.—Today, Representatives José E. Serrano, (D-NY); Nydia Velazquez (D-NY); and Luis Gutierrez, (D-IL) sent the following letter to the FBI regarding the killing of Filberto Ojeda Rios. September 26, 2005 The Honorable Robert S. Mueller, III Director Federal Bureau of Investigations 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20535 Dear Director Mueller: We are writing to join our voices to those from Puerto Rico, where in an unprecedented manner the leaders of all political parties and groups, government officials and religious and civic leaders have universally condemned the actions of the FBI in Puerto Rico on September 23rd and 24th that resulted in the death of Mr. Filiberto Ojeda Rios. We demand that an independent investigation be commenced immediately to determine if, as suspected by many in Puerto Rico, FBI agents used unwarranted excessive force, acted with an arrogance of power in keeping Puerto Rican constitutional and elected officials, the press and the public in the dark about their activities in the vicinity of the town of Hormigueros, Puerto Rico, and used extremely poor judgment in the timing of the attempted arrest. We request further, that if this independent investigation determines that violations of laws, rules or regulations did in fact take place, those responsible be brought to justice. Several aspects of this incident stand out: Lack of Coordination The FBI acted in Puerto Rico in a manner that can only be described as colonialist. For example, the government of Puerto Rico waited for many hours before there was any official FBI confirmation of the death of Mr. Ojeda. The governor of Puerto Rico said his government frantically tried to obtain information from the FBI, which was not forthcoming. The first official statement of the FBI concerning a situation that had the attention of all of the people on the island, its government and its media, came 17 hours after it was first known that the FBI had initiated an action against Mr. Ojeda. In addition, we have been informed that the FBI disregarded local law and authority and disconnected electrical service to the whole neighborhood where the house of Mr. Ojeda Rios was located. Excessive force Mr. Ojeda was a fugitive who had an arrest order against him. Clearly, Mr. Ojeda was armed. On the other hand, he was 72 years old, and was alone with his wife in their house at the time of the FBI action. We are astonished that more resources were not assigned to this case to ensure a peaceful solution and a live arrest of Mr. Ojeda. We have all witnessed the arrests of armed individuals in the past, but usually as the result of the deployment of superior forces, negotiation, and the use of time and patience. The people of Puerto Rico, and those who respect constitutionally-protected civil and human rights, demand and deserve an explanation as to why in this case those kinds of resources and methods were not used to arrest Mr. Ojeda alive. Death It has been reported that Mr. Ojeda died from loss of blood from a bullet wound received during his armed confrontation with FBI agents. Puerto Rican state's attorneys were at the scene as of 6:00 p.m. on September 23rd. They were not allowed access to Mr. Ojeda’s house. In fact, it is reported that no Puerto Rican officials were allowed access there until around 1:00 p.m. on Saturday, September 24th. Dr. Hector Pesquera arrived at the police-cordoned area adjacent to Mr. Ojeda’s house around 5:00 pm on Friday, September 23, and asked to be allowed to enter the premises to offer Mr. Ojeda medical attention. He was never allowed to go in. The suspicion stands, as voiced by many Puerto Rican leaders of all political ideologies, that the FBI knew Mr. Ojeda was wounded and allowed him to bleed to death. Only an independent, impartial investigation of the facts can determine the truth of this matter. Context The FBI has formally acknowledged that “in the past” it persecuted advocates for the independence of Puerto Rico, as documented, among many other sources, by more than 1.8 million pages of internal documents released by the FBI itself. Clearly, the persecution of any political group in Puerto Rico for advocating a position regarding the ultimate status of the island constitutes an undue interference with the right of the people of Puerto Rico to self-determination. Given the above, why were the local authorities in Puerto Rico never informed of the impending action of the FBI against a recognized figure in the pro-independence movement? Clearly, the implications of such an action were just too controversial not to have a minimum of coordination with local elected and constitutional authorities. Timing September 23rd is the date when Puerto Ricans observe Grito de Lares, an insurrection against Spanish colonialism and oppression that took place in Puerto Rico in 1868. Most Puerto Ricans and historians agree that that date marks the international declaration of the existence of the Puerto Rican nation. Was the FBI aware that any action taken on this particular day against a renowned leader of a group that advocates for the independence of Puerto Rico would be almost universally interpreted as a provocation and an insult? Whether the FBI was aware of this or not, taking an aggressive action against a figure such as Mr. Ojeda on that particular day was ill advised. “Arrest” of Mr. Ojeda’s wife On its press release of Saturday morning, the FBI indicated that Mr. Ojeda’s wife had been “arrested” and was in a safe location under custody of the FBI. However, Mrs. Ojeda did not have access to legal counsel until she was released from custody many hours later. No charges were filed against her. We believe this also merits an investigation. We are aware that an FBI agent was severely wounded during the raid. We pray for his rapid and full recovery. We believe that, as the FBI conducts its important duty to protect the country from criminal activity, it is critical that it maintains a very rigorous respect and observance for the rule of law and upholds the values that we hold dear. In this situation, this has been called into question. We believe that only a prompt, impartial, and independent investigation can determine the truth in this matter. Given the urgent circumstances related herein, we would like to request a response from you no later than close of business Thursday, September 29. Thank you for your attention to our concerns. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Luis V. Gutiérrez Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
09.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 25, 2005 Serrano, Velázquez, Gutierrez to Seek Answers in Ojeda Rios Killing Washington, D.C.—Today, Representatives José E. Serrano, (D-NY); Nydia Velazquez (D-NY); and Luis Gutierrez, (D-IL) questioned the actions of the FBI that led to the killing of Filiberto Ojeda Rios on Friday. The three U.S. Representatives will send a letter to FBI director Robert Mueller on Monday morning seeking answers. The letter will be made public after it has been sent. Congressman Serrano said: “Ojeda Rios was wanted on a robbery charge. This is usually handled without the end result being the death of the person they are looking for. It is strange to me that this man was killed on September 23rd, and in a way that is very suspicious. My main concern is that this could be, once again, a certain behavior that we have deplored in the past from the FBI and other federal authorities. We have not yet concluded the full disclosure of the FBI files that showed the historical harassment and attacks on the members of the independence movement. I will be calling on the FBI to inform me of the details that led to this violent end for Mr. Ojeda Rios.” Congressman Gutierrez said: “We all have serious questions about what happened in Hormigueros between the FBI and Filiberto Ojeda Rios. Along with my colleagues, I plan to find out answers and make sure that if there were indeed failures to respect the law on the part of the FBI, people are held responsible. It is important that the FBI explain fully and openly what happened on September 23rd. The Puerto Rican people deserve no less.” Congresswoman Velázquez said: “The details we have heard surrounding this case so far are simply questionable. That is why we are now calling on the FBI to provide answers as to just what happened. The people of Puerto Rico deserve full disclosure and nothing less.” # # #
09.22.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:September 22, 2005Contact: Philip Schmidt(202) 225-4361Serrano: Proposed Republican Cuts To Military Families and the Poor to Pay for Katrina Reconstruction Are ImmoralWashington, D.C.—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano blasted the proposed spending cuts to pay for the Hurricane Katrina reconstruction put forward by a group of Republican members of Congress. The cuts would fall on the poor, disabled and members of the military—in short those who can least afford further cuts in service. Notably, the proposal did not even consider repealing $336 billion in new tax cuts that the richest 1 percent of Americans are scheduled to receive over the next five years. “Paying for the reconstruction in of the Gulf Coast by cutting services to the poor, elderly, and military families is just plain wrong,” said Congressman Serrano. “This disaster opened our nation’s eyes to the ravages of poverty. Our first step in the reconstruction should not be to gut the very programs that these people depend on. “Similarly, military personnel in harm’s way in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Iraq should not have to worry that their health benefits could be cut to pay for the clean up. Whatever your position is on the war, we can all agree that the troops deserve guaranteed basic services, and that these benefits should not be threatened, no matter what. “We agreed as a nation to pay for this effort. We must pay for it in a manner that does not hurt the most vulnerable, and hurt those already serving our country.” The Republican Study Committee’s proposal included a myriad of spending cuts aimed at programs that help Americans living in poverty as well as those squarely in the middle class. The elderly and military families would also be affected by the plan. Among many other cuts in service, the proposal would increase Medicaid premiums; impose a Medicare Home Health co-payment of 10 percent; and trim military quality-of-life programs, including health care. “These cuts are scandalous and immoral. Should we not protect the weakest members of society? Why must they bear the financial burden for a responsibility that we all agree should fall on our whole nation? Why is repealing the tax cut for the richest American not a part of their proposal?” Congressman Serrano asked. “The truth is that cutting these programs has long been a goal of these members, who dislike government, no matter what its benefit. They are capitalizing on a natural disaster to try to push their extreme ideology on the American people.”###
09.20.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 20, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Serrano Seeks Explanation, Apology for Mack Comments About Bronx Constituents Washington, DC—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent the following letter to Congressman Connie Mack (R-FL) regarding his comments denigrating Serrano’s constituents in the press. September 20, 2005 The Honorable Connie Mack U.S. House of Representatives 317 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Congressman Mack: While attending the United Nations meeting in New York City , President Hugo Chávez of visited my Congressional District in the Bronx . He visited The Point, a community development organization, and spoke at the Latino Pastoral Action Center , a faith-based organization. At both places, President Chávez both listened and spoke to the people. There was a sharing of culture and ideas and an interest on both sides to learn more. What took place at these events was diplomacy at its best – a President meeting directly with the American people. It was truly moving to witness the excitement on both sides of the exchange. So you can imagine how stunned I was to read your recent comments in the Associated Press article by Christopher Toothaker on September 20, 2005, saying that President Chávez’s rhetoric was only enticing to “those people that oppose freedom and dislike the ”. Who are the people that you are referring to? Are they my constituents? My constituents care deeply about their country. They are serving in , and they died during the tragedy of 9/11. They are also open to sharing their thoughts, ideas and dreams with a foreign leader. I am deeply saddened and disturbed by your remarks. If you were referring to my constituents in the Bronx , both they and I would appreciate an apology. I look forward to hearing from you and if you want to see people who truly care about our country, please come and visit my district. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
09.15.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 15, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Congressman José E. Serrano Welcomes Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez in The Bronx Washington, DC—Congressman José E. Serrano and Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez will appear at two events in The Bronx on Saturday, September 17th. The schedule of events open to the press is listed below. Because of space constraints and security concerns, it is strongly suggested that members of the media RSVP to Philip Schmidt (contact information above) and bring official accreditation to all events. 11:30 a.m. Community reception for President Chávez at The Point Community Development Corporation. Location: The Point Community Development Organization 940 Garrison Ave Bronx, NY 10474 1:00 p.m. Remarks: President Chávez, Congressman Serrano and Reverend Ray Rivera of Latino Pastoral Action Center Remarks will be in Spanish, and simultaneous translation will be available. Location: Latino Pastoral Action Center 14 W 170th St Bronx, NY 10452
09.15.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 15, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Congressman José Serrano Commemorates National Hispanic Heritage Month Washington DC, September 15, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano entered the following statement into the Congressional Record to commemorate the start of National Hispanic Heritage Month. “Mr. Speaker, it is with great pleasure that I rise today to pay tribute to National Hispanic Heritage Month. During this month, celebrates the traditions, ancestry, and unique experiences of those who trace their roots to , the countries of Central and South America, the Caribbean and and we thank them for the many contributions they have made to this nation.” “Unlike any other country on earth, thrives on its ability to attract people of all faiths, colors and creeds to reside within its borders. Such mixing of cultural knowledge and experiences has helped this country to become the greatest nation the world has ever known. Moreover, as a Puerto Rican, I am very proud of the contributions Hispanics have made and continue to make to this cultural mosaic. “Hispanic influence on American culture is evident from every aspect of American life including music, film, food, arts, sports and politics. Economically, culturally, and politically, Latinos are an integral part of our nation. As we celebrate this special month I would like to pay special tribute to those who were Hispanic trailblazers and helped to bring the rich culture of the Hispanic people to the . As a Hispanic Member of Congress, I along with the rest of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, follow in the footsteps of great pioneers such as Joseph Marion Hernandez who became the first Hispanic to serve as a member of the United States Congress in 1822. Roberto Clementé, Celia Cruz, Raul Julia and countless others helped to open doors in their respective fields enabling the Hispanics of today to share their rich history and culture with all Americans. “As we forge ahead in the 21st century we must continue to work to guarantee that is not only rich with diversity but equality as well. I am committed to ensuring that Hispanics are able to enjoy a higher standard of living for generations to come. It is important that Hispanics become home owners, attend institutions of higher learning, earn higher wages and receive quality healthcare. The success of this nation depends upon the success of all its citizens. “Mr. Speaker, for their many contributions to our nation and culture, and for their unyielding drive to achieve the American dream, I ask my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to Hispanic Americans during Hispanic Heritage Month.”
09.06.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 6, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Serrano and Grijalva: State Dept. Should Let Cuban Doctors Help Katrina Victims Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) sent a letter to the State Department urging the federal government to accept ’s offer to send 1,100 doctors with supplies to provide relief along the Gulf Coast . A copy of the letter follows. Calls for medical assistance and supplies from the disaster areas have been clear. The Cuban doctors would undoubtedly be able to help people. This generous Cuban offer, in spite of its apolitical nature, is currently under review. In times of national tragedy, no assistance should be rejected on the basis of politics. *** September 6, 2005 The Honorable Condoleezza Rice Secretary of State Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Rice: We are all so saddened by the immense human suffering and devastation that has occurred as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Our hearts are with those who have lost so much and we are sure that you would agree that we must do all that we can to help to alleviate the hardship of those who have lost everything. has generously offered to send 1,100 medical doctors with the appropriate medications to help to address the health needs of those who require medical attention as a result of the hurricane. We know that the current medical personnel who are on the ground are exhausted and that the additional assistance would be appreciated. We urge you to put aside politics and accept this generous offer that has been made without any conditions attached. This is the time for compassion to take precedence over political differences and we stand ready to help facilitate this transfer of medical assistance. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Raúl M.Grijalva Member of Congress Member of Congress
08.31.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 31, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Serrano Sends Condolences to Hurricane Katrina Victims Washington, DC— Today, Congressman José E. Serrano sent the following message to the victims of Hurricane Katrina: “I send my deepest sympathies to the victims of Hurricane Katrina in Lousiana, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida, especially those who have lost family members, friends and loved ones. All the victims of this disaster are in our thoughts and prayers.” “In these situations of natural disaster, all Americans find themselves drawn together in solidarity with the affected communities. The scenes of devastation are heart-wrenching, and on behalf of the people of the Bronx, I extend our deepest condolences and wishes for a speedy return to normalcy. “On my website, http://www.house.gov/serrano, I have listed the contact information for multiple relief agencies for those interested in helping the victims. I know that the people of New York and my district will help as much as they are able.”
08.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 26, 2005 Contact:Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Serrano: Bush Must Denounce Robertson Comments Continued Silence Signals Double Standard Washington, DC— Congressman José E. Serrano repeated his call today for a full denunciation by the Bush Administration of Reverend Pat Robertson’s despicable comments calling for Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez’ assassination. As of today, all the State Department has said is that the comments were “inappropriate.” Their hesitance to forcefully condemn the comments, which called for an act of terrorism, sends the signal that they have a double standard in the war on terror. “The administration must denounce the Robertson remarks in no uncertain terms,” said Congressman Serrano. “Anything less could be seen as a double standard, which would potentially harm our efforts to fight terrorism in all its forms. With our nation’s security on the line, no one gets a free pass to make these sorts of comments, no matter what their connection to the administration or political view.” On Tuesday State Department spokesperson Sean McCormack called Robertson's remarks "inappropriate." While Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said "certainly it's against the law. Our department doesn't do that type of thing," he added the caveat that "private citizens say all kinds of things all the time." Robertson, a conservative leader with a sprawling religious organization, apologized for his comments, but later asserted that we are still threatened in the Hemisphere by Chavez. The White House has continued to maintain complete silence on the issue. “With our nation at war on terrorism, we need true leadership,” said Congressman Serrano. “True leaders do not have double standards and do not excuse the transgressions of their friends and allies. This administration seems to do just that. I repeat my call for a full repudiation and denouncement of Robertson’s comments by the President himself. Hopefully the President can take a few moments to do this and thereby bolster our efforts in the war on terror. Anything less is truly unacceptable.”
08.22.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 22, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Serrano Denounces Robertson Comments Advocating Chavez Assassination WASHINGTON, D.C.August 22, 2005 -- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on Reverend Pat Robertson’s immoral call for the assassination of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela: “Reverend Pat Robertson’s statement advocating assassinating President Hugo Chavez was beyond the pale” said Congressman Serrano. “President Chavez is the democratically-elected leader of the Venezuelan people. He has been repeatedly targeted by this administration and its proxies with the worst kind of character assassination, solely because they disagree with his social and economic policies. Now it seems that their campaign has turned into one of overt intimidation.” “Assassination should never again be an instrument of US foreign policy. We must respect the democratic process in Latin America even if some in this country disagree with its outcomes. Pat Robertson calls himself a man of God. It is extremely distressing to hear that someone who claims to hear the call of the Lord would advocate for breaking one of his commandments. “A full retraction and apology is warranted from Rev. Robertson. The State Department and this administration should denounce this statement."
08.17.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:August 17, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Serrano Blasts Rumsfeld’s Statement on and ’s Involvement in Latin America Washington, DC, August 17, 2005 – Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement on Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld’s baseless assertion that and have been involved in “unhelpful ways” in the recent turmoil in . “Secretary Rumsfeld is following the careless and dangerous line that this administration has always held on , though now they have added to their equation” said Congressman Serrano. “For the past five decades we blamed every time impoverished people in Latin America were upset with their government and did something about it. Now the formula is that and are to blame. “When will we realize that it is these people’s unmet needs at the root of their discontent, and not the agitation of other nations? The real causes of these uprisings are problems like hunger, lack of employment and inadequate educational opportunities. If this administration is serious about stemming discontent in Latin America and around the world, the solution is to respect our Latin American neighbors and to provide social and economic aid to the people. The administration’s ‘solution’ of blanket condemnations and skewed trade agreements will never work. Congressman Serrano said: “The truth of the matter is that the Bush Administration is unhappy that the people of democratically elected a president who does not pledge full allegiance to American interests. Therefore they cannot resist attacking President Hugo Chavez every chance they get and blaming him for every development in the region that they dislike. Again, it is time for these false statements and innuendos to stop.”
08.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:August 16, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Congressman José E. Serrano Continues to Oppose Power Plant at Oak Point Washington, DC, August 16, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano reaffirmed his opposition the siting of a proposed 1,000 megawatt power plant on a 28-acre brownfield at Oak Point, near 149th Street and the East River in the South Bronx. The following are excerpts from a letter he sent to Mayor Bloomberg on this issue in late July. For full text of the letter see Congressman Serrano’s website at http://www.house.gov/serrano. “I clearly stated my opposition to a power plant on this site when ABB proposed a similar project in 1999. I believe that such a plant would increase the already harmful levels of air pollution in the surrounding neighborhoods while providing few local benefits to area residents.” “I ask that the City consult with my constituents and engage them in a community planning process to determine the best use for this, the largest undeveloped parcel in the southern half of my district. This is especially important to me in light of the nearly $300,000 in federal funds I have helped secure for local groups to study potential reuses for this and other brownfield sites in the Hunts Point, Port Morris, and Mott Haven communities. “The South Bronx bears the municipal burden of much regional infrastructure that negatively impacts the health of my constituents and the quality of life in their neighborhoods. My district is the host community for sewage and sludge treatment plants, nearly a third of the City's waste transfer stations, and the world’s largest food distribution center. Nearly 15,000 diesel trucks enter the Hunts Point peninsula each day. Furthermore, the South Bronx was targeted as recently as 2001 for the joint siting of two 79.9 megawatt power plants—just shy of the 80 megawatt standard required for an environmental review—worsening the already poor air quality. “The proven correlation between high levels of diesel soot, power plant pollution, and the scourge of childhood asthma and adult respiratory problems is nowhere more evident than in my home district. Understanding the direct connection between urban planning, siting decisions and the health and quality of life of a community, the people of the South Bronx can and should be involved in the decision making process for the development of the Oak Point site.”
08.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:August 16, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Congressman Serrano Supports Metro-North Station at New Yankee Stadium Washington, DC, August 16, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) issued the following statement on a Metro-North station at the new Yankee Stadium: “After years of planning that focused on keeping the Yankees in the Bronx, I fully expect that MTA will move forward in planning and building a Metro-North station at the new Yankee Stadium. I recently secured $2.4 million in federal funding to help get the project underway. I am glad to be the first elected official to put money toward this important goal.” “It is clear to me that this station stop will eventually become a reality for several reasons. First, elected officials from all levels of government support building a station—I am sure they will move toward fully funding it. In fact, the station is part of MTA’s 2000-2004 capital plan, which sets spending priorities for the agency and helps guide the decision-making of public officials. Secondly, the general public supports building a station. The station will help increase mass transit options in the South Bronx, an area overburdened with vehicular traffic, especially on game days. Finally, I believe the project just plain makes sense to ease traffic congestion in and around the Yankee stadium area and the 161st Street corridor. “I am proud to be a lifelong Yankee fan. I am also proud to be in a position to help keep the Yankees in the Bronx, where they belong. A rail station will bring the joy of seeing baseball games in person to many generations of fans in the future—that is something I truly support.”
08.14.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 4, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Serrano Presents Check for $16 million in Bronx Transportation Improvements Washington, DC, August 4, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano presented a check for $16 million for transportation improvements in the Bronx to Borough President Adolfo Carrión Jr. The funds are slated to fund a series of important transportation improvements in the Bronx. The ceremony took place at the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. “These funds are critical to responding to the transportation needs of the people of the Bronx,” Congressman Serrano said. “I’m proud to have been able to secure funding for these much-needed projects. They will help make the Bronx a more pedestrian- and commuter-friendly borough.” “I’m particularly pleased to be able to help fund the construction of the Yankee Stadium Metro-North station, which will allow Yankee fans from around the city and region to easily access Yankee Stadium. The rehabilitation of High Bridge , a historic part of New York City infrastructure, will allow it to quickly become what it deserves to be—a local treasure and a tourist destination. Meanwhile, I know that improving the Grand Concourse and reconstructing the step streets are no less important to Bronx residents.” Congressman Serrano said “the input and collaboration with the Bronx Borough President was invaluable in identifying and planning the projects that we wanted to fund. I thank Borough President Carrión for his partnership.” “This $16 million in much needed transportation improvements will have a major impact on the entire borough” Bronx Borough President Adolfo Carrión Jr. said. “Improvements to the Grand Concourse, funding for a Metro-North Station near the stadium, the rehab of the High Bridge , reconstruction of the borough’s step streets and funding for the zoo will make it easier to move around the borough and more importantly, it will attract more visitors to the Bronx. This has been another successful collaboration between my office and Congressman Serrano; I applaud the Congressman for recognizing the value in investing in the Bronx.” Among the projects being funded are: Phase 2 of the Grand Concourse improvements from East 166th to East 171st Street, making the Grand Concourse a safer and more pedestrian friendly boulevard. Funding provided: $8 million. Beginning construction of a Metro-North station at Yankee Stadium. Funding provided: $2,400,000 Reconstruction of pedestrian walkways in the Bronx, particularly repairing and restoring the Borough's historic “step streets.” Funding provided: $800,000 Rehabilitation of the historic High Bridge between the Bronx and Manhattan. Funding provided: $4 million The construction of an intermodal transportation facility at the Bronx Zoo. Funding provided: $836,000. Congressman Serrano successfully included these projects for the Bronx in the House of Representatives' bill to reauthorize funds for Federal-aid highways, highway safety programs, and transit programs that passed both chambers of Congress on July 29, 2005. The bill will fund projects in these areas through fiscal year 2009.
08.11.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:August 11, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Congressman José E. Serrano Salutes Yankee Great Mariano Rivera Washington, DC, August 11, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano saluted Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera for his achievements and dedication to helping Latino youths. Rivera was awarded 2004 Latino MVP Relief Pitcher of the Year given by Latino Sports and the Latino Sports Writers & Broadcasters Association (LSWBA) at a luncheon at Yankee Stadium. “Mariano Rivera is one of the most dominant pitchers of the past few decades, and he also exemplifies the idea of an athlete as a role model. He is proof of the great contributions Latinos continue to make to this country. While I am proud of the many championships Rivera has helped to bring to the city of New York, I am more proud of the fact that he has helped to improve the lives of many young people in the South Bronx” said Congressman Serrano Latino Sports and the LSWBA honor an outstanding player every year with their Latino MVP award. Latino Sports, a South Bronx-based organization, has been honoring outstanding players for the past 15 years. The Latino MVP is one of the most respected awards given by the Latino community to Latino baseball players. Rivera was chosen for the 2004 award not only for his great accomplishments on the mound, but also for his dedication to the Latino community. “I applaud Latino Sports and the Latino Sports Writers & Broadcasters Association for their invaluable efforts to recognize the many important contributions that Latino athletes have made to their sports and to their communities. Latino Sports is a point of pride for the Bronx and for Latinos across the country” said Congressman Serrano.
08.10.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 10, 2005 Contact: Philip Schmidt (202) 225-4361 Representatives José Serrano, Raúl Grijalva, Barbara Lee Send Setter of Support to Nebraska Governor for his Cuba Trade Mission Letter Comes On the Heels of Hard-line Criticism of Governor Washington, DC, August 10, 2005—Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) sent a letter to Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman in support of his trade mission to Cuba. Although trip is perfectly legal under U.S. law, Governor Heineman has been under fire from some Cuba policy hard-liners in Congress. Representatives Serrano, Grijalva and Lee see agricultural trade as the type of activity that encourages good relations between the Cuban and American people. Recognizing the positive effects of these sales, and an excellent business opportunity for American growers, 38 states have signed agricultural trade agreements worth close to $1 billion as of today. Elected officials in those states have realized that, as the letter says, agricultural trade is a non-partisan, non-ideological issue and that agricultural trade with Cuba can help improve the basic welfare of the people of that nation. The text of the letter follows below. *** Washington, DC August 10, 2005 Governor Dave Heineman Office of the Governor P.O. Box 94848 Lincoln, NE 68509-4848 Dear Governor Heineman, We write today to express our support for your upcoming trade mission to Cuba. We urge you not to be intimidated by a vocal minority who advocate misguided policies towards that nation. As you may know, the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 exempts commercial sales of agricultural and medical products to from the longstanding trade embargo. Agricultural trade with Cuba has quickly developed into a mutually beneficial arrangement that has helped farmers and ranchers here in the United States, as well as the public health of many Cubans. Currently, 38 U.S. states have signed agreements to export to Cuba, and the value of total U.S. exports of agricultural products to Cuba is approximately $1 billion. Clearly, Nebraska is not alone in its desire to expand legal trade with Cuba. You may have heard some argue that any food you help sell to Cuba does not benefit the Cuban people. This is simply untrue. The Cuban people are benefiting from high quality products shipped at lower costs from our nation. Their nutritional intake and quality of life is enhanced as they are able to buy more of the same product for less. Simply put, agricultural trade between the United States and Cuba is valuable to the people of both nations. We are aware that several of our colleagues in Congress have written in opposition to your trip, and have tried to connect the issue of agricultural trade to Cuba to the political structure of that nation. We urge you to reject that notion. Agricultural trade with Cuba can help improve the basic welfare of the people of that nation. It is a non-partisan, non-ideological issue that should not be caught up in political rhetoric and posturing. We applaud your efforts to maintain a non-partisan stance on this issue. Furthering the development of trade between your state and Cuba can only benefit the agricultural producers of Nebraska. Our best wishes on a successful trip. Sincerely, Rep. José E. Serrano Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Raúl Grijalva
07.29.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 29, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano to March in Hunts Point’s 2nd Annual Fish Parade and Festival WHAT: Congressman Serrano to March in Hunts Point’s 2nd Annual Fish Parade, and will speak at the 13th Annual Hunts Point Festival WHEN: Saturday, July 30, 2005 Parade begins at 11:00 AM, Festival Begins at 1:00 PM WHERE: Parade begins at Manida Ball Field (Manida Street, between Spofford and Lafayette Avenues, in front of the Hunts Point Recreation Center ), and runs throughout the Hunts Point and Longwood neighborhoods Festival takes place at Hunts Point Avenue between Garrison and Seneca Avenues WEBSITE: For more information about the parade and festival, please visit: http://www.thepoint.org/aboutus/FishParade05.html The Fish Parade was first conceived as an expression of community pride for the Bronx and East River waterfronts and an opportunity to showcase the work of visual and performing artists who call the Hunts Point and Longwood communities home. After winding through the streets of Hunts Point and Longwood, the parade will conclude at the Summer Festival on Hunts Point Avenue. Between 1:00 and 5:00 PM, the Festival will feature a main stage with live entertainment and performances of artists participating in Action Lab, led by Hunts Point-based internationally acclaimed choreographer Arthur Aviles. Vendor tents will highlight the foods, local art scene and work of nearby educational, arts, health and environmental organizations. Additionally, a children’s corner at Seneca Avenue will host a variety of activities for children. All events will be sponsored by The Point Community Development Corporation, SEBCO Development, Inc. and The Bronx Museum @ The Point Action Lab Collaborative Arts Project.
07.29.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 29, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Secures Over $15 million for Bronx Transportation Projects Washington, DC, July 29, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) announced his success in securing more than $15 million in transportation funds for the Bronx in the House of Representatives’ bill to reauthorize funds for Federal-aid highways, highway safety programs, and transit programs that passed today. “H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users” reauthorizes federal-aid highway, mass-transit and road-safety programs through fiscal year 2009, providing approximately $244 billion for the next five years. “I am very happy that we were able to make sure that the Bronx receives its fair share of these vital federal transportation funds,” said Serrano. “From step street and Grand Concourse improvements to High Bridge rehabilitation and Metro North station improvement and construction, this bill will help to address the transportation needs of many thousands of Bronxites.” In the bill, Congressman Serrano was able to secure funds for projects that are of vital importance to the Bronx and New York City in general: $8,000,000 to construct Phase 2 of the Grand Concourse improvements from East 166th to East 171st Street. $800,000 to reconstruct pedestrian walkways in the Bronx, particularly fixing up the Borough’s “step streets.” $4,000,000 for the rehabilitation of the High Bridge between the Bronx and Manhattan. $2,400,000 for: the completion of the Penn Station/East Side Access Programs; the upgrade of Metro North stations in the Bronx and to begin construction of a MetroNorth station at Yankee Stadium. Close to $1 million for the construction of an intermodal transportation facility at the Bronx Zoo
07.27.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 27, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano/Velázquez Letter to Secretary Gutierrez Washington, DC, July 27, 2005--Last night, Congressmembers José E. Serrano and Nydia Velázquez sent the following letter to Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez. A copy of the original will be made available shortly at the top of Congressman Serrano’s website, http://www.house.gov/serrano: July 26, 2005 The Honorable Carlos M. Gutierrez Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary 14th and Constitution Ave. NW, Room 5516 Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Gutierrez: Every year, the Pastors for Peace caravan delivers hundreds of tons of humanitarian aid to the people of . On Thursday, July 21, when this year’s 150-member caravan attempted to cross the U.S.-Mexico border with 140 tons of humanitarian aid and hurricane relief supplies en route to , it was stopped. Although most of the desperately needed assistance and caravan members were subsequently allowed to cross, 43 boxes of computer equipment were seized at the border. This computer equipment was intended to go to schools for children with special needs such as visual impairments and learning disabilities. These harsh actions came just two weeks after Hurricane Dennis struck and caused widespread suffering. Businesses, schools, clinics and hospitals were destroyed, and many Cubans have been left homeless or without electricity, water, and natural gas. We call on you, Mr. Secretary, to show compassion and permit the release of this computer equipment, so that the entire shipment may successfully reach . With your help, this year’s Pastors for Peace caravan can complete its humanitarian mission to alleviate the hardship of the Cuban people during their time of great need. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Nydia M.Velázquez Member of Congress Member of Congress
07.23.2005	Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 On Third Anniversary of Infamous Downing Street Meetings, Serrano Calls For Investigation, Bringing Troops Home Washington, DC, July 23, 2005—Marking the third anniversary of the controversial Downing Street meetings, during which it was revealed that the Bush administration was determined to push ahead against Iraq regardless of its “thin case” for war, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) criticized the U.S.’s continuing military involvement in Iraq and called for an investigation into the events that brought us to war. “How many more of our young people will have to die for George Bush and Karl Rove’s war of choice?” asked Serrano. “The Downing Street Memos clearly document what little regard the administration had for the truth in their march toward war; they were determined to go into no matter what the facts. The memos also show how little they cared about planning for the war’s aftermath, and our troops continue to suffer the consequences. On this third anniversary of the Downing Street meetings, the time has come for us to re-evaluate both our role in this war and the judgment of those who pushed us into it. As we have seen with Karl Rove’s outing of an undercover CIA operative, the administration knew no limits in its push toward war. I want to see some subpoenas handed out.” The Downing Street meetings, held July 23, 2002, almost a year before the start of the war in , involved senior British officials, including Richard Dearlove, then head of MI6, British intelligence, who had just returned from consultations in Washington. According to classified minutes of the meeting, recently released, Dearlove reported that “Military action was now seen as inevitable in Washington and that Bush wanted to remove Saddam, through military action, justified by the conjunction of terrorism and WMD [weapons of mass destruction]. But the intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy. The NSC [National Security Council] had no patience with the UN route, and no enthusiasm for publishing material on the Iraqi regime's record. There was little discussion in Washington of the aftermath after military action.” “The case was thin,” summarized the notes taken by a British national security aide at the meeting. “Saddam was not threatening his neighbours and his WMD capability was less than that of , or .” “These meeting minutes really spell out the depth of the Bush administration’s penchant for deception when it came to pushing us toward war,” said Serrano. “Facts and evidence were unimportant. Bush and his people wanted war, period. That they have not been held accountable for their repeated lies is outrageous. “And as we reflect on the events that led us to war, we must also look toward bringing an end to this national tragedy. Our continued presence there is making many Iraqis more sympathetic to our enemies. The time has come to bring our troops home from .”
07.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:July 21, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = SKYPE />(202) 225-4361 FAMILY PUTS BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO SHAME: Retired Sacramento Social Worker, Outraged at Stingy Bush Offer, Pledges $50,000 in Humanitarian Aid for ; Serrano Applauds Action, Criticizes Administration’s “Immoral and Senseless Policy” Washington, DC, July 21, 2005—Outraged by the US government’s paltry offer of $50,000 to Cuba for hurricane relief, Ruth Foote, a retired social worker, and her husband Fred Foote, a local college teacher, announced that they intend to dig into their savings to personally contribute $50,000 to Pastors for Peace for hurricane relief efforts in Cuba. The African-American couple from Sacramento, California , is not rich, has never been to , and is not connected to Pastors for Peace or any other group opposed to the embargo. For them, this is a matter of simple human solidarity. Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), pushing to temporarily relax restrictions on aid to Cubans by their family-members in the , applauded their action. “This modest family has made a statement of our common humanity, and our responsibility for helping those in need during this time of crisis in ,” said Serrano. “Their action brings attention to the Bush administration’s insultingly stingy relief offer to . The Bush administration has handled this issue shamefully, playing politics with people’s lives, and I applaud the Foote family for so dramatically drawing attention to this national embarrassment.” "It's just outrageous that our government would insult the Cuban and American people in this way," said Foote. "I couldn't believe my ears when I heard it on the news.” She says that she called Pastors for Peace because she knew of their work challenging the current policy toward . "This blockade just doesn't make any sense," she said. "We welcome this news from the Foote family,” said Rev. Lucius Walker, Jr., executive director and founder of the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization (IFCO), a 38-year-old ecumenical agency which is the parent organization of Pastors for Peace. "As people of faith and conscience, it is our duty to resist and condemn this cruel, immoral, and illegal policy. The blockade endangers the lives of millions of Cubans and inflicts suffering on innocent children as well as adults. Ruth Foote is publicly declaring what the majority of people in the believe -- that this brutal economic blockade of needs to end." While Congressman Serrano is pushing for a complete end to the embargo, he is currently working to temporarily ease restrictions on family travel, gift parcels and remittances, in response to the immediate and catastrophic devastation of Hurricane Dennis. A bi-partisan coalition of forty-six Members of Congress have co-sponsored Serrano’s resolution (H.Con.Res. 206) calling for the easing of restrictions, and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops has announced its official support for the measure as well. A press conference officially announcing the Foote family’s donation will be held today in San Juan, TX . For additional information on the press conference, please call Ellen Bernstein: 646 319-5902
07.15.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 15, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Carta de Serrano Sobre La PRFAA / Serrano PRFAA Letter Washington, DC, July 15, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent the following letter in response to the news that the Puerto Rican Federal Affairs Agency (PRFAA) is planning on closing several of its field offices in the . An English-language translation is below this original letter: El 15 de Julio de 2005 Aníbal Acevedo-Vila, Gobernador Kenneth McClintock, Presidente del Senado José Aponte, Presidente de la Cámara de Representantes Eduardo Bhatia, Director Ejecutivo de PRFAA Estimados Amigos: Les escribo para expresar mi preocupación con el cierre inminente de oficinas de PRFAA aquí en los Estados. Según El Nuevo Día de hoy, las oficinas de PRFAA en Cleveland, Los Angeles, y Houston van a ser cerradas y existe una gran posibilidad del cierre de más oficinas, incluso la de Nueva York. Sin duda, ésta sería una gran pérdida para nuestra comunidad boricua aquí. Las oficinas de PRFAA juegan un papel muy importante para mucha de nuestra gente, especialmente para nuestros envejecientes, ayudando con documentos, servicios, y otras necesidades oficiales. Como es de esperarse, ustedes saben que apoyo firmemente que estas oficinas continúen dando servicio a la comunidad. Sé que el debate político sigue siendo muy difícil por allá, pero sería una gran lástima si se pierden los servicios principales de las oficinas de PRFAA. La PRFAA es para toda la comunidad puertorriqueña. El trabajo de la Agencia es necesario y no debe ser politizado. Específicamente, creo que la PRFAA debe enfocar sus esfuerzos en proyectos y en cabildeo que nos unen como comunidad, no en asuntos divisivos como el estatus político de la isla. Si les interesa dialogar sobre esto en particular, por favor déjenme saber. Se pueden comunicar en mi oficina aquí en Washington en el (202) 225-4361. Con mis cordiales saludos, permanezco a sus órdenes, José E. Serrano Miembro del Congreso ENGLISH VERSION July 15, 2005 Aníbal Acevedo-Vila, Governor Kenneth McClintock, Senate President José Aponte, President of the House of Representatives Eduardo Bhatia, Executive Director of PRFAA Dear Friends: I write to you to express my concern over the imminent closing of PRFAA offices here in the States. According to today’s El Nuevo Dia, the PRFAA offices in Cleveland, Los Angeles, and Houston will be closed and there is a strong possibility that more offices will be closed, including New York’s. Without a doubt, this would be a terrible loss for our boricua community here. The PRFAA offices play an important role for many of our people, especially for seniors, helping with documents, services, and other official needs. I firmly hope that these offices continue providing services to the community. I know that the political debate is very difficult there, but it would be a real shame if the important services that the PRFAA offices provide were to be lost. PRFAA is for the entire Puerto Rican community. The work of the Agency is necessary and it shouldn’t be politicized. Specifically, I believe that PRFAA should focus its work on projects and advocacy that unite us as a community, not on divisive issues such as that of the political status of the island. If you would like to speak with me about this issue, please let me know. You can reach me at my office in Washington at (202) 225-4361. With my warmest regards, I remain sincerely yours, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
07.13.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 13, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano: Rove Is a National Security Risk and Should Be Fired “Dignity and Credibility of Presidency At Stake; A Man Who Puts Partisan Politics Over Our National Security Does Not Belong in a Place of Public Trust” Washington, DC, July 13, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) issued the following statement calling for the firing of White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove and expressing his support for the investigation into Rove’s actions: “Too much evidence points to Rove’s having been the key source of this treacherous leak. Rove’s continuing presence at the White House, so close to the Oval Office, is a stain on the dignity of the Presidency and an insult to our intelligence community. His apparent involvement with this leak shows how desperate he was to suppress public debate over the Bush administration’s sham justification for war. Someone who so blatantly puts partisan politics over the safety and effectiveness of our intelligence personnel does not belong in a place of public trust. “The President told us that he would fire the White House staffer who had leaked Plame’s identity. Mr. President, you need to keep your promise to the American people and extricate yourself from this increasingly damaging scandal. The dignity and credibility of the Presidency is at stake and our ability to safeguard overseas assets and sensitive intelligence gathering methods is at risk.”
07.12.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 12, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 In Wake of Hurricane Dennis, Serrano Introduces Resolution Calling For Temporary Easing of Restrictions Washington, DC, July 12, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) introduced a Congressional resolution asking the President to “temporarily suspend restrictions on remittances, gift parcels, and family travel to Cuba to allow Cuban-Americans to assist their relatives in Cuba in the aftermath of Hurricane Dennis.” The resolution comes in response to the devastation of Hurricane Dennis, which has destroyed homes, businesses, schools, clinics, and hospitals throughout and left many Cubans without electricity or water. Many Cuban-Americans are desperate to help their families in need on the island. However, current regulations place restrictions on the amount of money and even basic clothing or personal hygiene items that can be sent to help them. “Hurricane Dennis has brought profound pain and suffering to people in the Southeast and throughout the Caribbean,” said Serrano. “Let’s put politics aside and temporarily relax the restrictions that are preventing Cuban-Americans from helping their families on the island. It’s the right thing to do, and it’s something everyone should be able to agree upon. This has been a terrible tragedy, and Cuban-Americans need to be allowed to help relieve some of the suffering of their families in .” Current restrictions prohibit Cuban-Americans from traveling to more than once every three years. They restrict the amount and frequency of remittances to their families in and also severely restrict gift parcels. Packages of any type of clothing are explicitly prohibited, as are packages including seeds, soap-making equipment, tampons, or toilet paper. A text of the resolution will be made available shortly on the front page of Congressman Serrano’s website: http://www.house.gov/serrano. Copies of the resolution are also available upon request.
07.11.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 11, 2005 Contact: Matt Alpert (202) 225-4361 Serrano Urges President to Put Compassion Above Politics in Helping Recover from Hurricane Dennis Washington, DC, July 11, 2005— Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent the following letter to President George W. Bush, asking him to temporarily suspend US restrictions on remittances and gift parcels that Cuban-Americans can send to their relatives in Cuba, to help in the recovery process after Hurricane Dennis: July 11, 2005 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write today about a matter of important humanitarian concern. As you know, Cuba was recently struck by Hurricane Dennis and suffered both loss of human life and property damage. In order to help Cuba with its recovery, I would like to request that there be a temporary suspension of all restrictions on remittances that Cuban-Americans can send to Cuba. At the present time, Cuban-Americans can only send $300 in remittances per quarter to immediate family members in Cuba, even if other relatives or friends are in need. During this time of humanitarian crisis, I would like to request that the limit on the amount of remittances be lifted and that Cuban-Americans be allowed to send the remittances to all who are suffering – whether they are aunts, uncles, cousins or even friends – as often as they wish. In addition, there should be a temporary lifting of restrictions on the items that can be sent in gift parcels. It would be helpful if family members were able to send personal hygiene items and clothing during this period of suffering. This is an opportunity for our country to show once again that it is capable of great compassion during a time of crisis. Mr. President, I would like to request that we put aside politics in this moment of great humanitarian need and instead extend a helping hand to our neighbor. I look forward to your response and with best wishes, I am Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
07.07.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 7, 2005 Contact: Matt Alpert (202) 225-4361 Serrano Responds to London Attacks Washington, DC, July 7, 2005— Today, Congressman José E. Serrano released the following statement on the terrorist attacks in London: “I am deeply shocked and saddened to hear of today’s attacks in London. This senseless loss of innocent life at the hands of terrorists is a tragedy for all peace-loving peoples of the world. I am sure that America and this Congress stand ready to provide whatever resources are necessary to assist our British friends as they respond to and recover from this tragedy. “I also want to commend the emergency personnel in London who responded to these attacks with such speed and selflessness. Their heroic actions remind us of the need to redouble our efforts to ensure that our own law enforcement personnel and first responders have all the resources they need to prevent and respond to terrorism. “I, along with all New Yorkers, send my deepest condolences to those who have lost loved ones. We stand in solemn solidarity with the British people on this difficult day.”
06.30.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 30, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano to honor Bronx Dominican Parade WHAT: Congressman Serrano to honor Bronx Dominican Parade WHEN: 2 PM, Tuesday, July 5, 2005 WHERE: Office of Congressman Serrano, 788 Southern Boulevard, Bronx, NY Please join us this Tuesday as Congressman Serrano honors the Bronx Dominican Parade and its 16 years of service to the Bronx and the Dominican community of New York. The parade organization’s reach extends beyond its very successful parade and festival, and includes scholarships, cultural events, and international humanitarian aid. Congressman Serrano will present the parade directors, Felipe Febles and Rosa Ayala, with a statement in the Congressional Record that acknowledges the organization’s contributions to the borough. In addition, the Congressman will recognize the significance of the Dominican community in the advancement of business, the arts, education and sports in the Bronx.
06.23.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 23, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Congressional Hispanic Caucus Slams Rove For Divisive Comments Washington, DC, June 23, 2005—Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) unanimously condemned White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove’s comments made at a Republican fundraiser in New York City last night. The Members of the Caucus called on President Bush to repudiate Rove’s remarks and demanded an apology from Rove. At the fundraiser, Rove accused Democrats of staging a weak response to the terrorist attacks of 9/11, claiming that while conservatives “saw the savagery of 9/11 in the attacks and prepared for war” liberals wanted to “offer therapy and understanding for our attackers.” He also attacked Democrats for calling for ''moderation and restraint'' after the terrorist attacks. The CHC expressed its outrage at Rove’s cheap attempt at politicizing the tragedy of 9/11, and quickly reminded Rove that there was no partisan divide in the nation’s post-9/11 response, when the House of Representatives authorized a swift and potent military response by a vote of 434-1. The Caucus also reiterated its long-standing support for troops and its commitment to provide adequate support for our national security including support for first responders. Hispanic Americans and Hispanic immigrants died in the tragedy of 9/11. Their deaths, and the deaths of thousands of others, were a tragedy mourned throughout the world. Today, Hispanics are fighting alongside other Americans, bravely defending this country with their lives on the front lines of and . To politicize their sacrifices and the sacrifices of all our troops is unacceptable. “That Karl Rove would travel to New York City, of all places, to trash-talk and question our commitment to America’s defense is repugnant; that he would mock Democrats’ efforts to protect the fundamental principles upon which our country was founded—free speech, civil liberties, and respect for human dignity—is downright embarrassing for him and the Administration,” said New Yorker and Caucus member Congressman José E. Serrano. “His tasteless partisanship attempts to reap cheap political gain from a profound national tragedy. He should be ashamed of himself, and he needs to immediately apologize to the families of the victims of September 11th for politicizing their loss.” The Congressional Hispanic Caucus stands with all Americans in support of the 9/11 families and with all those engaged in the fight against terrorism. To use these events for political and financial gain is a reprehensible act that cannot be ignored. The Caucus calls for an unequivocal retraction, and suggests that Rove drop his divisive rhetoric and join Members of Congress in working to protect the fundamental principles of our country while we continue to prosecute the war on terrorism.
06.20.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 20, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano and NOAA Announce Clean-Up Projects for Vieques Washington, DC, June 20, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) announced a new series of programs, to be administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), in cooperation with the Departments of Interior and Defense, to clean up and restore the Puerto Rican island of Vieques. Despite being populated, the island had been a Navy bombing zone for nearly four decades, and it has still not been cleaned up. Serrano had secured funding for NOAA in last year’s Appropriations Omnibus bill for Vieques’ clean-up. “I’m so proud to be able to announce these important measures that we’re taking to finally get the ball rolling on cleaning up Vieques,” said Serrano. “NOAA will be studying contamination, restoring coastal and marine habitats, studying underwater ordnance and debris, conducting education and outreach programs, and developing a GIS mapping project to assist with cleanup and restoration. These projects represent a significant step forward in the effort to clean up Vieques.” Announced NOAA Vieques cleanup and restoration activities are: Land and Fiddler Crab Sampling Study, to sample for the presence of contamination in land and fiddler crabs; Marine Habitat Assessment, Restoration, and Protection, to assist with the assessment, restoration, and protection of Vieques’ coastal and marine habitats; Underwater Survey, to demonstrate the effectiveness of sonar and video mosaic in identifying ordnance and debris in the waters around Vieques; Education and Outreach, to build upon the existing community education and outreach activities focused on the Vieques coastal and marine resources; and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Mapping Project, to assist in the cleanup and restoration, and provide an education tool for the Vieques community. Congressman Serrano has been a tireless advocate for Vieques. He played a key role in ending the bombings there (and was arrested outside the White House protesting the Navy’s continued use of the island) and is now a leader in the push for the island’s environmental restoration. A one-pager describing NOAA activities in Vieques is available here: http://www.house.gov/serrano/pdf/Vieques_for_Serrano_June_10_20051.pdf. To view the Congressional Research Service’s report on environmental cleanup efforts in Culebra and Vieques requested by Congressman Serrano, please visit: http://www.house.gov/serrano/pdf/vieques-culebra.pdf
06.17.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 17, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Letter to Councilman Miller on Waste Management Proposal Washington, DC, June 17, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent the following letter to New York City Council Speaker Gifford Miller: June 17, 2005 The Honorable Gifford Miller Speaker of the City Council 250 Broadway, 30th Floor New York, New York 10007 Dear Councilman Miller: I am writing to you to express my profound concern over your revised proposal for managing municipal waste—a proposal that threatens to undo many years of painstaking work and negotiation by community organizations and environmental groups in my district and throughout the boroughs of our city. I believe that any plan that does not directly address the reactivation of dormant Manhattan transfer stations to handle locally-generated residential waste does this city a great disservice. As you may know, for far too long certain communities have been unfairly burdened with garbage from other boroughs or with the public health impacts of high volumes of waste-related diesel truck traffic. Under the present system, the trucks are invariably bound for outer borough and out-of-state processing and disposal sites and disproportionately pass through neighborhoods of color, particularly East Harlem, the South Bronx, and Williamsburg. I believe that the Pier 76 scenario you have presented is illusory and another attempt at delaying the implementation of a just, desperately needed, and environmentally sound solution to our waste crisis. Further, I understand that your plan will actually result in the reduction of Manhattan’s projected commercial waste capacity by 780 tons per day. My constituents and I are naturally concerned about how this capacity shortfall would be handled. On the other hand, the Department of Sanitation's Solid Waste Management Plan (SWMP) is a sensible and equitable plan that would greatly reduce past inequities by ensuring that garbage is handled locally and trucked minimally. While not perfect, this plan would have a positive impact on the health of low-income communities currently confronted with high volumes of truck traffic and clusters of waste transfer stations. Clearly, utilizing pre-existing Marine Transfer Stations to barge residential waste out of Manhattan offers the greatest opportunity to reduce diesel vehicle miles traveled through asthma-plagued communities. While I strongly endorse the re-use and re-opening of the proposed marine transfer stations, I firmly oppose any attempt to use these marine transfer stations to move trash from one borough to another. The Bronx does not want, nor does it need, more trash from other boroughs, and neighborhoods like Upper Manhattan do not need any more outbound waste-hauling trucks rumbling through their streets. As such, we fully support the SWMP's goal of equity and borough self-sufficiency in the handling of solid waste and the full utilization of marine transfer stations, valuable public assets that hold a solution to our waste crisis. However, without every element of the plan in place, including a re-opened Marine Transfer Station at E. 91st Street to handle residential waste, the concept of borough self-sufficiency would fail and Manhattan would continue to produce far more waste than it could possibly handle. I strongly encourage you as Speaker of the City Council to speak for all of the citizens of New York and support the proposed Solid Waste Management Plan, a plan that furthers the goals of environmental justice, borough self-sufficiency, and waste reduction. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
06.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 16, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Hosts Briefing on Bronx Creative Industries WHAT: Congressman Serrano hosts a "Briefing on Creative Industries in the 16th Congressional District" WHEN: Friday, June 17th at 3 PM WHERE: 788 Southern Boulevard (near the corner with Longwood Avenue), The Bronx, NY The 16th Congressional District is home to 306 Arts-related Businesses & Organizations that employ 2,633 people. Please join us Friday at the Congressman’s Bronx office for this informative briefing, to be hosted in cooperation with Americans for the Arts & The Bronx Council on the Arts. Attendees will learn about arts-related enterprises in the area and how the creative industries are impacting the local economy and helping to fuel the growth of the borough’s emerging creative sector. Guests are requested to RSVP to Kitty Davila in Congressman Serrano's office at (718) 620-0084. # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990, and is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee. He is a champion of the arts, and is a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus.
06.15.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 15, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Letter to New York Yankees Washington, DC, June 15, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent the following letter to New York Yankees President Randy Levine celebrating the announcement of a new stadium plan that will keep the Yankees in the Bronx: Washington, DC June 15, 2005 Randy Levine, President New York Yankees Yankee Stadium Bronx, NY 10451 Dear Mr. Levine: First of all I would like to send you my heartiest personal congratulations and thanks for reaching this landmark agreement for a new stadium that will keep the Yankees in the Bronx. Congratulations on working so closely with the City, Borough President Adolfo Carrion, and other officials to keep the history and heritage of the Yankees exactly where it belongs—in our dynamic borough. As you know, we are in the midst of a busy session in Congress and today there are nearly 25 votes on appropriations bills on the floor of the House of Representatives. As the only New York City Congressman on the House Appropriations Committee, I need to be here in Washington. But I am with you there in spirit, celebrating with you, with the Yankees, and with the rest of the Bronx. I am not just the Congressman who represents the area around Yankee Stadium, I am also a huge Yankee fan and resident and member of the Yankee Stadium community: I live on the Grand Concourse just blocks away from the Stadium. I shop in the area, attend Yankee games, visit the local parks, walk the streets in the area. The Golden Gate Bridge is a San Francisco icon, the US Capitol immovable from Washington DC. The greatest sports franchise on earth, the Bronx Bombers, belongs squarely in the Bronx. The Yankees are a vital Bronx institution and their presence in the Bronx helps both the surrounding area and the entire borough. I appreciate your listening to my concerns and communicating with me on a regular basis throughout this process as a final package was being finalized. Congratulations on this agreement, and I stand ready to continue working with you as the Bronx-Yankee relationship continues to flourish and grow. All the best, José E. Serrano Member of Congress # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990, and is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee.
06.14.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 14, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Blasts GOP “Count Immigrants Out” Constitutional Amendment Proposal Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) ripped into the latest of a string of recent Republican immigrant-bashing proposals, this one a proposed amendment to the Constitution that would change the wording of the 14th Amendment to bar the counting of all non-citizens—including legal residents—in the district apportionment process. “The Republicans just won’t stop the double-speak,” said Serrano. “They go around talking about their love for Latinos and for immigrants, and then they turn around and push a measure like this. This measure will disenfranchise Latino communities.” The amendment, proposed by Candice Miller (R-MI), seeks to change the word “persons” to “citizens” in the 14th Amendment. Miller presents the change as a stab against illegal immigration, but her change would actually affect all non-citizen immigrants, including legal immigrants. “The Framers of the 14th Amendment were very explicit when they determined that the Congressional apportionment system should count everyone,” said Serrano. “This Republican proposal will affect immigrants of all stripes by diluting the representation of high immigrant communities. I will oppose this amendment and call on those concerned with fairness in our democracy to help fight its passage.” The Miller amendment would seriously reduce the number of majority-Latino congressional districts in the country and would cut seats from ethnically and ideologically diverse states such as New York and California, shifting them instead to a handful of overwhelmingly white (and, not coincidentally, overwhelmingly Republican) states. “This amendment is bad for immigrants, bad for minorities, and bad for our democracy,” said Serrano. “It’s just the latest anti-Latino trash to come out of the Republican Party. Except that this time they’re actually trying to insert their anti-immigrant agenda into the Constitution! It’s high time for all this to stop.” # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990, and is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee.
06.10.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 10, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serranos to March in Puerto Rican Day Parade, Celebrate its Long Heritage This Sunday, Congressman José E. Serrano and his son State Senator José M. Serrano, two generations of prominent elected officials of Puerto Rican descent, will march together in the National Puerto Rican Day Parade up Fifth Avenue, celebrating the living legacy of this important cultural institution. “The Puerto Rican parade has become an icon, a symbol of the strength and vibrancy of the Puerto Rican community,” said Congressman Serrano. “But it is more than that. It is an opportunity for New Yorkers of all backgrounds to come and celebrate the diversity that is the lifeblood of our city.” “The Parade is a chance for Puerto Ricans of all generations to come together and celebrate all that our community has accomplished,” said Senator Serrano. “We pay homage to those who came before us, and steel ourselves for the challenges of the future. But more than anything, we celebrate today. We are proud to be boricuas, and proud to be New Yorkers.” The Parade on Sunday is one day after Congressman Serrano honors Parade Grand Marshal for Puerto Rico Luis Rodriguez Mayoral, the legendary Puerto Rican baseball journalist, scout, and businessman. That ceremony, to be held Saturday at noon at the Congressman’s offices in the South Bronx, will be attended by myriad prominent figures of world of baseball. “This event does two things: it brings some of the Parade celebrations to the Bronx, where so many Puerto Ricans actually live, and also it helps to underscore how proud we are to have Luis Mayoral participating in the Parade with us this year,” said Congressman Serrano. “He is a tremendous man who has done so for Puerto Rico and for baseball. For over thirty years, Mayoral has been a "mover and shaker" who has helped put Puerto Rico on the map in the world of baseball who also has helped to bring the excitement of baseball to Puerto Rico and the rest of Latin America. He was a Major League Baseball scout, General Manager for two Puerto Rican baseball clubs, a baseball broadcaster for CBS, and also served as a senior executive for two Major League teams, pushing to expand Spanish-language baseball broadcasting and outreach to U.S. Latinos and Latin America. He is a noted author of five books, including a well-received biography of his friend Roberto Clemente. He served as chief baseball correspondent for El Vocero of Puerto Rico for nearly twenty years and has received numerous distinguished honors and awards, including Puerto Rico Sports Commentator of the Year. This year, he has been selected to serve as Parade Grand Marshal for Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican Day Parade has been a community tradition since 1958, and has been growing ever since. Congressman Serrano served as Parade Grand Marshal in 2002.
06.02.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 2, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Congratulates Berríos Martínez on Receiving Prestigious Colosio Order of Merit Medal from COPPPAL Bronx, NY June 2, 2005- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) congratulated famed Puerto Rican independence leader Rubén Berríos Martínez for being honored by the Permanent Conference of Political Parties of Latin America (COPPPAL) with the "Luis Donaldo Colosio Medal of the Order of Latin American Merit," named in memory of the progressive former Mexican leader assassinated while running for president in 1994. “Rubén Berríos is a real boricua hero, a man who has fought all his life for the decolonization of the island,” said Serrano. “For too long, he was one of the lone voices in the wilderness, calling attention to the atrocious and unacceptable colonial relationship between the United States and Puerto Rico. COPPPAL has honored a fighter for Latin American self-determination and decolonization, and I congratulate him today.” Berríos Martínez, president of the Puerto Rican Independence Party (PIP), was presented with the medal in the 25th anniversary conference of COPPPAL, hosted in Buenos Aires by Argentinean President Nestor Kirchner. Berríos Martínez served 12 years as a Puerto Rican senator, and was a leader in the fight to draw attention to the destructive naval bombing of the Puerto Rican island of Vieques—he camped out within the bombing range for nearly a year before being arrested. A Yale Law School graduate, he is the author of numerous books and articles about Puerto Rican independence and politics and is widely respected on all sides of the Puerto Rican political spectrum for his integrity and independence. # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York, in Congress since 1990. He is the most senior Member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent.
05.31.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 31, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Forgotten Bronx Korean War Heroes Honored at Memorial Day Weekend Ceremony This weekend, a series of events sponsored by Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) and The Friends of Charlton Gardens, a South Bronx veterans group, brought new attention to a little known public space and to the heroic but largely forgotten stories of two Bronxites who died in the service of their country. Both Sergeant Cornelius H. Charlton and Pfc. William Thompson were living in the South Bronx when they volunteered for service in Korea. The two were the only African-Americans awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor during the Korean War. Both died from wounds sustained while exhibiting extraordinary courage during battles at Chipo-ri and Hanan, respectively. Charlton’s and Thompson’s stories faded into history before being rediscovered by a group of dedicated local veterans. The veterans formed The Friends of Charlton Garden, committed to the celebration of their legacy and the building of a memorial at Charlton Garden in the Morrisania section of the Bronx. The Garden had been named after Sergeant Charlton in the immediate aftermath of the war, but had long-since fallen into disrepair. Memorial Day Weekend events at the Garden sponsored by Congressman Serrano and The Friends highlighted their story and celebrated the sacrifices of Korean War veterans from the borough while reenergizing efforts to build a memorial there. “Today we have gathered here to pay tribute to these two individuals,” Serrano told the crowd of approximately 60 veterans and community members who gathered at the Garden on Saturday, “but we are also here to honor the many other brave sons of the Bronx who wore our country’s uniform proudly and with distinction during the Korean War. Their stories are uniquely American and we must never forget their sacrifice for our freedom, especially at a time when their freedoms were not being fully respected here at home. The Bronx honors them, and our nation honors them.” Saturday’s ceremony included a singing of the National Anthem by New York City Police Officer Joaquin Sepulveda, a Color Guard ceremony led by the Fort Hamilton Joint Services Color Guard, an invocation by VFW Chaplain Minister William Shoates, a playing of Taps by a member of Disabled American Veterans, Ronald Cruz, a 21-gun salute from soldiers of the US Army Garrison at Fort Hamilton, a reading by cadets of the Army JROTC at Morris High School of the names of the 112 Bronxites killed during the Korean War, and remarks from Korean War veterans Leroy Archible, Robert Gumbs, and Antony Melé. The day before, volunteers from the community cleaned and re-painted Charlton Garden during a joint beautification effort led by City Year and the City Parks Department. Archible, the President of the Friends of Charlton Garden, exhorted the crowd to “Never forget. These guys are part of our history and they deserve to be remembered for their sacrifice. We’re going to make this memorial a reality.” Photos and videotape of the ceremony are available upon request. Some photos are also made available in the “Photo Gallery” section of our website. For more information abut Charlton Garden, see: http://www.nycgovparks.org/sub_your_park/historical_signs/hs_historical_sign.php?id=8757. For more information about Charlton and Thompson, see: http://www.medalofhonor.com/AfricanAmericanKoreanWar.htm. # # # Congressman Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Vietnam War-era veteran and is a member of the Public Service Caucus which promotes service programs such as Americorps and its successful City Year program.
05.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 26, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Crowley and Serrano Announce $300,000 in Federal Funding for Orchard Beach Washington, DC- Today, Congressmen Joseph Crowley (NY-07) and José E. Serrano (NY-16) announced that $300,000 in federal funding for beach restoration at Orchard Beach in the Bronx has been approved by the U.S. House of Representatives. The funding comes from the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill for FY2006, which was passed by the House this week. “I am grateful for the work of my friend and colleague José Serrano and most importantly I am pleased that our constituents in the Bronx will be able to continue to enjoy the clean and safe environment Orchard Beach has to offer,” said Congressman Crowley. “This is a huge quality of life victory for the hardworking people in the Bronx. A cleaner and more beautiful Bronx will make a lasting impact on all of my constituents’ lives.” “ Orchard Beach is the only place in the Bronx where people can go to enjoy the beach,” said Serrano, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “It’s a place where millions of New Yorkers go to escape the heat of the summer, and I’m proud to have teamed up with my good friend Joe Crowley to get some vital funding for its restoration.” Providing the Bill becomes law, Orchard Beach will receive $300,000 for a shoreline project to address storm damage prevention, recreation, and environmental restoration. This would represent a $175,000 increase from last year’s federal funding. Orchard Beach is a favorite recreational site for Bronx residents and more than two million people, many low-income and minority, visit Orchard Beach every year. # # # José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee.
05.26.2005	Washington, DC, May 26, 2005—This week, Mayor Mike Bloomberg launched a expensive Spanish-language radio advertising campaign promoting his record as mayor. But Congressman José E. Serrano (D-Bronx) expressed his hope for “a little more substance to match the symbolism coming from the Mayor” and questioned the depth of his commitment to immigrants and multilingualism. “Mike Bloomberg is trolling for Hispanic votes with slick new ads in Spanish,” said Serrano. “It’s classic Bloomberg. He talks a good talk about inclusion and multilingualism, and then turns around and pulls the plug on bilingual education and fails to take his party to task for its immigrant-bashing and aggressive English-Only agenda. You can’t have it both ways, Mike.” On September 17, 2004, the Daily News reported that Mayor Bloomberg was “quietly working to erase bilingual education” in New York City. This news came just days after Bloomberg hosted the controversial Republican National Convention in New York, when the Mayor and his Republican friends tried to put a moderate face on their party. But several of Bloomberg’s Republican buddies in Congress have been pushing “English-Only” legislation that would, among other things, roll back protections of the rights of people of limited English language proficiency and prohibit the use of government funds for the use of languages other than English. This could mean that candidates receiving matching campaign funds would be barred from putting out political advertisements in other languages like the Mayor’s recent radio spots in Spanish. “The fact is that since Bloomberg became a Republican, Republicans in Congress have launched twelve different proposals to force English-Only policies onto the nation,” said Serrano. “Mayor Bloomberg keeps telling us how his being a Republican helps New York because it gives him credibility in Washington. But he never takes his party to task on the issues that matter to ordinary New Yorkers. Where was he when his party was limiting immigrants’ rights through such measures as the REAL ID Act? Why has he been putting out ads in Spanish but hasn’t taken a firm stance against English-Only? Where was he when his Republican colleagues were pushing to cut access to services for people of limited English proficiency? Why wasn’t he fighting harder when his President and his party’s leadership tried to slash federal homeland security funding for New York? Mike Bloomberg throws some Spanish into his campaign pitch on the streets of New York City but he’s speechless when it comes to standing up for Latinos within his party and on the national level.”
05.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 25, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano To Honor Bronx Medal of Honor Heroes at Memorial Weekend Ceremony This weekend, Congressman Serrano will host events in honor of African-American Medal of Honor recipients Sergeant Cornelius Charlton and Private First Class William Thompson. The events will highlight and celebrate the contributions of these Bronx soldiers, both of whom were posthumously awarded Congressional Medals of Honor for combat bravery during the Korean War. Both Charlton and Thompson were living in the South Bronx when they volunteered for service in Korea. The events will take place at a New York City Parks site: Charlton Garden , a small park in the Bronx neighborhood of Morissania named after Sergeant Charlton. For many veterans from the South Bronx, the May 28th ceremony is an opportunity to expose the local community to the heroic but largely unknown stories of Sgt. Charlton and Pfc. Thompson. The Friends of Charlton Garden, a local community group comprised of veterans and residents of Morrisania, hope that this weekend’s events will generate excitement for the idea of turning the Garden into a memorial site, which promises to be the only memorial in New York City dedicated to veterans of color. On Friday, there will be a community clean-up of the Garden sponsored by City Year and the City Parks Department and on Saturday there will be a special commemorative event at the site. Charlton Garden is located at the intersection of East 164th Street, Teasdale Place, Boston Road, and Cauldwell Avenue in Morrisania, the Bronx. Friday’s (May 27) Clean up-event will begin at 10 AM at the Garden and will include volunteers from City Year, Fordham University ’s ROTC program and Community Affairs Office, active Navy seamen in town for Fleet Week, Korean and Vietnam War veterans, and other community members. Saturday’s (May 28) ceremony will be hosted by Congressman Serrano and will begin at 2 PM, also at the Garden. It will include a military color guard, 21-gun salute, a reading of the names of the soldiers from the Bronx who died during the Korean War, a playing of “Taps,” and remarks from Congressman Serrano and other local leaders, in addition to leaders of The Friends of Charlton Garden, a local organization formed with the specific mission of preserving the rich history of South Bronx military veterans and their service. The organization has been instrumental in drawing attention to Charlton Garden and its historical significance. In addition to honoring those who fought and served in the armed forces, the May 28th ceremony will also mark the revival of an important veterans’ memorial in the Bronx after many years of neglect. For more information about Charlton Garden from the Parks Department’s website, see: http://www.nycgovparks.org/sub_your_park/historical_signs/hs_historical_sign.php?id=8757 For more information about Charlton and Thompson, see: http://www.goarmy.com/bhm/moh_korean.jsp # # # Congressman Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is a Vietnam War-era veteran and is a member of the Public Service Caucus which promotes service programs such as Americorps and its successful City Year program.
05.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 25, 2004 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4363 In the Wake of Catastrophic Flooding, Serrano and Crowley Call Upon President to Help Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, and Haiti Washington, DC, May 25, 2004—Deeply concerned by the tremendous suffering caused by recent flooding in Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, and Haiti, Congressmen José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Joseph Crowley (D-NY) sent a letter to President Bush asking him for “an immediate response to help alleviate the suffering in all of these locations.” According to the latest reports, more than 250 people have already been killed in the Caribbean, as floods have destroyed entire villages after Monday’s heavy rains. The floods appear to be the islands’ deadliest in recent history. “We are terribly saddened by the tragic loss of life and remain deeply concerned that many more people will die if we don’t get help to the islands quickly,” said Congressman Serrano. “Our government needs to act fast to save lives.” “The people of the , , and Puerto Rico continue to suffer from the torrential rains that have taken the lives of hundreds over the past few days,” said Congressman Crowley. “While I applaud the efforts of the U.S. Marines stationed in , more emergency personnel and aid is needed to assist our friends. Our nation must do everything in its power to help the afflicted people of the Caribbean as they face the deadliest floods since the 1994 Tropical Storm Gordon.” In the case of Puerto Rico, the letter urged the President “to ask the Federal Emergency Management Agency to act quickly to bring the support of its personnel and expertise to Puerto Rico to help resolve the many programs that have resulted from this flooding.” With respect to the and , the Congressmen asked “that emergency relief be quickly provided.” The letter went on to state that “this is a time of desperate need and we would like to urge you to make our nation’s response both quick and generous… We stand ready to assist you in any way possible.” The text of the letter follows: May 25, 2004 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are deeply saddened by the recent flooding in Puerto Rico, the , and . This flooding has created crisis situations, and we would like to request an immediate response to help alleviate the suffering in all of these locations. Flooding has been severe in Puerto Rico and has already resulted in the deaths of at least four people. We would like to urge you to ask the Federal Emergency Management Agency to act quickly to bring the support of its personnel and expertise to Puerto Rico to help resolve the many problems that have resulted from this flooding. Please let us know how we can best help you to address this devastation. With respect to the , we would like to ask that emergency relief be quickly provided. Not only have many died, but we have heard that about 450 homes were flooded and that at least 14 small towns lost power and had downed phone lines. Many victims are being housed in shelters. In , over 100 have died and there is immense suffering and loss. This is a time of desperate need and we would like to urge you to make our nation’s response both quick and generous. Again, we stand ready to assist you in any way possible. With thanks and appreciation for your quick response, we are Sincerely, José E. Serrano Joseph Crowley Member of Congress Member of Congress
05.20.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 20, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Statement on DR-CAFTA Washington, DC, May 20, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) issued the following statement: “The debate over the proposed Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) is intense and spirited. I have taken some time to carefully weigh the arguments on both sides, and have decided to vote against DR-CAFTA. All of us want to help develop the economies of Latin America, but DR-CAFTA promises to do more damage than good, both for workers and the national economies of the and the Latin American nations affected—the , , , , , and . I am a believer in free markets and open trade. But the experience of capitalism has taught us that a liberal economic system only works effectively when it is regulated by laws that maintain safety standards and protect against abuses of workers rights and our environment. DR-CAFTA, as written, fails to adequately protect against such abuses. In addition, it fails to address some of the long-term problems and deficiencies of the national economies affected. There are many things that concern me deeply about the implementation of DR-CAFTA: Real Economic Development: Free trade agreements must be part of an agenda that truly addresses issues of poverty and democracy in developing countries. Experts generally contend that free trade agreements will not promote equity in countries unless they are supported by complementary policies to ensure protected rights, while providing re-training and assistance to workers and employers in hard-hit industries. DR-CAFTA does not have enough provisions or assurances that will help farmers or laborers in the participating Latin American countries. Also, as written, DR-CAFTA fails to detail how corporations and local governments will work to successfully include the participation of traditionally marginalized and vulnerable populations. The land rights concerns of indigenous coastal groups such as the Garifuna peoples of , , , and , are significant and likely to impact the families of many of my constituents in the Bronx. And, by failing to address key economic concerns, and perhaps by exacerbating them, DR-CAFTA threatens to increase the need for Central Americans and Dominicans to seek new economic opportunities in the . Labor: I am greatly concerned that DR-CAFTA has insufficient labor provisions to protect against labor abuses. Companies may invest in the affected Latin American nations, but judging from previous free trade agreements, they often do so for all the wrong reasons: cheap labor and weaker worker protections. According to the U.S. Department of State’s Country Reports on Human Rights Practices, there are many violations in the enforcement of internationally recognized labor standards in most CAFTA countries, including the . has not even signed the International Labor Organization Conventions which recognize the right to union organizing. While many countries have certain basic protections on the books, there is often inconsistent or insignificant enforcement of the rules, such as with the minimum wage and child labor, throughout the region. Rather than working to raise labor standards in these countries the treaty would allow corporations to sue the government for “expected future losses” associated with any existing or proposed labor, environmental or other protective laws. This is contained in Chapter 10, a replica of the highly controversial Chapter 11 of NAFTA. Environment: DR-CAFTA sets no minimum environmental standards whatsoever for Central American nations. DR-CAFTA nations with irresponsible environmental protection laws today can maintain irresponsible environmental protection laws under DR-CAFTA. In fact, DR-CAFTA nations can repeal their environmental protection laws entirely, without running afoul of the agreement. While DR-CAFTA does require nations to enforce whatever environmental laws they happen to have at the moment, there are insufficient penalties for not doing so. The maximum penalty is capped at $15 million. This is in clear juxtaposition with unlimited fines and sanctions for noncompliance with commercial, intellectual property, and investor protection parts of the agreement; the environmental enforcement in the bill is extremely weak in comparison. Democratic Questions: The negotiation and subsequent ratification of CAFTA in several Central American countries has been quite suspect. Negotiations for DR-CAFTA and its various side agreements were carried out in quasi-secret conditions. Sectors that represent micro-, small-, and medium-sized businesses have been excluded from trade negotiations, as have workers, consumers, some professionals, and other representatives of civil society. There has been significant, organized opposition to DR-CAFTA in every member country by unions, laborers, students, health care providers and farmers. Three Mesoamerican Forums have rejected DR-CAFTA by consensus and demanded alternative forms of development. Huge demonstrations against the agreement have been staged in , , , and . Government repression of this opposition is troublesome, particularly as demonstrated in , where the promise of a public plebiscite on DR-CAFTA was revoked, and anti-DR-CAFTA protestors were attacked by riot police, resulting in two deaths and many wounded. * * * These are just a few of the reasons why I’ve decided to oppose DR-CAFTA. I think it represents a raw deal for millions of Americans, Dominicans, and Central Americans. We need an agreement that is in the best interests of our people, and DR-CAFTA as it stands today simply doesn’t cut it.
05.19.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 19, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Criticizes DHS Statement Ruling Out Extradition for Luis Posada Washington, DC, May 19, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) expressed his support for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) decision to “finally” arrest terrorist suspect Luis Posada Carriles, but raised concerns about an ICE statement that ruled out his extradition to Venezuela, in seeming violation of the ’s international treaty obligations. Posada, a virulent anti-Castro militant, has been linked to the 1976 bombing of a civilian jetliner that killed 73 people, many of them children, and a 1997 series of deadly bombings at tourist hotels in Havana. Arrested and detained in for the jetliner bombing, he escaped from prison in 1985 after supporters paid a $28,000 bribe to his prison guard. He went into hiding, and much later admitted responsibility for the Havana bombings in an interview with the New York Times several years ago. Several weeks ago, he appeared in south Florida where he lived under the protection of supporters there. He was finally apprehended Tuesday after bragging publicly about eluding Homeland Security (DHS) officials and wondering aloud in a press conference why he hadn’t yet been apprehended. “While I’m glad that DHS finally arrested Posada, it’s amazing that he almost had to goad them into doing it,” said Serrano. “It would have been wildly hypocritical of us to let this man with a terrorism indictment on his head live in our midst while at the same time we’re asking other countries to help us with our effort against anti-American terrorists.” In a bizarre day of twists and turns, which saw Posada give a secret press conference only to be arrested shortly thereafter, perhaps the oddest moment came with the release of a statement on the Posada arrest from ICE. In the statement, ICE said that it would not deport Posada to or to , despite the still open proceedings against him related to the airline bombing. ICE “does not generally remove people to , nor does ICE generally remove people to countries believed to be acting on ’s behalf,” said the statement. But Venezuelan Vice President José Vicente Rangel has made it clear that will not extradite Posada to , only that it wants to continue with the judicial proceedings on the airline bombing left pending by his escape twenty years ago. “That ICE statement is one of the most bizarre things I’ve seen in a long while,” said Serrano. “Here’s a guy who has admitted to committing terrorist attacks, who escaped justice by bribing his guards and high-tailing it out of prison, and we’re not willing to extradite him to face justice? 73 people died in that airliner, many of them children. How can we with any credibility ask other nations to help us out with our global struggle against terror when we won’t cooperate with other nations’ anti-terror proceedings? There is a two-way street here. Clearly, ICE should retract its ridiculous and highly unusual statement and take ’s extradition request seriously. Posada was a wanted man in long before Hugo Chavez was elected President there.” The has an extradition treaty with that would require the extradition of someone like Posada in a case such as this. Serrano recently sent a letter to President Bush, signed by several other members of Congress, requesting that the adhere to ’s extradition request. The letter is available upon request.
05.05.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 5, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Congressman Serrano to Celebrate Cinco De Mayo, Honor Tepeyac Organization WHAT: Cinco de Mayo celebration, presentation of honors to leaders of Tepeyac. WHEN: Friday, May 6, 2005, 6:30 PM WHERE: Patrick Hennessy South Bronx Community Center 414 East 145th Street Bronx, NY 10454 Congressman Serrano will take this opportunity to celebrate Cinco de Mayo and honor leaders of the Tepeyac Association, an umbrella organization of Mexican organizations and community centers spread across New York, for its work improving the lives of immigrants. Tepeyac runs educational programs, provides access to computers, immigration assistance, youth leadership development programs, and many other activities. The event will be hosted by the Patrick Hennessy Center , a center in the Tepeyac network based in the South Bronx. Among the honorees will be Teresa Mendez, Emerenciana Guadalupe, Juana Guadalupe, Lucio Escamilla, Juan Velez, and Lucia Sanchez. Press are welcome to attend, and photos of the event will be made available afterwards.
05.04.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 4, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Celebrates Mexican-American Contributions, Criticizes REAL ID Act Washington, DC, May 4, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) issued the following statement in honor of Cinco de Mayo: “Cinco de Mayo is a day of celebration, not only for the people of , but also for the nearly 20 million Americans of Mexican ancestry. Today, we celebrate not only the history of a great Mexican victory against foreign invaders, but also the contributions and ever-growing vibrancy of our nation’s Mexican-American community. “Nearly 200,000 people of Mexican descent now live in New York City alone. While xenophobes and naysayers decry Mexican immigration and fight to restrict immigrants’ rights, Mexican and other immigrants are revitalizing our inner city neighborhoods, breathing new life into distressed housing stock, bringing family picnics back into our city parks, energizing the service and small business sectors, and repopulating neighborhoods that had previously been left for dead. “In the South Bronx, for example, Mexican immigrants are playing a critical role in the transformation of Mott Haven. Less than ten years ago, a visitor walking down 138th Street would have passed abandoned rowhouses and vacant storefronts. Today, there is not one empty house or boarded-up storefront on the street, a tribute to the great energy and entrepreneurship that Mexican immigrants have brought to my district. 138th Street and St. Mary’s Park are now vibrant urban centers for New York Mexican immigrants, who are playing a key role in revitalizing the South Bronx, just as they have revitalized so many other urban neighborhoods in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and so many other cities. Organizations such as Tepeyac and the Patrick Hennesy Center are leading the way in the Mexican immigrant community by launching youth training and leadership programs to develop the next generation of Mexican-American leaders in our community. “So, on this day, we salute the Mexican-American community, and thank them for their continuing contribution to American life and culture and for playing such an important role in revitalizing our inner cities. And on this day, we renew our commitment to taking a stand against the xenophobia, cynicism, and narrow-mindedness of the anti-immigrant lobby. “The increasingly aggressive and mean-spirited anti-immigrant movement is pushing irresponsible anti-immigrant measures through the federal legislative process. The REAL ID Act, for example, seeks to step on states’ and immigrants’ rights by forcing states to change their laws on ID cards. The Act would prevent states from allowing undocumented immigrants to get drivers’ licenses even if those states’ elected leaders want to do so. In an effort to appease the anti-immigrant crowd, the provisions of this Act are being included by Republicans into the supplemental appropriations legislation that is meant to fund the war in and Asian tsunami relief. “Waving the banner of post-September 11th homeland security, proponents of the REAL ID Act argue that the 9/11 terrorists all boarded their flights with valid state-issued IDs. But they fail to mention that the terrorists were all in the United States LEGALLY. Thus, had the REAL ID Act been in place before the attacks, it would have done nothing to stop the terrorists from getting legal ID cards. Instead, the Act only promises to increase the number of hit-and-run accidents and uninsured drivers on our roads while reducing the database capacity of local police, who otherwise have no information whatsoever about our undocumented population. “This type of legislation does not make our country safer. It is simply part of a mean-spirited campaign to drive undocumented immigrants further “underground,” away from all government programs and protections. Anti-immigration zealots seem to think that undocumented immigrants come to this nation to take advantage of our social programs, and thus work to keep immigrants away from these programs. However, most undocumented immigrants come to this nation seeking a better life, and are willing to risk their lives to help their families. They pay taxes, tend work in low-paying and dangerous jobs that many native-born Americans have refused, and they pay into programs such as Social Security, despite the fact that they can not collect on the benefits of those programs because of their immigration status. Their reasons for enduring the hardships of leaving home and coming to the United States are the same as those reasons that inspired all of our forbearers, whether they arrived from Puerto Rico, China, Germany, or England—the search for the fabled American Dream for themselves, their children, and their grandchildren. “And so, let this year’s Cinco de Mayo be an occasion both for celebration and vigilance. I will continue working to fight for the rights of immigrants and for common sense immigration policies. I will also continue to be forever grateful for the energy that Mexican immigrants have dedicated to the development of my beloved South Bronx. Their commitment, optimism, and enthusiasm is my inspiration, and I am proud to stand with them today.”
04.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 26, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 American Bar Association To Honor Representative Serrano WASHINGTON, D.C., April 26, 2005 – Yesterday, American Bar Association President Robert J. Grey Jr. announced that Reps. José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) will be honored for their extraordinary contributions to the cause of justice at an ABA Day in Washington reception in Washington, D.C. on April 27, 2005. “The idea of ‘justice for all’ is a cornerstone of our democracy: Representatives Wolf and Serrano have a strong record of supporting programs that make those not just words, but reality,” said Grey. Serrano’s passionate advocacy for the Legal Services Corporation drew special notice from the awards committee. Wolf won honors for his work on such important issues as funding the federal judiciary, supporting the Legal Services Corporation, and eliminating the diversion of user fees from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The awards are part of “ABA Day in Washington,” during which hundreds of lawyers from across the country gather for education and advocacy. The ABA is a non-partisan organization and does not endorse candidates or contribute to political action committees. With more than 400,000 members, the American Bar Association is the largest voluntary professional membership organization in the world. As the national voice of the legal profession, the ABA works to improve the administration of justice, promotes programs that assist lawyers and judges in their work, accredits law schools, provides continuing legal education, and works to build public understanding around the world of the importance of the rule of law in a democratic society. “I am so thrilled to be honored by the ABA in this way,” said Serrano. “I am firmly committed to the fight for equal access to justice in this country, and that’s why Legal Services Corporation is so important to me. Lack of resources shouldn’t bar citizens from obtaining proper legal representation.” ###
04.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 25, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Requests Action on Bronx Soldiers’ Delayed Supplies Washington, DC, April 25, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld requesting action on the delivery of supplies for Bronx-based Army National Guard soldiers currently serving in . According to The Norwood News, soldiers from the Kingsbridge Armory-based Army National Guard 145th Maintenance Company were told to store personal items in footlockers which, they were told, would be sent along shortly. The unit departed January 7, and the footlockers, filled with important personal items, have still not arrived. According to soldiers’ family members, they remain in storage at Ft. Benning in . Soldiers in the unit have complained that the delays have affected morale and safety, especially as some of the footlockers contain safety goggles, coveralls, steel-toed boots, hearing protection, and extra pairs of eyeglasses. “It’s bad enough that we’re sending our young men and women to fight this ill-conceived war in ,” said Serrano. “But when we do send them, we need to do all we possibly can to make sure their needs are taken care of. These soldiers are serving our country under very difficult conditions, and I will work with the Defense Department to get their supplies sent out to them as quickly as possible.” The text of Serrano’s letter is below: April 25, 2005 The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld Secretary of Defense Pentagon, Room 3E880 Washington, D.C. 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: It has recently come to my attention through press reports last week that members of the Army National Guard’s 145th Maintenance Company, based out of the Kingsbridge Armory in my Congressional District, are currently experiencing equipment deficiencies as they await the arrival of footlockers containing mission critical equipment. According to the report, the delivery of these footlockers has been delayed. As the 145th is currently contributing to the often hazardous mission of providing security for the reconstruction effort, I believe that ensuring the speedy delivery of these footlockers would be a relatively small undertaking that would greatly bolster the safety and morale of these troops, who are serving in such austere conditions. Therefore I, along with the these soldiers’ families in the Bronx, would be grateful for any action on your part to expedite the delivery of these items. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress
04.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 21, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Bronxite Honored By EPA New York, NY, April 21, 2005—Today, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) posthumously honored Yolanda Garcia, the Bronx community activist who devoted her life to addressing issues of environmental and social justice in the South Bronx. Garcia, who passed away in February, was nominated for the EPA’s prestigious Environmental Quality Award by Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY). “Yolanda Garcia was such an important leader in our community, and I am glad that she is being recognized for her efforts,” said Serrano. “She forced policy-makers and planners to think about the effects of their decisions, and refused to let the environment be considered simply an issue for the affluent and well-educated. Environmental problems affect everyone, and Yolanda Garcia was a tireless advocate for a better environment in one of the poorest parts of . We already miss her terribly.” Garcia’s award was presented today in celebration of the 35th anniversary of Earth Day at the EPA’s headquarters in Manhattan. The EPA selects Environmental Quality Award winners from non-profit, environmental and community groups, individual citizens, educators, business organizations, and members of the news media. Garcia, the late director of We Stay/Nos Quedamos Committee, an organization that emerged over a decade ago from her efforts to organize residents of the South Bronx to demand a role in the Melrose Commons Urban Renewal Program, an area revitalization effort. Ms. Garcia helped to elevate EPA’s awareness of the community’s perspective on some of the negative impacts of municipal waste transfer stations. In 2000, she established a multi-year partnership with New York University and local non-profits to conduct research and community education about the causes of the South Bronx’s asthma crisis. These partnership and studies were funded through federal monies secured by Congressman Serrano. Yolanda Garcia passed away February 17, 2005. ###
04.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 21, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 NAACP Declares Serrano Bill “Legislative Priority for 109th Congress” Washington, DC, April 21, 2005—This week, the nation’s leading civil rights organization expressed its strong support for the Cuba Reconciliation Act, Congressman José E. Serrano’s (D-NY) proposal to lift the embargo against . In a letter to the Congressman, the Director of the NAACP’s (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People) Washington Bureau, Hilary Shelton, expressed the organization’s “strong support” for Serrano’s bill and thanked him for his “crucial leadership in this area.” The letter went on to state that “the NAACP has made enactment of this bill a legislative priority for the 109th Congress; we are committed to enlisting all of the resources available to the NAACP… to see that this legislation becomes law.” “It is heartening to have the enthusiastic support of such a respected leader in the fight for Americans’ civil rights in this fight to bring some sense to our policy regarding ,” said Congressman Serrano. “A growing coalition of Americans from both sides of the partisan divide are coming together and daring to say what we have long known to be true: that the embargo against Cuba is useless, outdated, hurtful both to American businesses and farmers and to the Cuban people, and it needs to be repealed.” Serrano’s bill “The Cuba Reconciliation Act” (HR 208) proposes to lift the trade embargo against , end the ban on Americans traveling to and from , and allows for mail communications between the and . The April 18th NAACP letter states that “after more than 40 years, the current U.S. restrictions on trade and travel between the U.S. and Cuba have proven most effective in creating tremendous and on-going hardships for the people of Cuba, hurting American businesspeople and travelers and making the U.S. a scapegoat for all of the island nation’s problems…” The letter goes on to mention that a majority of Americans, many well-respected newspapers, and a majority of both the US House and Senate now support lifting the embargo. “The American people are sick and tired of this embargo, and it’s time that our leaders in Congress heed their call,” said Serrano. “It is time to end this embargo.” A copy of the letter is attached to this release.
04.05.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 5, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 New Government Review of 9/11 Impact: Attacks’ Aftermath Cost New York Upwards of $6 Billion in Tax Revenue New York Still Suffering Unmet Needs & Unpaid Bills From the Federal Government GAO Review of Estimates of 9/11 Fiscal Impacts Requested by Reps. Serrano, Maloney, Rangel WASHINGTON, D.C.: Today, three New York Members of Congress announced a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report reviewing and evaluating recent estimates of the fiscal impact of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the economy of New York City and State. The GAO’s review re-confirms that the City and State still suffer as a result of 9/11, and that there has been no federal aid to offset the loss of this tax revenue. According to the GAO, the City has lost between $2.5 and $2.9 billion in tax revenue, while the State has lost $2.9 billion because of the September 11th terrorist attacks. Reps. Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-14), Charles Rangel (NY-15) and José E. Serrano (NY-16) requested the report. Below are their comments, followed by a summary of the report’s key findings and a link to the full document: “New York City continues to suffer from the effects of 9/11,” said Serrano. “The tax revenues lost because of that horrific event have meant hundreds of millions less dollars for New York City, which could have gone toward improving schools and helping families cope with the economic dislocations that stemmed from the attacks. Unfortunately, no federal assistance has been allocated to address this loss in tax revenue. The need is still there- what remains to be seen is whether the Administration and Congress have the compassion and willingness to help.” “This report confirms again that the economies of New York City and State continue to suffer from 9/11 and continue to shoulder the burden of those losses without adequate federal reimbursement,” said Maloney. “While we will never know the precise economic impact of 9/11 on New York, there is a consensus that the damage was extensive and that some losses continue to this day, including ongoing loss of property tax revenue to the City and State.” Maloney continued, “I hope this report will cause the Bush administration and Congress to increase the rate of mitigation aid that New York was provided after 9/11 and to repeal the wrongful taxation of 9/11 aid. While the aid that New York has received from the federal government has been greatly appreciated, more must still be done to make New York’s economy whole from the terrorist attacks.” Congressman Rangel, the Dean of New York State's Congressional Delegation, said, “This GAO report looked at all available estimates and found that they all agree - New York suffered billions of dollars in tax losses from the 9/11 attacks and has never been made whole. The truth of the matter is that it was not just New York, but all of America that was attacked on 9/11. So, while we appreciate moral support, there comes a time when the Congress and the Bush Administration should keep the promise to share the burden of the 9/11 revenue losses with New York City and State. Unfortunately, what were solemn promises in 2001 have become a litany of excuses in 2005. It’s time for the excuses to end and the promises to be kept.” A Summary of the GAO’s “September 11: Recent Estimates of Fiscal Impact of 2001 Terrorist Attack on New York” I. Continuing Impacts of 9/11 on New York Economy Are Significant “The New York City Office of Management and Budget also projected that the city will forgo $400 million annually in personal income tax revenues in 2004 and 2005, mostly derived from the loss of an estimated 17,000 securities jobs” (Page 3). Estimates from three recent studies by New York government agencies of forgone tax revenues as a result of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center are, “$2.5 billion to $2.9 billion for New York City and about $2.9 billion for New York State” (Page 2). II. No Federal Aid Provided for Lost City & State Tax Revenues “According to the New York City agencies ... none of the federal assistance provided so far has been to directly compensate for the tax revenues estimated to have been lost as a result of the attack” (Page 17). III. Economic Impacts Will Continue Until Rebuilding Complete “Property tax revenues will continue to be lower than if there had been no attack, until the destroyed and damaged buildings are reconstructed” (Page 3). IV. Job Growth Fell Considerably In Four Months Following 9/11 “Although job growth began to slow well before the attack, it declined noticeably in the 4 months after September 2001, particularly for New York City” (Page 4). “In particular, employment in manufacturing declined by about 14 percent in New York City, compared with 9 percent in New York State and 8 percent in the nation.” (Page 4-5). “In addition, the financial sector grew about 1 percent in the United States but declined by about 9 percent in the city and about 6 percent in the state” (Page 5). V. Economic Losses in Securities Industry Had Greatest Impact “The securities sector was one of the hardest hit. Although the decline in securities employment was not as great as in some other sectors, high wage rates for the sector meant a much larger decline in income. For example, securities income fell by 28 percent in the first quarter of 2002 from the same quarter the previous year” (Page 8). VI. Economic Impact of 9/11 Was Greater on New York City Than Elsewhere “Because some jobs moved to other parts of the state, and to states like New Jersey and Connecticut, the net impact on New York State and the nation was less than on the city” (Pages 3-4). VII. Discovery of Exact Economic Impacts of 9/11 Unlikely “Although the recent estimates may be useful as general indicators of the relative magnitude of the attack’s impact, inherent uncertainties about projecting economic activity in the absence of the attack and data limitations prevent them from being precise indicators” (Page 11). The GAO’s full report can be found at: http://www.house.gov/maloney/issues/Sept11/911Tax/040505GAO.pdf Additional background: Why wrongful taxation of 9/11 aid should be repealed: http://www.house.gov/maloney/press/109th/20050314FEMAtax.htm Legislative efforts to direct the federal government to provide greater mitigation aid to New York after 9/11: http://www.house.gov/maloney/press/108th/20030328WhateverItTakes.html Assessing the overall federal response to 9/11: http://www.house.gov/maloney/press/108th/20040825UnmetNeeds.htm and http://www.house.gov/maloney/press/108th/20040423FullAccounting911Aid.htm # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990, and is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee, where he serves as a senior member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee.
04.02.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 2, 2005 Contact: Matt Alpert (202) 225-4361 Congressman Serrano Recalls Pope’s Legacy of Compassion and Social Justice Bronx, NY- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano issued the following statement commemorating the life and legacy of Pope John Paul II following his passing this evening at the Vatican: “I am deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Pope John Paul II. Hundreds of millions of people have been touched by his commitment to social justice issues, his dedication to inter-faith dialogue and understanding, and his courageous and pioneering visits to countries around the world. “Pope John Paul II devoted much of his papacy to the alleviation of suffering among the poor and oppressed. His visits to more than 115 countries brought hope not just to Catholics, but to individuals of all faiths. The Pope was unafraid to question the policies of governments across the globe, and his visit to his homeland in Poland in 1979 helped to set off a chain of events that led to the downfall of communism in that nation. I found the Pope’s commitment to human rights and empathy for the most vulnerable inspiring. “In 1998 he took the unprecedented step of visiting Cuba. During his visit, he challenged policies in both Cuba and the United States. The Pope denounced the United States embargo against Cuba, saying that it was an indiscriminate measure that hurt the poor. I admired his willingness to be an honest broker, and to inspire change in countries around the world. “I was also moved by his devotion to inter-faith dialogue and reconciliation. During his tenure, Pope John Paul II helped the Vatican recognize the State of Israel, became the first Pope in centuries to visit a synagogue, and both apologized for previous Anti-Semitism and worked to prevent future anti-Semitism. He also labored to promote stronger ties with Muslims as well, and visited countries like Morocco and Syria. Perhaps the best example of his dedication to reconciliation and respect for people of different faiths came in 2000, when he visited Israel, and spent time at both the Wailing Wall, the holiest site in Judaism, and at Al Asqa Mosque, the 3rd holiest site in Islam. “As a Catholic, the passing of Pope John Paul II is both a time to grieve for his loss, but also to celebrate his life and his deeds. I was always moved by his sincerity and his commitment to creating a better world. I mourn today along with Catholics everywhere, but we should also honor his legacy of compassion, and continue his good work.” # # #
04.01.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 1, 2005 Contact: Matt Alpert (202) 225-4361 Serranos Urge Equity and Borough Self-Sufficiency in Handling of Waste Bronx, NY, April 1, 2005- Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano issued the following statement in response to threats by members of the City Council to hold up attempts to implement New York's solid waste export plan: “The Bronx has, for too long, been dumped on with garbage from other boroughs, while Upper Manhattan has been saddled with high volumes of truck traffic from waste haulers bound for out-of-state disposal sites. There is, however, a sensible and equitable plan that would greatly reduce these practices. The Department of Sanitation's Solid Waste Management Plan, while not perfect, would have a positive impact on the health of low-income communities currently burdened with high volumes of truck traffic. Clearly, utilizing pre-existing Marine Transfer Stations to barge residential waste out of the city offers the greatest opportunity to reduce vehicle miles traveled through asthma-plagued communities and minimize diesel emissions in places like East Harlem and the South Bronx, neighborhoods along truck routes to out-of-state landfills and in-city transfer stations. “The waste export plan now before the council would help reduce pollution from trucks that pass through these neighborhoods through the use of nearby marine transfer stations and would lessen the reliance on truck-based solutions to our waste crisis. For years, the South Bronx and East Harlem have suffered profound public health consequences as a result of the high volume of diesel trucks that pass through these neighborhoods on the way to private transfer stations in the Bronx and disposal sites beyond the city. The results have been severe--these neighborhoods suffer from the highest asthma rates in the country. The use of the existing marine transfer station system has the potential to greatly reduce the number of trucks on the road throughout the city, and greatly improve air quality in hard hit neighborhoods. “While we strongly endorse the re-use of the marine transfer stations, we will firmly oppose any attempt to use these marine transfer stations to move trash from one borough to another. The Bronx does not want, nor does it need, more trash from other boroughs, and Upper Manhattan does not need any more outbound waste-hauling trucks rumbling through its streets. We fully support the SWMP's goal of equity and borough self-sufficiency in the handling of solid waste and the full utilization of marine transfer stations, valuable public assets that hold a solution to our waste crisis. We strongly encourage the City Council to overcome the objection of a few and pass a plan that supports the goals of environmental justice, borough self-sufficiency, and waste reduction.” ###
03.31.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 31, 2005 Contact: Matt Alpert (202) 225-4361 Congressman Serrano Recognizes Men’s and Women’s Basketball Champions from Hostos Community College Bronx, NY—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano recognized both the men’s and women’s basketball teams from Hostos Community College for their outstanding academic and athletic accomplishments this past year. The men’s basketball team won the National Junior College Athletic Association’s Division III National Championship, while the women’s team recently repeated as champions of the CUNY Athletic Conference. Congressman Serrano presented the players and coaching staff with certificates and a statement that will be entered into the Congressional Record as recognition of their outstanding achievements. “I am excited that Hostos Community College can now boast of two college basketball champions,” said Serrano. “These athletes deserve praise for their efforts on the court, as well as in the classroom. The values that they have learned from their coaches- commitment, perseverance, and dedication- have helped them become better students and better people. I am confident that we will hear more good things from these student-athletes in the years to come.” The men’s basketball team, led by Coach Robert Holford, Jr. and in only its 3rd year of existence, beat Joliet Junior College of Illinois 73-71 in the title game held on March 19th. With the victory, they became the first Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) to win a basketball title, and marked the first time that a CUNY school had brought home a basketball championship since CCNY won the Division I title in 1950. Not to be outdone, the women’s team, under the leadership of Coach Renee Bostic and in only their 2nd year of existence, won their second CUNY Athletic Conference title. They went undefeated in conference play, and were nationally ranked the entire season. “When people mention sports in the Bronx, most of us think of our beloved Yankees,” said Serrano. “But now we can also take pride in our newly minted ‘Bronx Bombers,’ the men’s and women’s basketball teams of Hostos Community College.” # # #
03.24.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 24, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serranos Condemn Brutal Hate Crime Bronx, NY, March 24, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano issued the following statement in response to the horrific beating of Bronx resident Nelson Torres: “We were both shocked and deeply pained to hear of the brutal and senseless attack on Nelson Torres. One of the most fundamental rights we should all enjoy is the right to walk in peace in our communities. For Nelson Torres, that right has been abridged in a horrific way. Nelson Torres is an activist and a prominent member of the gay community in The Bronx, but his prominence should not obscure the sad fact that this was not an extraordinary event. It was, in fact, an all too common occurrence in our borough. We categorically condemn these attacks and urge the police to do all they can to bring those involved in this crime to justice and to prevent future assaults against our friends, neighbors, and colleagues. Such hate crimes tear at the fabric of , whether they are directed at blacks, gays, Hispanics, Jews or anyone else. They are an affront to us all; they insult us as Americans. Our hearts go out to Nelson, to his loved ones, and to the employees of the Hispanic AIDS Forum where he works. We stand firmly by our neighbors, our brothers and sisters in the gay, lesbian, and transgender community in condemning anti-gay bigotry of any kind, and we pray for Nelson’s speedy recovery. We will work towards that day when all of our citizens, regardless of their orientation or identity, can walk in peace, free from fear.” ###
03.23.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 23, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Congressman Serrano to Host Briefing on Bronx River Revitalization WHAT: Breakfast briefing led by the Bronx River Alliance on current and planned efforts to bring new recreational and educational opportunities to the Bronx River corridor, restore sensitive shoreline ecosystems, and create a greenway for pedestrians and cyclists along the length of the river WHEN: Thursday, March 24th, 8:30 AM – 10:00 AM WHERE: The Offices of Congressman José E. Serrano 788 Southern Boulevard (nr. intersection with Longwood Ave.) Bronx, NY This briefing seeks to reach out to small businesses, non-profits, and other groups not currently involved in efforts to restore the river. The goal is to inform them about the changes the river and its shoreline are undergoing and to begin to engage them in this important work. Since 1999, Congressman Serrano has secured nearly $ 25 million in federal funds for the restoration of the river. ###
03.23.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 23, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Declared One of the Nation’s “Best Representatives for Children” by Children’s Defense Fund Washington, DC, March 23, 2005—The Children’s Defense Fund (CDF) today praised Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) for his 100% voting record in Congress “defending America’s children.” “It is such an honor to be recognized in this way by an organization as vital and important as the Children’s Defense Fund,” said Serrano. “In the world’s richest, most powerful country, we are still plagued by unacceptable levels of child poverty and child hunger, and still have far to go to ensure that kids get access to health care and early childhood development programs. I will keep fighting for ’s kids, and hope my colleagues do the same.” "We should not be persuaded merely by compassionate words -- we need to look at actions and votes, far too many of which are profoundly unjust to children, who are the poorest age group of Americans,” said CDF President Marian Wright Edelman. “Fortunately, leaders like Congressman Serrano are willing to stand up for our nation's children. “We thank Congressman Serrano and the members of Congress who voted in support of children 100 percent of the time, and we urge those who let children down to do better this year. Every Senator and every Representative needs to cast votes in 2005 that will help improve the lives of children, and every voter needs to hold them accountable.” As part of its mission to educate American voters about children’s issues, the Children's Defense Fund Action Council today released its annual nonpartisan rankings of Representatives and Senators based on their votes in Congress in 2004 on legislation affecting the lives of children. Individual members and state delegations in Congress were evaluated. Congressman Serrano scored a perfect 100% vote rating. Led by Marian Wright Edelman, the Children’s Defense Fund seeks to provide a strong, effective voice for all the children of who cannot vote, lobby, or speak for themselves. The Fund pays particular attention to the needs of poor and minority children and those with disabilities. CDF educates the nation about the needs of children and encourages preventive investment before they get sick, into trouble, drop out of school, or suffer family breakdown. CDF began in 1973 and is a private, nonprofit organization supported by foundation and corporate grants and individual donations, and has never taken government funds. ###
03.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 21, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Congressman Serrano's Comments at March 17th Baseball Hearing “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just going to make two comments very briefly. The first is a request, which probably falls more on the shoulders of Mr. Sosa and Mr. Palmeiro than anybody else. If we talk about an education program for young people, please remember that according to statistics, I think that 40 percent of all professional ball players from the rookie leagues up are Latin Americans. And so an educational program needs to include outreach to the , to , to , and to other places in Latin America. There have already been scandals reported about signing as free agents people in different parts of Latin America who are being beefed up and hurt with drugs. And so I hope that would happen. And secondly, I hope that as one of the last speakers today, you see us for who we are. I’m not a member of this committee. The chairman and the ranking member gave me the privilege of being here today because I, like so many of these people on this panel, are baseball fanatics. For me, baseball is not a game. It’s a passion. We may be looked at and some reporters may see us as politicians having another hearing, but the truth is that we’re concerned about a game we love. When Mr. McGwire and Mr. Sosa took us on that ride that summer, that wasn’t just hitting homeruns, that was a country hanging on to heroes. When Mr. Palmeiro -- I will watch you this summer as you become only the fourth player joining Aaron and Murray and Mays to get 500 homeruns and 3,000 hits. As a Latino, I feel proud, and as an American, I’ll be excited. Mr. Canseco, I wish I could have helped you get those 38 homeruns to reach 500. You stopped at 462. Perhaps baseball stopped you, you claim at times. And Mr. Schilling, even though you did it to my Yankees, you’re still my hero. That’s who you are. You are not just normal, regular people. It’s not the kids who look at you alone. That’s the excuse we use, saying “this autograph is for my son.” But it’s for me! I already signed up for Major League game day audio for my computer. I already brought my first 25 packs of baseball cards for this year to add to the closet full of baseball cards that I have at home. Mr. McGwire, I’ll never sell your rookie card. I’ll leave it to my children and my grandchildren because you’re heroes. There’s no price on my love of this game, and so I hope that when you leave here today and think about it tomorrow and the next day, that you not think of us as another legislative committee. I would hope that you think of us as no different as the people you see in the stands. We’re baseball fans who love this game, and we’re terrified of what could happen to it. I don’t like the fact that you’re here. I don’t like to see the breakup of the ‘Bash Brothers’ in front of me. I don’t like the fact that Mr. Sosa hasn’t smiled that famous smile. I don’t like the uneasiness of all of you today. You shouldn’t be here. Circumstances put you here. Please save the game. Without this game, this country is in deep trouble and I’d like to yield now to Mr. Waxman.” ###
03.19.2005	EMBARGOED UNTILMarch 19, 2005 11:06 AMContact: Ben Allen(202) 225-4361Congressman José Serrano (NY-16) to Deliver Democratic Hispanic Radio Address<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Congressman José Serrano (NY-16) will deliver the Democratic Hispanic Radio Address this <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Saturday, March 19, 2005. Below is the Spanish transcript and English translation of his address.The sound of Congressman Serrano’s address can be obtained through your local Univisión Radio affiliates, Radio Fórmula, Radiovisa, Radio Bilingüe, Latino Broadcasting Corporation affiliates, or CNN en Español after 11:06 a.m. Eastern Time on Saturday, March 19, 2005.The embargoed sound can also be obtained at: http://democraticleader.house.gov/spanish031905.mp3 in MP3 format (English transcript below)* * *Embargado hasta 11:06 a.m. (EST), sábado, 19 de marzo de 2005El congresista José Serrano (NY-16) emitirá el Mensaje Demócrata por Radio El congresista José Serrano (NY-16) emitirá el Mensaje Demócrata por Radio este sábado, 19 de marzo de 2005. Adjunto el texto en inglés y en español de su difusión. El audio para la difusión del congresista Serrano puede ser obtenido a través de su afiliada local de Univisión Radio, Radio Fórmula, Radiovisa, Radio Bilingüe, Latino Broadcasting Corporation, o CNN en Español luego de las 11:06 a.m. hora este el sábado, 19 de marzo de 2005. El audio, embargado hasta el sábado a las 11:06 a.m., también puede ser obtenido a través de la siguiente página: http://democraticleader.house.gov/spanish031905.mp3 en formato MP3* * *Mensaje Demócrata por RadioCongresista José SerranoFecha de difusión: sábado, 19 de marzo de 2005“Buenos días. Les habla el Congresista José Serrano de New York. “Esta semana el Congreso aprobó un plan de presupuesto para los gastos del gobierno que es inmoral. El Presidente y el Congreso republicano decidieron hacer recortes severos que hacen un daño enorme a la comunidad hispana. Esta administración volvió a favorecer a sus amigos ricos, por encima de nuestro pueblo trabajador. Sus recortes irresponsables de impuestos para los ricos han dejado a nuestra comunidad sin los recursos valiosos para poder progresar en este país. Y como si eso fuera poco, los republicanos en la Cámara aprobaron un proyecto de gastos de Irak que incluye el desastroso “REAL ID Act,” que no es otra cosa que un ataque frontal a los inmigrantes de esta nación. “La diferencia entre los republicanos y los demócratas es muy sencilla. Las políticas de los republicanos son de recortarle impuestos a los que menos los necesitan y a expensas de la clase media. Los demócratas pudimos lograr la disciplina fiscal, a la vez que creamos 20 millones de empleos nuevos, durante la década de los 90. Nosotros queremos cuadrar el presupuesto y enfocarnos en las verdaderas necesidades de nuestra gente: más y mejores empleos, un seguro de salud accesible para todos, darle a nuestros veteranos lo que se merecen y proveerle oportunidades a todos por igual. “Desgraciadamente, ese no ha sido el camino que han seguido los republicanos. El desempleo hispano ha subido a un 6.4 porciento, con 1.2 millones de hispanos que siguen buscando trabajo. Sin embargo, el presupuesto desperdicia casi unos $2 mil millones, por los próximos 10 años, en reducciones adicionales de impuestos para los ricos. Pero el presupuesto del Presidente Bush no hace nada para crear buenos empleos que paguen justos salarios aquí en casa. Sabemos que hay más de 1 millón de negocios pequeños de dueños hispanos, pero el presidente Bush le recortó $85 millones a la Administración de Pequeños Negocios, cuando lo comparamos con el presupuesto del año pasado. “Pero, eso no es todo. Uno de cada tres hispanos no tiene seguro médico. A pesar de esto, el presupuesto republicano le recortó $45 mil millones a Medicaid. Y luego de toda las palabras sobre lo mucho que el presidente apoya a nuestras tropas y lo supuestamente patriótico que se canta ser, el presupuesto que su partido aprobó le recortó casi $2 mil millones a los veteranos que se han ganado estos beneficios y que tanto lo necesitan. Hay 1.2 millones de veteranos hispanos, muchos de ellos ni siquiera son ciudadanos. Este no es el trato que ellos se merecen por todos sus sacrificios. “Los demócratas, por otro lado, siempre hemos defendido a los trabajadores, a nuestros veteranos y a los más necesitados. Nuestro Nuevo Pacto para el Futuro de los Estados Unidos, propone medidas específicas que crearían 10 millones de empleos nuevos. También cerraría la brecha en cuanto a los planes de salud para las minorías y fortalecería nuestra seguridad interna, al igual que a nuestras comunidades. “El pueblo latino sabe quiénes son los que siempre los han defendido y nuestro partido seguirá luchando junto a nuestras comunidades. A diferencia de los republicanos, nosotros los demócratas siempre escogeremos a las familias trabajadoras, por encima de los intereses de las corporaciones multi-millonarias. “Les habló el Congresista José Serrano de New York. Gracias por su atención.” * * *Democratic Hispanic Radio AddressCongressman José SerranoAir Date: March 19, 2005 “Good morning. I am Congressman José Serrano from New York. “This week, Congress approved an immoral budget resolution for government spending. The President and the Republican Congress decided to make severe cuts that will gravely harm the Hispanic community. This Administration again chose their rich friends over our working families. Their irresponsible tax cuts for the super rich have left our community without the valuable resources necessary to progress in this country. And, as if this were not enough, House Republicans approved a supplemental spending bill for Iraq that includes the controversial ‘REAL ID’ Act, which is nothing more than a frontal attack on our nation’s immigrants. “The difference between Republicans and Democrats is simple. Republican policies are all about tax cuts for those who need them least, at the expense of the middle class. Democrats were able to achieve fiscal discipline, at the same time that we created 20 million new jobs, during the 1990s. We believe in balancing the budget and focusing on the real issues that face our people: more and better paying jobs, affordable health care for all, supporting our veterans, and providing equal opportunities for all. “Unfortunately, this has not been the path that Republicans have taken. Hispanic unemployment has gone up to 6.4 percent, with 1.2 million Hispanics looking for work. Yet, the budget wastes $2 billion, over the next 10 years in more tax cuts for the rich, but the Bush budget does nothing to create new jobs here at home. Moreover, there are one million Latino-owned small businesses, but the President cut $85 million from the Small Business Administration, compared with last year. “But that’s not all. One out of every three Hispanics has no health insurance. Despite this, the Republican budget cuts $45 billion to Medicaid. And, after all the rhetoric of how much the President supports our troops and all the supposedly patriotic speeches he has made, the budget that his party approved provides $2 billion less than what our veterans need, and that they have earned. There are 1.2 million Hispanic veterans, many of whom are not even citizens. This is hardly the treatment that they deserve for their sacrifice. “Democrats on the other hand, have always defended our workers, our veterans and the less fortunate in our society. Our New Partnership for America’s Future contains specific proposals that would create 10 million new jobs. It would also close the health care gap for minorities, and strengthen our national security, as well as our communities. “Latinos know who has always defended their rights, and our party will continue to fight together with the community. In contrast with the Republicans, Democrats will always chose working families over wealthy corporate interests. “I am Congressman José Serrano from New York. Thank you for listening.” ###
03.02.2005	Washington, DC - This exhibition of abstract paintings of flowers features a collaboration between Joseph & Donna McElroy of Corporate Performance Artists (CorporatePA), a South Bronx-based arts collective, and children from The Point’s after school program. The Point is an innovative community arts organization in the Hunts Point neighborhood of the South Bronx.The children artists are: Anabel Torres, Angel Torres, Chevanne Morris, Deana Rivera, Destiny Capeles, Jildo Marin, Justin Ortiz, Keishon Newell, Laquann Schultz, Michael Mingo, Oreill Henry, Vivian Kane, and Zuleima Vega. This exhibit tells stories of the community and peoples of the Bronx, as expressed by children of the community via a visual exploration of flowers executed in paint and mixed media. CorporatePA believes that the Bronx is changing, becoming more multi-cultural, and so intensely filled with information and alternative traditions that no single artist can tell its full story. The exhibit will be on display at Congressman Serrano's Bronx office at 788 Southern Boulevard through April 30th.
03.02.2005	Washington, DC, March 2, 2005--This Wednesday, under questioning from Congressman Serrano, new Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said that he wants “to emphasize” the streamlining of the humanitarian visa granting process. The questions came during a hearing of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Serrano is a member. The Homeland Security Department currently offers “Humanitarian Parole” to individuals with extraordinary humanitarian reasons for entering the United States, and who have exhausted regular avenues for acquiring a US visa. In asking his question, Congressman Serrano alluded to two such cases when the Department of Homeland Security had offered humanitarian visas to constituents of his at his prodding: the case of the Ecuadorian mother of Byron Mantuano, Jr., a young boy hit by a car and currently in a coma, and whose mother had been refused a visa to come to States to be with him, and the case of José Orellana, dying of kidney-related complications, and whose sister Enma Patricia Orellana Flores had been denied a visa when she applied to travel to the United States from El Salvador to donate her kidney to him (she was a compatible donor). While Serrano was successful in helping obtain humanitarian visas in these two cases, he said that the process was too restrictive. “We've been very successful in my office in dealing with homeland security on the issue of humanitarian visas, people who come in for anything from a sister who wanted to help her brother with a kidney transplant to a mother to visit her son who was in a coma hit by a car in the Bronx,” said Serrano during the hearing. “But the time in getting it done is somewhat disturbing. And I understand the need to secure the homeland. I'm just wondering, as I asked at another hearing prior, if there are mechanisms either in place or beginning to be put in place to make sure that we draw a distinct line between that person we want to keep out of the country and that person that we know needs to come here temporarily for a visit.” In response, Chertoff said that he knew that while the United States needs to keep “bad people out,” it also needs to “bring good people in.” The very act of letting such “good” people in, he suggested, “has a positive security implication,” in that it creates “goodwill ambassadors who go back and help us. So we do have… an effort as part of our general program to streamline the process for people who want to be good visitors or do something humanitarian. And I think I want to emphasize that as well as our security concerns.” Serrano, clearly heartened by Chertoff’s response, said later that he hopes that this streamlining will make it easier for people in desperate need to enter the country if necessary. “These visas are given to people whose families are really suffering, and it is important that in our effort to protect the homeland we not go overboard in preventing legitimate humanitarian visa requests from going through,” said Serrano. “I hope the Secretary moves forward on his promise to emphasize the humanitarian as well as the security element in our visa processes. It’s the right thing to do.”
03.02.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 2, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Questions Homeland Security Chief About Humanitarian Visas Washington, DC, March 2, 2005--This Wednesday, under questioning from Congressman Serrano, new Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said that he wants “to emphasize” the streamlining of the humanitarian visa granting process. The questions came during a hearing of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Serrano is a member. The Homeland Security Department currently offers “Humanitarian Parole” to individuals with extraordinary humanitarian reasons for entering the , and who have exhausted regular avenues for acquiring a visa. In asking his question, Congressman Serrano alluded to two such cases when the Department of Homeland Security had offered humanitarian visas to constituents of his at his prodding: the case of the Ecuadorian mother of Byron Mantuano, Jr., a young boy hit by a car and currently in a coma, and whose mother had been refused a visa to come to States to be with him, and the case of José Orellana, dying of kidney-related complications, and whose sister Enma Patricia Orellana Flores had been denied a visa when she applied to travel to the United States from El Salvador to donate her kidney to him (she was a compatible donor). While Serrano was successful in helping obtain humanitarian visas in these two cases, he said that the process was too restrictive. “We've been very successful in my office in dealing with homeland security on the issue of humanitarian visas, people who come in for anything from a sister who wanted to help her brother with a kidney transplant to a mother to visit her son who was in a coma hit by a car in the Bronx,” said Serrano during the hearing. “But the time in getting it done is somewhat disturbing. And I understand the need to secure the homeland. I'm just wondering, as I asked at another hearing prior, if there are mechanisms either in place or beginning to be put in place to make sure that we draw a distinct line between that person we want to keep out of the country and that person that we know needs to come here temporarily for a visit.” In response, Chertoff said that he knew that while the needs to keep “bad people out,” it also needs to “bring good people in.” The very act of letting such “good” people in, he suggested, “has a positive security implication,” in that it creates “goodwill ambassadors who go back and help us. So we do have… an effort as part of our general program to streamline the process for people who want to be good visitors or do something humanitarian. And I think I want to emphasize that as well as our security concerns.” Serrano, clearly heartened by Chertoff’s response, said later that he hopes that this streamlining will make it easier for people in desperate need to enter the country if necessary. “These visas are given to people whose families are really suffering, and it is important that in our effort to protect the homeland we not go overboard in preventing legitimate humanitarian visa requests from going through,” said Serrano. “I hope the Secretary moves forward on his promise to emphasize the humanitarian as well as the security element in our visa processes. It’s the right thing to do.” ###
02.22.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 22, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano to Celebrate Black History Month, Host Check Presentation Ceremonies for BOEDC and Pro Co Technology Please join us for three events involving Congressman José E. Serrano today and tomorrow: ****************************************************************************** WHAT: Congressman Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano host a Celebration of Black History Month, honoring community leaders Theodore Jefferson, Executive Director of Bronx Shepherds Restoration Corporation; Catherine Stroud, President of 1600 Sedgwick Avenue Tenants Association, Executive Director of River Watch, Inc., and Democratic State Comitteewoman; Hans E. Hageman, Esq., Executive Director of Boys and Girls Harbor, Inc.; and Shaun M. Belle, President and CEO of the Mount Hope Housing Company. WHEN: 4:00 PM, Tuesday, February 22, 2005 WHERE: Congressman Serrano’s Office, 788 Southern Blvd. (near Longwood Avenue ) ****************************************************************************** WHAT: Check Presentation Ceremony for the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation—$500,000 for the ongoing effort to revitalize the Harlem River (specifically to administer the design and development of the Harlem River waterfront) and $300,000 for technical assistance opportunities for local businesses. The assistance includes financial services packaging, business plan development, coordination of service referrals, licensing information, job fulfillment assistance, and real estate referrals. WHEN: 11:00 AM, Wednesday, February 23, 2005 WHERE: BOEDC, 198 East 161st Street, Suite 201 (2nd Floor)—1 block east of the Grand Concourse ******************************************************************************WHAT: Check Presentation Ceremony for Pro Co Technology—$750,000 for a computer-learning center for community residents. This center will offer free lessons on computer usage to all interested individuals, using state-of-the-art computers with the most up-to-date software to promote technological advancement within the inner city community of the South Bronx. WHEN: 4:00 PM, Wednesday, February 23, 2005 WHERE: Pro Co Technology, 647 East 180th Street (between Belmont and Hughes Avenues), East Tremont ******************************************************************************# ###
02.22.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 22, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serranos Mark Black History Month, Honor Community Leaders February 22, 2005—This afternoon, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-Bronx) and State Senator José M. Serrano (D-East Harlem/South Bronx) celebrated Black History Month, honoring community leaders and evoking the legacy of the African-American civil rights struggle as “unfinished work.” At an event held at Congressman Serrano’s Bronx office, Theodore Jefferson, Executive Director of Bronx Shepherds Restoration Corporation; Catherine Stroud, President of 1600 Sedgwick Avenue Tenants Association, Executive Director of River Watch, Inc., and Democratic State Committeewoman; Hans E. Hageman, Esq., Executive Director of Boys and Girls Harbor, Inc.; and Shaun M. Belle, President and CEO of the Mount Hope Housing Company were presented with State Senate proclamations and Congressional Record statements honoring their service. “Black History Month is an opportunity for us to reflect upon the struggles and successes of the past and the challenges of the future,” said Congressman Serrano. “All Americans are indebted to the giants of African-American history who fought to make the United States a fairer, more just nation—from Sojourner Truth and Harriet Tubman to Rosa Parks, from Frederick Douglass, WEB DuBois, and A Philip Randolph to Thurgood Marshall and Martin Luther King, Jr., the list goes on and on. And you know, as a Puerto Rican who came of age politically during the 1960s, I am particularly aware of and grateful for the thousands of African-American activists who fought for civil rights for all Americans. Their stories are our inspiration, but while we celebrate their achievements we also remember how far we have yet to go. That is why today we are honoring modern-day heroes of African-American New York, leaders who have devoted their lives to bring us closer to Dr. King’s dream for America.” “I’m so proud to honor Cathy Stroud, Ted Jefferson, Hans Hageman, and Shaun Belle today,” said Senator Serrano. “Each one is an exemplary leader dedicated to public service, fighting every day to improve the lives of those in our community. The work of all four does honor to the legacy of the heroes of Black History Month, and we celebrate them today.” For the past 18 years Ted Jefferson has served as Executive Director of the Bronx Shepherds Restoration Corporation, an organization that offers home ownership opportunities to first-time home buyers. He also serves a volunteer with numerous community organizations, including the Morris Heights Neighborhood Improvement Association, the Webster Action Committee, Community Boards #3 and #6, and the Twin Parks Association. Cathy Stroud has served as President of the Tenant Association for her building for nearly two decades. She also is Executive Director of River Watch, Inc., a neighborhood network center that provides training, homework assistance, after-school activities and trips for community youth. Shaun Belle is President and CEO of Mount Hope Housing Company, a community organization that develops and manages affordable housing while providing youth services, employment and job training for youth, real estate development and family asset building. Hans Hageman, Esq. is Executive Director of the Boys and Girls Harbor, a venerable youth organization in East Harlem. A lifelong East Harlem resident, Hageman served as Chief Counsel for the Neighborhood Defender Service of Harlem and was Minority Chief Counsel and Staff Director to the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on the Constitution and an Assistant District Attorney in the Office of Special Narcotics Prosecution of New York’s County District Attorney’s Office. The text of the Senate proclamations and Congressional Record statements honoring Messrs. Jefferson, Hageman, and Belle and Ms. Stroud are available upon request. Photos of the event can be found here.
02.17.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 17, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serranos Remember Yolanda Garcia, Praise Her Legacy Founder of Nos Quedamos Praised For Her Unstinting Belief in the Future of the Bronx Bronx, NY, February 17, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano and State Senator José M. Serrano marked the passing of Yolanda Garcia, Founder and Executive Director of Nos Quedamos/We Stay Committee, Inc. “She was a fighter for our community, a leader, and a close friend,” said Congressman Serrano. “She loved her community fiercely and worked every day of her life to reclaim it and help it flourish. Yolanda Garcia never gave up believing in the South Bronx.” “We’re saddened by this major loss for the community,” said Senator Serrano. “Yolanda Garcia fought for the South Bronx tirelessly, and refused to give in to pessimism and defeatism. We’re going to miss her tremendously.” In the late 1980’s, planners from the NYC Housing and Preservation Department unveiled a huge urban renewal plan for a 63-block area in the Melrose section of the South Bronx. Characterized by large swaths of vacant land and city-owned property, Melrose came to symbolize the public and private sector’s wholesale abandonment of the South Bronx in the 60’s and 70’s. The proposed redevelopment called for large-scale displacement of long-time residents and businesses in the area. Despite the City’s abandonment of the neighborhood, there were still nearly 6,000 people living in Melrose who were determined to remain and fight for their community’s future. These residents and businesses formed the Nos Quedamos Committtee to resist the Melrose Commons Plan (Nos Quedamos is Spanish for “We Stay”). For several years, led by Ms. Garcia, Nos Quedamos embarked on an intense, weekly series of open community meetings with city officials and politicians to successfully force wholesale revisions to the original plan. Since then, Garcia turned the organization into a major force for advocacy and community revitalization in Melrose and in the Bronx as a whole. Nos Quedamos and their partners have created hundreds of units of housing for seniors, families, and new homeowners. They have rebuilt entire blocks of abandoned, city-owned land with new, owner-occupied townhouses and multi-family apartments. Garcia was also a leader in the South Bronx environmental movement who lost a son to asthma and struggled mightily to ensure that other families would not have to suffer from such tragedy. Her environmental efforts led Garcia to work closely with Congressman Serrano on the South Bronx Environmental Health and Policy Study (on asthma and its environmental triggers), where they have succeeded in focusing public attention on the devastating effects of air pollution on the South Bronx.” “Yolanda was building something very special in a neighborhood that everyone had written off,” said Congressman Serrano. “But she was so much more than a neighborhood advocate. She was a builder, a believer, a leader known city-wide for her work on behalf of environmental justice. She was a source of inspiration, a great friend, and a sister to me, and I’m going to miss her terribly. Yolanda Garcia was the South Bronx’s guardian angel.” ###
02.09.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 9, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano: Republicans Unrelenting in Pushing Anti-Immigrant Agenda, Talk of Inclusiveness Nothing But Empty Rhetoric Washington, DC, February 9, 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) expressed dismay at the Republican-dominated Rules Committee’s decision last night to let the so-called “REAL ID Act of 2005” move toward passage. The Republican-proposed bill would make a number of changes to our immigration laws, including making it more difficult for refugees to prove their asylum claims and imposing federal driver’s license requirements on state governments. It is anticipated that this bill will be brought up for a vote on the House floor tomorrow. “Republicans talk a good game about inclusion and then waste no time in pushing a series of immigrant-bashing measures through the House,” said Serrano. “This shameful legislation should not be up for consideration. It tramples on states’ rights, does nothing to make us safer, and picks on some of society’s most vulnerable people. And by throwing out all laws and regulations related to the construction of a fence on our border, it will roll back a series of vital environmental standards that protect our nation’s border communities. This is bad legislation through and through, and it is incredible that the Republicans are letting it progress through the House.” Last night, the Republican-controlled Rules Committee laid down standards to facilitate the consideration of their anti-immigrant measures on the House floor. This was despite overwhelming evidence suggesting that the measures do nothing to make our nation safer. “That the Republicans invoke the September 11th tragedy to push these anti-immigrant measures particularly pains me as a New Yorker,” continued Serrano. “Their proposed asylum restrictions, for example, do nothing to protect the nation and unfairly target a group of people who have already suffered much. Asylees already go through a much more stringent security clearance process than other newcomers. Terrorists and suspected terrorists, of course, are already barred from asylum. And let us remember that none of the 9/11 Hijackers were pursuing claims for asylum. “The driver’s license measures actually threaten to make our roads less safe while throwing yet another unfunded mandate on the states. Even if this bill had been in place before the 9/11 attacks, the hijackers would have been able to obtain a driver's license or state-issued ID, because they were all here on legal visas. The bill is opposed by many in local government and law enforcement because it could prevent undocumented immigrants from entering into in any government database, thus taking away an important tool from law enforcement officials who need to be able to separate otherwise law-abiding undocumented workers from terrorists or criminals. “The other problem with outlawing licenses for undocumented immigrants is that many of them will drive anyway. The situation could lead to more unqualified drivers on the road (drivers who haven’t taken the usual driver’s license tests), more hit-and-run accidents, and drivers less likely to seek automobile insurance. “Lastly, the measures related to eliminating all laws restricting the construction of a barrier along the border are written so broadly so as to threaten to roll back crucial environmental protections in the border region. “This bill is wrong for national security, wrong for immigrants, wrong for our environment, wrong for states’ rights, and wrong for basic American values of fairness and justice. That they are pushing these measures shows that the Republicans’ commitment to inclusiveness is nothing but empty rhetoric. I will fight this legislation with all my strength.” # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments and the Federal Judiciary, as well as the FBI, DEA, SBA, and Census Bureau. A member of the Democratic Party leadership, he serves as Vice-Chair of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.
02.07.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 7, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 A Matter of Priorities Republican Budget for 2006 is Fiscally Irresponsible and Morally Reprehensible WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY) rejected the Bush Administration’s proposed 2006 budget as reckless, irresponsible, and morally reprehensible. “Our greatest responsibility is to leave our children a world that is safer, more prosperous, more secure, and more fair,” said Serrano. “This budget fails that test. It is fiscally irresponsible. It is morally reprehensible. And it demonstrates a failure to lead. This budget pays for aggressive tax cuts for the wealthy on the backs of ’s working people.” The Bush Administration’s proposed 2006 budget would add more than $4 trillion to the deficit in the next 10 years. It fails to include the cost of the war in , increases the cost of health care for veterans, and cuts funding for critical programs that keep cops on the street and ensure our firefighters have essential equipment. It squanders trillions of dollars on tax breaks for the wealthy and cuts billions in vital education, health care, housing, and environmental programs. The budget also fails to include any additional details on the Bush Administration’s radical plan to cut Social Security benefits by almost 50 percent for millions of retirees. The Republican budget would slash law enforcement grants to states from $2.8 billion to $1.5 billion. It would cut 48 education programs totaling $4.3 billion, including $2.2 billion for high school programs, mostly state grants for vocational education. It would cut $440 million in Safe and Drug-Free School grants, $500 million in education technology state grants, $225 million for the Even Start literacy program, $280 million for Upward Bound programs for inner-city youths and a $150 million talent research program. The budget includes no subsidy for Amtrak and would eliminate $20 million for the next generation of high-speed rail and $250 million for railroad rehabilitation. Several Energy Department programs would be eliminated, as would $100 million in grants for land and water conservation. The budget proposal would cut $94 million in grants for the Healthy Communities Access Program and phase out rural health grants, despite the fact that President Bush had touted his commitment to such programs during his reelection campaign. The president would terminate the Community Food and Nutrition Program, and cut a migrant and seasonal farm worker training program. He would renew his effort to cut a $143 million program for the removal of severely distressed housing. “On every issue our nation faces, it is our responsibility to ensure that the policies we pursue are consistent with the values we cherish,” said Rep. Serrano. “This reprehensible budget clearly shows that Republicans are out of touch with ’s values and the real needs of working people. To slash vital programs while locking in tax breaks for the wealthy is unconscionable. This budget increases the deficit while irresponsibly cutting important environmental initiatives, hunger alleviation programs in places such as the Bronx, vital housing funds, programs to help inner city youth, the list goes on and on. It’s one thing to say that we all need to tighten our belts. But to make ’s working people pay for further tax cuts for the wealthy is reprehensible.” “This President inherited a $127 billion surplus and managed to turn it into a $412 billion deficit with his reckless tax cuts for the wealthy and his costly war in . The Republicans have taken fiscal irresponsibility to a whole new level, while showing very little compassion for working Americans. Over the coming months, Democrats will fight for a budget that reflects the values of ’s working families: national security, prosperity, opportunity, fairness, community, and accountability,” continued Serrano. “A responsible budget is the first step towards building a future worthy of the trust of the American people, the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform, and the aspirations of all of ’s children.” # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments and the Federal Judiciary, as well as the FBI, DEA, SBA, and Census Bureau. A member of the Democratic Party leadership, he serves as Vice-Chair of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.
02.02.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 2, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Recognized as Environmental Champion Voting Record Earns Top Honors from League of Conservation Voters, National Parks Conservation Association Washington, D.C. - Today, José E. Serrano (D-NY) was honored with a Friend of the National Parks award from the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) for his contribution to protecting and enhancing ’s national parks. The award was presented to Members of Congress with exceptional pro-Parks voting records during the 108th Congress (2003-2004). This honor follows on Serrano’s earning of a perfect 100% environmental voting record, according to the League of Conservation Voters’ National Environmental Scorecard for 2004. “Our National Parks protect and preserve our national heritage and that’s why I’m so proud to accept this award today,” said Serrano. “I will continue to advocate for both our global environment as well as environmental justice for our communities in New York. People in areas such as the Bronx are most affected by environmental degradation, and I will continue to fight to make sure that their environment is not shortchanged.” NPCA’s Friend of the National Parks award was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ votes on significant park issues. The organization examined six key House votes from the 108th Congress to determine which members voted to support national park or related public land legislation. Congressman Serrano earned a 100% pro-park voting record from the NPCA. “'s national parks are under siege, suffering from insufficient funding, chronic air pollution, and other threats. Representative Serrano’s support is essential for the restoration and preservation of these beloved places,” said National Parks Conservation Association President Tom Kiernan. “We look forward to working with him to increase funding and protections for the national parks.” The NPCA award is the latest in a series of environmental honors for Serrano. The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) recently released its prestigious National Environmental Scorecard for 2004 with 11 key environmental votes tallied. On the LCV’s scorecard, Serrano earned a 100% pro-environment voting record. “Rep. Serrano's perfect LCV score in 2004 reflects his deep commitment to the issues that affect his nation and his constituents,” said LCV president Deb Callahan. “A Congress full of Jose Serrano's would have us all - literally - breathing easier.” “I am proud to call myself an environmentalist,” said Serrano. “And I will continue to stand up to the corporate interests here in Washington and make sure that we do our job to preserve and protect our environment. I have seen the adverse affects of environmental problems first-hand in my own district, where our children suffer from inordinately high asthma rates, for example. We can do so much better but unfortunately many here in Washington lack the political will to do what’s right.” Serrano has secured millions of dollars of federal funding for environmental projects in the Bronx, including Bronx River restoration, funding for the Harlem River Greenway, a major university study on the adverse effects of air pollution and asthma in the South Bronx, and a myriad of smaller parks and greenspace projects throughout the borough, as well as funding for the clean-up of the former Navy bombing range on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques. Last month, Serrano introduced innovative legislation on the House floor to create tax incentives for clean fuel vehicle use in highly-polluted areas. Photos of the awards ceremony are available upon request. # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments and the Federal Judiciary, as well as the FBI, DEA, SBA, and Census Bureau. A member of the Democratic Party leadership, he serves as Vice-Chair of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.
01.27.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 27, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano: Despite Talk of “Outreach” to Hispanics, First Thing Republicans Do in New Congressional Session Is Bash Immigrants Republican Attempt to Tie Tsunami Relief and War Funding to Anti-Immigrant Measures “Outrageous” Washington, DC, January 27 2005— Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) expressed outrage today at the prospect of a series of anti-immigrant measures being attached to the supplemental appropriations bill that will fund relief efforts for tsunami victims and our troops overseas. “Republicans have been talking a lot about reaching out to Hispanics, and yet the first measure they send to Congress is choc-full of immigrant-bashing,” said Serrano. “While immigrants and the sons and daughters of immigrants are fighting and dying for our country overseas, the GOP is pulling the rug out from under their families back home. Republicans should never have let these measures see the light of day in the first place, let alone slip them into a piece of legislation as high-profile as the supplemental. Members of Congress should not be forced to choose between voting to fund tsunami relief and voting against these anti-immigrant provisions that trample on states’ rights and make it exceedingly difficult to claim asylum.” According to CQ Today’s January 27 lead story, the Republican leadership is inserting into the supplemental appropriations bill provisions that would make it much more difficult for immigrants to claim asylum in the United States, force immigrants to show proof of legal residence in order to receive a driver’s license, and help complete a fence along the California border with Mexico. This creates a situation in which Members of Congress will be forced to choose between funding the war and tsunami relief efforts and voting for a number of highly-controversial anti-immigrant provisions. “The Republican leadership should be ashamed for even thinking about including these provisions into the bill that will fund tsunami relief and the war in ,” said Serrano. “These very different issues should be voted upon separately. Hispanics should not be fooled—the Republicans talk a good game about Hispanic outreach, and then the first thing they do when they get back to Congress is to push a bill that bashes away at immigrants.” # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York, in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments.
01.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 25, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Double Jeopardy, Bronx-Style Congressman Serrano “Hits the Big Time” on National Gameshow January 25, 2005, Washington, DC—In his over thirty years of elected office, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) has had his share of air time—countless talk show appearances, interviews, even scoring a role as a judge on an episode of NBC’s Law & Order. But he was certainly surprised last night when he learned that he had reached a new level of pop culture status—being a question on Jeopardy. As last night’s show progressed to the Double Jeopardy round, contestant Ted Stratton chose the $1200 question under the category “Jose Can You See.” The contestants—Stratton, Tom McFarland, and Katie Heim— were then asked “Born in Puerto Rico, U.S. Congressman José Serrano represents a district in this eastern state.” Unfortunately, none of them knew the answer, “What is New York?” Needless to say, neither Stratton, McFarland, nor Heim are from New York. “A question on Jeopardy? Now I know I’ve really hit the big time,” laughed Serrano. “It was great seeing my name up there, but I would’ve felt better if one of the contestants had gotten the answer right! Maybe I need to invite them up to my district in the Bronx and show them around a bit.” Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress for fifteen years, and is the only Congressman from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee. Jeopardy, the nationally-syndicated ABC game show, has been on air since 1984, has won 24 Daytime Emmys, and has an estimated audience of 12 million viewers. # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments and related agencies, including the FBI, DEA, SBA, and Census Bureau. A member of the Democratic Party leadership, he serves as Vice-Chair of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.
01.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 21, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Calls on Administration to Heed President’s Soaring Inaugural Rhetoric on Social Issues, Venezuelan Democracy Washington, DC, January 21 2005—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) issued the following statement: “Yesterday, we celebrated democracy and our political process, and wished President Bush well on his inauguration. The election last year was a close-fought battle over ideas and vision, and Bush emerged victorious by a slim margin. But even in victory, George Bush has proven divisive. He was re-inaugurated with the lowest approval ratings for any president entering a second term since such ratings were first recorded. And despite talk about uniting the nation, some of his second-term cabinet and court appointments have raised questions about his commitment to governing for all Americans. “I hope that he and his advisors pay heed to many of the stirring comments made yesterday in the inaugural address, and I call on them to protect our civil liberties, minority rights, and our nation’s commitment to social justice, while respecting democracy in places such as . “President Bush’s inaugural address was a fine speech of soaring and often inspiring rhetoric, particularly about the importance of defending democracy. The President said that ‘when the soul of a nation finally speaks, the institutions that arise may reflect customs and traditions very different from our own. will not impose our own style of government on the unwilling. Our goal instead is to help others find their own voice, attain their own freedom, and make their own way.’ I hope that Condoleeza Rice, who recently attacked during her confirmation hearings, reflects upon the President’s call for respecting other nations’ self-determination around the world, and ensures that we don’t bash democratically-elected leaders in our own hemisphere while coddling dictators in the Middle East. Every time I turn around it seems Hugo Chavez is winning another election by vote margins far wider than anything George Bush ever received. “The President also spoke about ‘the unfinished work of American freedom’ and spoke extensively about liberty. It is vitally important that the freedoms and liberties for which Americans have fought and died be respected and protected by our government. It is my hope that the administration will do a better job protecting our civil liberties than it did during its first four years in office. And along those lines, I would ask that it pay heed to the President’s comments that ‘we cannot carry the message of freedom and the baggage of bigotry at the same time’ and do its utmost to protect and strengthen our civil rights laws and cease its baiting of certain minority communities, such as the gay community. “The President also spoke of making our nation more ‘prosperous and just and equal’ and said that ‘in ’s ideal of freedom, the exercise of rights is ennobled by service and mercy and a heart for the weak.’ I would call on him to take his call for equality seriously and roll back his tax breaks for the wealthy and put more emphasis on policies that help those who really need help. If he really wants a more ‘just and equal’ society, he can not in good conscience continue to push for sweeping tax cuts for the wealthy, tax loopholes for mega-corporations, and more and more money for the war in while slashing Social Security, Medicaid, small business loan programs, and access to Section 8 housing. “As a Democrat, I am keenly aware of the fact that half of the country was very troubled by President Bush’s first four years in office, and have deep concerns about his second term. We will remain vigilant, challenge the President, and hold him to the promise of much of what he said yesterday. The millions of Americans who supported us with their prayers and their votes deserve nothing less.” # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York, in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments and related agencies, including the FBI, DEA, SBA, and Census Bureau. He also serves as Vice-Chair of the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.
01.13.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 13, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Congressman José E. Serrano’s Bronx Office to Host Exhibition of Local Photographers’ Work Congressman Serrano’s Office in the Bronx will highlight the work of several local photographers from Image Griots, a Hunts Point-based photography collective. The group’s new exhibit, Speaking of the Bronx: Blurred Boundaries, will open this Friday evening (January 14th) and will run through February 10th. This is the first in a series of exhibits at the Congressman’s District Office to celebrate the work of local artists. It is being presented in honor of the Congressman’s thirtieth year in public life and represents thirty years of images of the Bronx. DATE: Friday, January 14th WHAT: Opening of Photography exhibition by Image Griots TIME: 6:00 PM WHERE: 788 Southern Boulevard Bronx, New York 10455 Image Griots is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization that provides photography training, education, and marketing assistance to Bronx-based photographers. It is housed in the legendary American Banknote Building. Their gifted photographers are important members of the growing arts community that has sprung up in the Hunts Point, Port Morris, and Mott Haven neighborhoods. Artists whose work is featured in the exhibition at Serrano’s office will include: Lyric Cabral, Atsede Elegba, Howard Cash, Bilal Salaam, Randolph Waterman, Emilia Wiles, Salimah Ali, Ray Llanos, June Truesdale, Robert Munroe, Terrence Kirton, and Mark Nevers. ###
01.10.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 10, 2005 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Hails Election of “Dear Friend” Kenneth McClintock as New Puerto Rican Senate President Washington, DC, January 10, 2005—This afternoon, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) hailed the sweeping election of Kenneth McClintock to the presidency of the Puerto Rican Senate. Today, he won the Senate Presidency by a 23-0 with two abstentions. “I am very pleased to congratulate Kenneth McClintock today on his election to the Senate Presidency—this is an excellent day for Puerto Rico!” said Serrano. “I first met Ken when he was 19, and remember being struck by his sense of service, commitment, energy, and dedication. I knew that he was a young man who was ‘going places,’ and have followed his impressive career closely for the last three decades. He has been an exceptional leader both for the Democratic Party and Puerto Ricans of all political persuasions. I am very excited to work with him as we work to make sure that Puerto Rico gets its fair share of federal help.” Serrano and McClintock first met at the 1976 Democratic National Convention at Madison Square Garden in New York City. McClintock was a college student and Serrano was just two years into his first term in the New York State Assembly representing the South Bronx. They kept in touch, and met again when Serrano visited San Juan in 1979 as Chairman of the New York State Assembly’s Consumer Affairs Committee. McClintock was Director of Personnel for the Consumer Affairs Committee in the Puerto Rican House at the time. The two developed a professional friendship that was strengthened by a mutual belief in both the principles of the Democratic Party and the importance of ending Puerto Rico’s colonial status. Over the years, as the men have progressed in their careers, Serrano joining the United States Congress and House Appropriations Committee and McClintock entering the Senate and serving as Chairman of the Federal Affairs Committee, the two worked closely together to ensure that Puerto Rico got its fair share in federal spending. “Kenneth McClintock is a trusted personal friend with a deep love for Puerto Rico,” said Serrano. “I know that he will continue to serve Puerto Rico with distinction, and I will be there working alongside him for the betterment of the island.” # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York, in Congress since 1990. He is the longest-serving Member of Congress of Puerto Rican descent, only Member from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and also serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments and related agencies, including the FBI, DEA, SBA, and Census Bureau.
01.04.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 4, 2004 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Sworn in to 109th Congress Introduces Several Bills for Consideration by New Congress Washington, DC, January 4, 2004—Today, Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) took the oath of office for the 109th Congress, which will be his ninth term in the United States House of Representatives. After casting his vote for Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) for Speaker of the House, Serrano headed up to Albany, where he will witness his son, José M. Serrano, sworn in as a State Senator tomorrow. “This is quite a day, and I am proud to be here to once again reaffirm my commitment to the people of the Bronx,” said Congressman Serrano. “I am so honored that they have returned me to Congress, and I am determined to defend their interests here, fighting to make sure that our government does not give up its responsibility to help our country’s neediest people. With budget cuts on the horizon, many vital social, security, and transportation programs in New York hang in the balance, and I will fight with all my strength, working with like-minded Democrats and Republicans, to make sure that our city does not get shortchanged. It would be unconscionable if critical programs that help our communities are cut in order to fund the war in and tax cuts for the wealthy. “I will also continue to speak out and push for our government to lead a more sensible and respectful foreign policy, one that remembers that we should be a humane superpower. I will continue to push for an end to this awful war in and for a deeper national commitment to environmental and social justice. The millions and millions of Americans who voted for Democrats deserve leaders who will stand up and fight for progressive values.” Serrano marks 31 years in public life in 2005, and this year becomes the longest serving public official in Bronx history. First elected to the State Assembly in 1974, he was elected in a special mid-term election to Congress in 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the exclusive Appropriations Committee, serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce Department, Justice Department, State Department, the federal Judiciary, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), the Census Bureau, and the Small Business Administration (SBA), and other agencies, and is the third-ranking Democrat on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Today, Congressman Serrano also introduced several pieces of legislation on the House floor: The English Plus Resolution, a resolution that encourages all Americans to strengthen their skills in the English language and to promote the use of other languages in our society; A Constitutional amendment to remove the limit on the number of terms one may serve as President; A resolution to permit members of the House of Representatives to donate used computer equipment to public elementary and secondary schools; An amendment to provide a tax credit for businesses using clean-fuel vehicles within areas designated as “nonattainment areas” under the Clean Air Act; An amendment to ensure that consumers receive notification regarding food products produced from crops, livestock, or poultry raised on land on which sewage sludge was applied; A bill to lift the trade embargo on ; The Baseball Diplomacy Act, which would waive certain prohibitions with respect to Cuban nationals coming to the to play organized professional baseball; An amendment allowing taxpayers to contribute directly to the Untied States Library Trust Fund as a direct check-off on their tax form; A bill to provide for identification and health testing of members of the Armed Forces exposed to depleted uranium during their military service; Legislation to extend a fresh fruit and vegetable pilot program to Head Start and child care organizations; and Legislation to make permanent and fully-fund the audit program for the Child and Adult Food Care Program. # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York, in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments. This year, Congressman Serrano celebrates 31 years in public office.
12.29.2004	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 29, 2004 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Expresses Sadness at the Tragedy in Asia and Asks for a Generous Administration Response Washington, DC, December 29, 2004—Today Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent the following letter to Secretary Colin Powell in response to the worsening crisis in South and South East Asia. The text of the letter follows: December 29, 2004 The Honorable Colin L. Powell Secretary of State Department of State 2201 C Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Powell: Today’s New York Times is reporting a tragic increase in the death toll from the earthquake and tsunami to a figure of over 70,000 and it is expected to continue rising. This is a tragedy that affects all nations and each of us personally. I know that the Administration has made a commitment to provide assistance. However, I would like to request that, as the scope of this disaster becomes clearer, the contributions of the rise in keeping with the rising numbers of dead and displaced people. This is a time for our nation to show real leadership. We have an obligation to be generous as we work on behalf of humanitarian goals and try to prevent the disease and hunger that will confront the impacted nations. You can be sure that as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will work closely with this Administration and be supportive of all efforts to provide substantial amounts of assistance. Thank you for addressing this tragedy with speed and generosity. Sincerely, José E. Serrano Member of Congress # # # Congressman José E. Serrano has represented the Bronx, New York, in Congress since 1990. He is the only Member of Congress from New York City on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce, Justice, and State Departments.
12.22.2004	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 22, 2004 Contact: Ben Allen (202) 225-4361 Serrano Praises “Gold Train” Settlement Washington, DC, December 22, 2004—Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY) hailed the recent decision by the government to settle a lawsuit with tens of thousands of Hungarian Holocaust survivors over a trainload of gold, jewelry, and other property seized by the US Army at the end of World War II. “I’m so happy that the government has finally come to its senses and is offering some restitution to the Holocaust survivors and their heirs whose property was stolen, first by the Nazis and then by US officers,” said Serrano. “I’m glad that Congress was able to play a role in pushing the Justice Department to do the right thing.” The Hungarian “Gold Train” was loaded up with loot stolen by the Nazis from Hungarian Holocaust victims. The train was seized by US Army officers after the war and its contents were taken and used to furnish homes and offices, sold in army commissaries or kept by US military personnel as trinkets. This settlement ends several months of contentious negotiation between the survivors and the Department of Justice, which had initially tried to have the case thrown out of court. Congressman Serrano, the ranking Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Justice Department, was able to insert the following language into the conference report that accompanied the omnibus appropriations bill that passed Congress late last month: “The conferees are aware that the parties to Irvin Rosner, et al., v. have agreed to mediation and to the selection of a mediator. Given that this case involves elderly Holocaust survivors, the conferees believe that the Department of Justice should proceed with this mediation in a compassionate and expeditious manner in order to reach a fair resolution.” The addition of this report language came after a hearing of the CJS Subcommittee in which Congressman Serrano asked Deputy Attorney General James Comey tough questions about the Justice Department’s handling of the case. Soon afterwards, Serrano was praised in a letter from a representative of the Holocaust survivors who wrote that: “The elderly survivors who lost their property to the Hungarian Nazis, only to emigrate here, and then learn that their own government has lied to them and knowingly held their property, have struggled for years without much hope of justice from our government. Your questions [at the hearing] were, as far as we know, the first asked at any congressional hearing on their behalf. We will do our best to let the Holocaust survivors–and the Jewish community generally–know of your leadership on this issue. Again, on behalf of the survivors, we appreciate your support and leadership.” “I am glad that the Justice Department finally heeded our committee’s call,” said Serrano. “As a result, the survivors of the Holocaust in finally have some justice.” A link to Serrano’s July 22, 2004 floor statement in the Congressional Record on the Gold Train can be found here: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getpage.cgi?position=all&page=E1510&dbname=2004_record.
