11.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, in a letter to House and Senate leaders, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) requests that their respective Appropriations Committees fund the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) at a total of $500 million next year. Rep. Guinta co-founded and chairs the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, including over 80 Republicans and Democrat members, and shepherded CARA through Congress. In April, he spoke at the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta at House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers’ invitation. Rep. Rogers (KY-05) supports $500 million for CARA, containing Rep. Guinta’s measure to improve long-term recovery programs and others to improve addiction prevention, treatment and recovery. “Now, more than ever, is the time to show the American people that Congress is committed to providing families and communities with necessary resources to respond to addiction and prevent further loss of life,” writes Rep. Guinta to Representatives Rogers and Nita Lowey (NY-08), ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, as well as Senators Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) in the Senate. “Only through a comprehensive response, which includes prevention, treatment, recovery support and law enforcement, can we reverse current trends and provide individuals and families impacted by addiction with the services they need.” Rep. Guinta’s letter is linked below. He worked closely with Addiction Policy Forum and national advocacy groups to urge passage of CARA, which includes his Good Samaritan Assessment Act, protecting first responders who administer emergency treatment from civil liability laws. The heroin problem is especially bad in Rep. Guinta’s home state of New Hampshire, where the per-capita rate of overdose deaths ranked third in the country in 2014. Rep. Frank Guinta CARA Letter.pdf ###
10.06.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – Portsmouth Naval Shipyard’s new Commander, Captain David S. Hunt, received a visit today from Congressman Frank Guinta, who toured the submarine repair and modernization facility, employing almost 6,000 in New Hampshire’s First District. In June, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) voted for the Department of Defense Appropriations of Act that prevented another round of Base Realignment and Closure, which could impact the shipyard. He voted for a military construction bill that includes funding for infrastructure upgrades at the New Hampshire landmark. Captain Hunt took charge this summer. "Congratulations to the new Commander on the Seacoast. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is a high-skilled jobs generator, carrying on New Hampshire’s long maritime tradition. In Congress, jobs and growth in the area, where future generations should have the same opportunity to pursue nautical careers, is a major focus of mine,” said Rep. Guinta. The Congressman successfully pushed for approval of improvements to Portsmouth Harbor in recent legislation. Next year, most likely, the Army Corps of Engineers will receive funding to dredge the harbor to accommodate larger cargo vessels. He has championed other legislation to protect New Hampshire’s fishing industry from federal fees and unfair foreign competition. Capt. Hunt is a Massachusetts Institute of Technology engineering graduate, who earned the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Meritorious Service Medal and more. Also on the Congressman’s itinerary today is a visit to Granite State Manufacturing, a defense contractor in Manchester that manufactures precision equipment for the Virginia-Class submarine and Littoral Combat Ship. ###
09.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement after the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres early this morning: “He was one of Israel’s Founding Fathers, a visionary who escaped religious persecution to help Jewish people create a state in their homeland. Shimon Peres worked his entire life to keep Israel safe and make peace with its neighbors, winning a Nobel Prize for his efforts. For decades, he was an invaluable partner to Americans who share the same ideals. His invincible optimism and legacy of public service will continue to be an inspiration.” Peres served as Israeli Prime Minister and President, as well as Minister of Defense, Foreign Affairs, Finance and Transportation. He is famous for his role in the Oslo Peace Accords, a plan for Palestinian self-government that won him the Nobel Peace Prize in 1994. In the 114th Congress, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) has voted to honor Holocaust victims, express concern for rising anti-Semitism, and to strengthen U.S. military cooperation with Israel. ###
09.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At a House Financial Services Committee hearing today, Congressman Frank Guinta grilled Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf about fraudulent accounts bank employees created to meet sales quotas and earn rewards. At least two million fraudulent accounts generated excessive fees and ruined customers’ credit scores. Rep. Guinta focused on Stumpf’s reversal of his position that he would retain his pay, despite presiding over the scandal. More recently, Stumpf decided to forfeit his 2016 salary and $41 million of stock awards. “There are a number of inconsistencies,” Rep Guinta pointed out. “You said you did not want to prejudice the compensation committee ...but four days later you reversed course.” “Why wasn’t that important at the time?” asked Rep. Guinta. Stumpf was also unable to answer how many federal employees, whose job is preventing fraud, were embedded at Wells Fargo. Afterwards, the Congressman immediately directed a letter to Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Rob Cordray, demanding to know how regulators stationed at the bank could have missed systemic fraud. The letter is available here. Although oversight personnel existed at Wells Fargo for years, it was the Los Angeles Times that first broke the story of abuse since 2011. The West Coast bank has fired approximately 5,300 employees for opening false email accounts, deposit accounts and more. Last week, the CFPB announced a fine of $100 million, its largest ever. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), another federal agency, and City of Los Angeles also settled suits against Wells Fargo, which admitted no wrongdoing but committed to new sales practices. ###
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A project to improve Portsmouth Harbor received long-awaited authorization in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016, which passed the House of Representatives yesterday. Congressman Frank Guinta, who for years has supported dredging the harbor, as part of the Army Corps of Engineers’ Portsmouth Harbor and Piscataqua River Navigation Improvement Project, voted for the infrastructure bill. “Portsmouth Harbor is an economic resource immensely important to Granite Staters. This project will allow bigger commercial vessels to access the port, raise New Hampshire’s profile, and create more employment and business opportunities.” “A number of harbors around the country compete for limited funding. It took much effort and cooperation to finally authorize financing for Portsmouth, as well as for other locations in the U.S. in need of repair, in order to compete in the global economy.” Rep. Guinta has made economic development on the Seacoast, focusing on its maritime tradition, a priority. In addition to bills to prevent new federal fees harming New Hampshire’s few remaining fishermen, typically small family businesses, he has introduced or cosponsored others to increase local control over fisheries and punish unfair foreign trade practices. He successfully blocked closure of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, a jobs generator on the Seacoast that dates to colonial times and repairs advanced submarines. Elsewhere in the First District, Rep. Guinta has worked to secure funding for infrastructure projects at Eastern Slopes Airport, serving the Conway region, and along Interstate 93, a main artery through New Hampshire. “Interstate infrastructure is clearly a federal responsibility, one I strive to balance with environmental concerns, as recreation in our state provides thousand of jobs, and valuable economic activity every year. I’m proud the Portsmouth component of WRDA would protect coastal communities from erosion, as well,” said Rep. Guinta. In the 114th Congress, Manchester’s former mayor helped to secure funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which protects the White Mountains and Great Bay, among other destinations. ###
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Janet Yellen faced a question from Congressman Frank Guinta today that should have been easy for the Federal Reserve Chair, who testified to the strength of the U.S. economy but could not identify the Labor Force Participation Rate, a key economic indicator, which currently sits at an historically low level. A smaller portion of Americans are working than at any time since the 1970’s, mostly due to poor economic growth. Average economic growth under the Obama Administration is also historically low. Rep. Guinta (NH-01), a member of the Financial Services Committee, waited for almost a minute, while the Chair checked her notes for a figure that should have immediately leapt to mind, as the Federal Reserve relies partly on the LFPR to gauge the economy and set interest rates. The Financial Services Committee was investigating the Fed’s possible political motivations for maintaining low interest rates. A near-zero rate may be driving up the stock market, as well as income inequality, while encouraging government debt and harming small, middle-class savers. “Can you tell me … what the labor participation rate is right now?” asked Rep. Guinta. “Um, no. Let me just...” responded Yellen as she flipped through a binder, settling on the weak number of 62.8 percent. Job growth this year has been lower than last, and the LFPR has been stagnant for months, creating a conundrum for Chair Yellen, explained Rep. Guinta afterwards. “At the same time, she appears to be touting our economic vitality, which middle-class Americans simply do not believe, while the Chair is also arguing that economic weakness, closer to the truth, necessitates near-zero rates,” he said. “Confusion at the Fed is a big reason why Granite Staters have little faith in central planners’ ability to direct the economy from Washington.” The Congressman is a member of the Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade. He supports more a transparent Federal Reserve, including a public audit of the central bank. ###
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC) has awarded Congressman Frank Guinta its 2016 AMAC Award, one of only two awards the organization's 1.3 million members present annually to members of Congress whose work to protect Social Security and Medicare stands out. AMAC President and CEO Dan Weber presented Rep. Guinta (NH-01) the honor last night at a capital reception, where nearly 200 guests attended the ceremony, also featuring Rep. Joe Heck (NV-03). President Weber thanked Rep. Guinta for his contributions to older Americans' health and retirement. “Few members of Congress are as quick to fix a crisis as Congressman Guinta,” he said. “When he heard there would be no cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for seniors this year, he immediately introduced H.R. 4140 to get seniors a bump in benefits – while eliminating fraud, waste, and abuse in the government to pay for it. For championing seniors, and preserving Social Security now and for future generations, AMAC is pleased to recognize Congressman Guinta for his tireless work.” "New Hampshire seniors are some of the most patriotic citizens I know," said Rep. Guinta. "Many are U.S. military veterans. They deserve our thanks and commitment to protect the health and retirement benefits this country promised them. But Social Security and Medicare face insolvency. I'm honored to receive AMAC's award, recognizing my work to help Granite Staters and Americans secure their health and retirement. "My bipartisan SENIORS Act would cut wasteful federal spending to grant them, including veterans, the cost-of-living increase they deserve. Thank you to Dan Weber, AMAC members and my fellow honoree Congressman Joe Heck for all they do." For just the third time in 40 years, the Social Security Administration declined to grant seniors' a COLA in 2016. Rep. Guinta introduced the bipartisan SENIORS Act (H.R. 4140), which cuts billions of dollars of federal waste to provide a COLA. The bill applies to veterans benefits, as well. In the 114th Congress, Rep. Guinta voted for the Older Americans Act to reform outdated federal meal assistance and employment programs for seniors. The bill also strengthens programs to prevent elder abuse. To protect Social Security and Medicare from insolvency, Rep. Guinta has voted against a number of spending bills adding to the national debt, including Obamacare, which cut Medicare funding.
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) today addressed a gathering of the National Association of Federal Credit Unions in the nation’s capital, speaking to members about the importance of community financial institutions to the country’s economy, specifically home, business and auto lending. He spoke about credit unions’ role in his own life. Manchester, New Hampshire’s largest city, where Rep. Guinta served as mayor, is home to the country’s first credit union. St. Mary’s Bank is a special institution for the Guinta Family, Rep. Guinta, who currently represents the region in Congress, told NAFCU members. To buy a home and start a family, he relied on local lenders at St. Mary’s, a non-profit cooperative that pools community resources. His constituents depend on credit unions to pursue the American Dream, he said. “You’re helping to build our state and country, a crucial job that some in Congress misunderstand and demonize,” said Rep. Guinta, singling out Senator Elizabeth Warren’s support for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an independent agency increasing Washington’s control over credit markets. “I believe in you,” he told the audience to applause. “More than any Washington regulator, credit unions have a stake in their essential function and ability to serve customers, including middle-class families and business owners in New Hampshire. We have personal relationships the federal bureaucracy could never replicate. ” Small financial institutions unable to cope with heavy regulations are consolidating or disappearing, leaving Granite Staters with fewer credit options, limiting economic opportunities. Home ownership and entrepreneurial activity are at generational lows, in part because of CFBP control, a product of 2010’s Dodd-Frank financial reform. Rep. Guinta, leading 30 members of Congress in a letter to the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), successfully urged the Chairman to lengthen credit unions’ 12-month examination cycle. The Congressman introduced legislation to ensure the NCUA effectuates the change, an 18-month cycle for credit unions in good financial standing, which would reduce compliance costs, while maintaining the institutions’ soundness. “We thank Congressman Guinta for his leadership and recognition of the need for regulatory relief for credit unions that will allow them to better serve their nearly 105 million members,” said NAFCU President and CEO Dan Berger. “We appreciate his ongoing efforts as a champion for an extended examination cycle for well-run credit unions." Rep. Guinta’s bill also became part of the Financial CHOICE Act, which the Financial Services Committee approved last week. ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading advocate for small businesses, yesterday awarded Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) with its biennial Guardian of Small Business Award for his outstanding support of America’s small business owners in the 114th Congress. “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Rep. Guinta is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” On the Financial Services Committee, Rep. Guinta is a member of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, overseeing auto, home and small business lending, as well as efforts to improve entrepreneurs’ access to venture capital. His bill to improve community financial institutions’ ability to serve customers in New Hampshire, and his bill to prevent a federal auto-loan rate hike are components of the Financial CHOICE Act. The legislative package in the House of Representatives would help to reverse the trend of shrinking small business births, said Rep. Guinta, thanking the NFIB for the Guardian Award. “Ninety-six percent of businesses in the Granite State are small businesses, struggling to cope with the Obama Administration’s record pages of federal regulations, everything from Obamacare to Dodd-Frank and illegal EPA actions,” said Rep. Guinta. “New Hampshire families, small business owners and I are working together to repeal top-down policies that harm both them and their customers.” The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. Rep. Guinta received a perfect 100 percent score during the 114th Congress. “NFIB is honored to present Rep. Guinta with this award,” said Duggan. ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta, who introduced similar legislation with military veteran Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, voted today for the Veterans Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act to reform disciplinary procedures at the Department of Veterans Affairs. In 2014, CNN broke the story of widespread abuse at the agency, where executives and employees manipulated patient data to hide long wait times for veterans seeking health care. “The federal bureaucracy is more interested in protecting jobs and benefits for underperforming employees, even convicted criminals, than delivering service to American heroes who laid their lives on the line for this country,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “There are good workers at the VA, but a corrupt system perpetuates the scandal.” A CNN study showed that over 300,000 veterans may have died before receiving appointments. A Senate investigation directly linked nearly 1,000 deaths to long wait times, while VA employees received superior reviews and performance bonuses. “We owe our veterans our gratitude, as well as determination to clean up rules that trap them in bureaucratic purgatory,” said Guinta. Congress quickly passed the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, providing funding for more doctors, staff and facilities, also allowing veterans to seek private health care options. Additionally, the legislation authorized the VA Secretary to fire or demote senior executives, who may have directed the manipulation. However, the VA bureaucracy, which enjoys the protection of arcane civil service rules, has resisted reform. According to the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, whose Chairman authored today’s legislation, the VA has fired only 10 employees guilty of misconduct. Wait lists have grown, but the agency is wasting hundreds of millions of dollars on construction cost overruns. Like Rep. Guinta’s bipartisan bill, the Veterans Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act would allow the VA Secretary to fire or demote negligent or underperforming employees more easily. It would allow the Secretary to recoup improper bonuses and reduce executives’ pensions in certain cases. The Obama Administration has been fighting such reforms, including the Veterans Choice Card program, which allows veterans to seek private care. This Congress, Rep. Guinta introduced a bill with Rep. Annie Kuster (NH-02) to prevent the President from defunding the Choice program. He introduced another to remove time and distance restrictions. His home state of New Hampshire lacks a full-service VA facility, often requiring vets to visit out-of-state facilities in Vermont and Massachusetts. An Inspector General report indicated problems at the White River Junction facility in Vermont. “Problems at the VA are ingrained and will take a concerted effort to fix, as well as a President willing to make the changes that our current one promised,” said Rep. Guinta. ###
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) issued the following statement before tomorrow's 15th anniversary of the September 11th attacks: “Brave Granite Staters, members of the New Hampshire National Guard, are right now deployed in foreign conflict zones, fighting terrorists abroad to prevent another attack like the one we experienced fifteen years ago. September 11th is a day to honor their service and sacrifice, as well as all those who lost their lives in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. More recent events in Chattanooga, San Bernardino and Orlando are stark reminders of persistent Islamic terrorism that requires greater resolve, clearer purpose and stronger action. We must never forget.” Rep. Guinta attended the dedication of a new Global War on Terror Memorial at the New Hampshire Veterans Cemetery in May. Tomorrow, he will revisit the site in Boscawen to pay his respects, after participating in the 9/11 Memorial Stair Climb in Manchester, where teams will re-enact the climb of firefighters who lost their lives at the World Trade Center. ###
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At a House Financial Services Committee hearing – investigating the Obama Administration’s $400 million cash payment to Iran in exchange for hostages – Rep. Frank Guinta picked apart excuses from a Democrat witness defending the ransom payment, which the President denied. However, the State Department later contradicted the claim, as well as the Department’s own previous claims, admitting the cash payment in foreign currency was directly tied to the release of American prisoners in January. The Democrat witness, Suzanne Maloney of the Brookings Institution, Deputy Director of its Foreign Policy program, repeated the State Department’s justification that the United States owed Iran the money, due to a decades-long dispute. Rep. Guinta noted the disparity between Maloney’s various statements, as well as between the Administration’s and its actions. “You’re telling me that, after 35 years of negotiations, this is the moment that [Secretary of State} John Kerry and President Obama decide to settle the dispute?” he asked. “I’ve heard their excuses. I’ve heard their rationale. I just don’t believe it, nor do the American people." Maloney admitted the “the timing of the release of the prisoners was coordinated with the timing of the resolution of this long-held financial dispute... It did in this case clearly pay off.” But after receiving the cash incentive, Iran took more Americans hostage, and the U.S. government warned of the likelihood of more incidents to follow. Rep. Guinta also questioned the true amount of the ransom, a scandal the Wall Street Journal revealed last month. The newspaper reports that Iran received a total of $1.7 billion. “I believe what I read in the media consistently,” said Maloney, an expert witness. Further reporting indicates the amount paid to the Islamic Republic, while President Obama negotiated a nuclear deal with the regime, could be as high as $33.6 billion in cash and gold. According to the Washington Free Beacon, the Foundation for Defense of Democracies estimates that the United States released $700 million per month between January 2014 and July 2015 to the major terror sponsor. At a press conference, the President complained that U.S. sanctions prevented him from wiring the money. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Justice Department has been funneling settlement money, as a result of federal lawsuits, to left-wing activist organizations, such as La Raza and ACORN, avoiding Congressional scrutiny to pursue the Administration’s political agenda. Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) voted yesterday for the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act to stop the abuse of executive power and mandate that only legal plaintiffs or the U.S. Treasury receive settlement funds. “The Department is diverting funds from legitimate victims to politically connected interest groups that support the President and his allies,” said Rep. Guinta. “It’s another example of this out-of-control Administration collecting and parceling out fees and penalties in the billions of dollars, blurring the Constitution’s separation of powers, while hurting the people it claims to be helping.” A House Judiciary Committee investigation revealed that, during a two-year period, the Justice Department siphoned as much as $880 million to partisan interest groups, which could divert the money to political purposes. The Wall Street Journal reports that the Justice Department began depositing a percentage of mortgage lender settlements in a discretionary account, after Congress reformed a similar program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Rep. Guinta is a member of the Financial Services Committee, which jointly conducted the investigation. “In many cases, the Administration allowed banks to pay third parties in lieu of victims. I’m working to create more open, transparent government that helps those who truly need our assistance.” ###
09.06.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – The Environmental Protection Agency’s “MS4” Permit could cost taxpayers in southern New Hampshire hundreds of thousands of dollars, even millions, over the next few years. Locations potentially subject to new fees and penalties include 62 from Manchester to Plaistow, Portsmouth and Rochester. At the Manchester Public Works next week, town managers, engineers and selectman representing affected municipalities will gather to discuss a coordinated response to the unfunded mandate, which the EPA introduced abruptly after avoiding public comment. Congressman Frank Guinta, who describes the problem here, will host the event next Wednesday: When: Wednesday, August 31, at 2:00 pm Where: MS4 COMMUNITIES TOWN HALL MEETING Manchester Public Works Building 475 Valley St. Manchester, NH 03103 The event is open to the media and will begin with a public presentation, followed by a question-and-answer session for town representatives. In a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy and the agency’s regional administrator, Rep. Guinta challenged the legality, science and expense of the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit. Last year, he introduced a bill to prevent expensive infrastructure upgrades on the Great Bay. “In Congress, I've championed efforts to improve the environment, such as my amendment to increase the Land and Water Conservation Fund that protects the Beebe River. We can also protect our economy and constitutional rights by driving back this latest power grab, threatening to destroy local budgets,” said Rep. Guinta, representing New Hampshire’s First District in Congress. ###
08.25.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – Anne Marie Zanfagna is an artist whose daughter Jackie succumbed to heroin addiction. After Jackie passed away in 2014, Anne Marie found it difficult to paint. Now, Anne Marie, from Plaistow, NH, has a new passion. She founded Angels of Addictions, a charity that raises awareness of New Hampshire’s biggest problem and its victims. Anne Marie paints portraits of Jackie and other Granite Staters who have lost their lives to drugs, portraying them at their most vibrant. Congressman Frank Guinta, Chairman of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, will host a showing of Anne Marie’s work at his Manchester office next Wednesday. At the impromptu gallery, the artist is scheduled to present an original work to another survivor of New Hampshire’s heroin crisis. In May, she visited Washington, D.C., to urge Congress to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, after Rep. Guinta led passage of a slate of House bills: ANGELS OF ADDICTION GALLERY SHOWING Office of Congressman Frank Guinta Wednesday, August 31, at 5:15 pm 33 Lowell Street Manchester, NH 03101 (603) 641-9536 * The event is open to the media. Street parking is available. Refreshments will be served. Press should RSVP to brendan.thomas@mail.house.gov ###
08.22.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) issued the following statement, after the State Department contradicted President Obama's claim that no ransom had been paid to Iran, in exchange for the release of American hostages: "What is clearly a ransom payment to terrorists underscores the Administration's dangerous approach to negotiations with the Ayatollah, the Taliban and more radical Islamists who want just one thing: 'Death to America.' Iran, understanding the President will bend over backwards to appease the regime, has already taken more hostages. Since the President helped pave the way to an Iranian nuclear weapon, the regime has test-fired ballistic missiles, threatened the U.S. and our allies, and expanded its influence across the Middle East. The White House also admitted its payments are probably funding the aggression. The President's denials compound the problem, demonstrating that we need new, serious leadership." The Wall Street Journal revealed suspicious timing of a $400 million payment to Iranian authorities, coinciding with a prisoner exchange in January. In a press conference, Obama said, "We have a policy that we don’t pay ransom. And the notion that we would somehow start now, in this high-profile way, and announce it to the world, even as we’re looking in the faces of other hostage families whose loved ones are being held hostage, and saying to them we don’t pay ransom, defies logic." A State Department spokesman later conceded the cash payment in foreign currency was contingent on the release of four hostages. In Congress, Rep. Guinta, a Financial Services Committee member, oversees economic sanctions on Iran. He voted against the Iranian nuclear deal and voted to restore sanctions, bar Iran from the U.S. financial system, and prevent U.S. assistance to its nuclear program. ###
07.25.2016	MANCHESTER, NH -- Congressman Frank Guinta, leader of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, issued the following statement, after President Obama signed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) -- including the Congressman's legislation to improve long-term recovery programs -- into law yesterday: "CARA is the product of years of hard work by Granite Staters like Melissa Crews, Doug Griffin and Abi Lizotte, as well as over 80 Republican and Democrat members of the Task Force, to reform federal addiction policy. In the midst of a nationwide heroin and opioid crisis, particularly affecting New Hampshire, we were able to speed major reforms through Congress to bring those suffering from drug abuse help -- and prevent others from turning to drugs in the first place. CARA is based on a modern understanding of addiction, a disease, and ensures federal funds will produce real results." Rep. Guinta founded the Bipartisan Task Force last year, introduced the STOP ABUSE Act, informing parts of CARA, and pushed for inclusion of over a dozen significant measures, such as those directing federal grants to long-term recovery programs and providing first responders with more tools to administer emergency treatment. Doug Griffin from Newton, New Hampshire, lost his daughter Courtney to an overdose. Melissa Crews, another Granite Stater, is founder of Hope for New Hampshire Recovery, a treatment center. Abi Lizotte, a former heroin user, teaches Granite State schoolchildren about the dangers of illegal drugs. Over the course of dozens of town halls, press conferences, briefings and personal meetings, Rep. Guinta has learned from them, in addition to medical professionals and law enforcement experts, how best to address the crisis, responsible for the death of one out every 3,000 New Hampshire residents last year. This week, Rep. Guinta hosted a safety and security conference in Concord, the state capital, where a U.S Customs and Border Protection official met with local police departments to coordinate counter-narcotics efforts. ###
07.22.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – At a police training facility today, departments from across New Hampshire gathered to learn from a U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer – representing the El Paso Intelligence Center, a criminal intelligence hub – how to utilize the federal law enforcement program. Located at Fort Bliss, Texas, an Army base, the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC) is a joint effort among federal agencies that include Customs and Border Protection, the Department of Homeland Security, Department of State and others. EPIC tracks transnational threats, including heroin and human trafficking across the Southwest border, where Rep Guinta visited in April to investigate Mexican drug cartels. Manchester’s former mayor, who worked closely with Manchester police, organized today’s event. “Even smaller departments, such as in Conway and Gilford, are on the front lines of the fight to stop drugs from reaching Granite State kids,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “Mothers and fathers, people of all demographics, are being exposed to cheap, deadly heroin, flooding New Hampshire. To provide law enforcement officers more tools to counteract gangs and drugs, I introduced them to EPIC.” The Congressman was impressed with the organization’s facilities during an on-site tour, he said. “Operators are on call 24-hours a day to facilitate investigations. Because New Hampshire is at the center of a nationwide epidemic, we have a lot of information to share with federal authorities,” said Rep. Guinta. The Chairman of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, he led passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which passed Congress last week. The major legislation reforms federal prevention, treatment and recovery programs. “Reducing supply and demand for heroin and opioids – addressing both sides of the equation – is necessary to solve the problem,” said Guinta. In addition to coordinating EPIC’s visit to the Arthur D. Kehas Criminal Justice Training Facility in Concord, he successfully introduced an amendment to restore funding to Joint Task Force North, a military operation at Ft. Bliss that supports border security. ###
07.15.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – The El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC), a federal criminal intelligence hub at Fort Bliss, Texas, where Congressman Frank Guinta visited in April, will join New Hampshire police departments at the Arthur D. Kehas Criminal Justice Training Facility in Concord next week to improve their ability to counter New Hampshire’s heroin problem. EPIC is a joint effort of federal law enforcement agencies, such as the Drug Enforcement Administration, Customs and Border Protection, and Department of Homeland Security, which collect and share threat intelligence nationwide. Intelligence centers on illegal human, drug and money smuggling across the U.S.-Mexico border, as well as collaboration between foreign and domestic gangs. “My trip to Fort Bliss produced a number of useful connections for New Hampshire police, on the front lines of our state’s heroin epidemic,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “Mexican cartels distribute almost all heroin entering the U.S. Complex criminal networks traffic drugs to New Hampshire along strategic routes through New England.” “EPIC, on the southern border, has advanced technological capabilities and can provide up-to-the-minute information to Granite State police, working to prevent gangs and drugs from reaching New Hampshire neighborhoods. They need more help.” This spring, the Congressman visited the border to investigate weaknesses and potential improvements, including a wall, better technology and changes to domestic law that would deter illegal immigration. Customs and Border Protection agents drew the link between illegal immigration and drug trafficking. Mexican cartels profit from both. Rep. Guinta is the Chairman of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, including over 80 Republican and Democrat members in Congress. Recently, he led passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, a House-Senate agreement to reform federal prevention, treatment and recovery programs, in light of a nationwide spike of overdose deaths. New Hampshire’s rate of heroin and opioid-related deaths ranks third in the country. “Our small state is at the center of an epidemic that claimed over 400 lives last year, a figure trending even higher this year,” said Rep. Guinta. “To save more lives, we must address supply and demand sides.” “Supply is overwhelmingly the product of sophisticated gangs that move heroin across national and state borders,” said Rep. Guinta. “EPIC has the capability to support New Hampshire police, up against a resourceful enemy with Granite State kids in their crosshairs.” Attending next Tuesday’s event will be police departments from across New Hampshire’s First District: from Manchester, Portsmouth, Hooksett, Exeter, Fremont, Alton, Stratham, Conway, Gilford, and Seabrook. More from the Second District, as well as Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-02), are scheduled to attend. The New Hampshire Department of Justice and State Police will send representatives. ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta issued the following statement, after voting for the Conscience Protection Act of 2016. Today’s House bill would prohibit public health programs that receive federal funding from penalizing conscientious objectors, who refuse to provide abortion services, such as insurance plans or procedures. “The abortion lobby opposes any restriction on abortion, including reasonable health and safety measures to protect the lives of mothers and their babies, who survive late-term procedures. That’s because for providers like Planned Parenthood, abortion is big business, thanks to $500 million of taxpayer money each year. In California, abortion coverage is mandatory. Obamacare subsidizes it in many states. At least one hospital forced an employee to participate in an abortion. One needn’t be a nun to understand that conscientious objectors deserve the First Amendment’s full protection. Religious discrimination is as wrong as any other.” In the 114th Congress, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) voted to stop federal funding to Planned Parenthood, pending a House investigation of videos showing executives negotiating the sale of fetal organs. He voted to repeal and replace Obamacare and to direct more funding to alternative women’s health centers. The Conscience Protection Act of 2016 passed the House by a vote of 245-182. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Frank Guinta and Annie Kuster, New Hampshire’s Republican and Democrat House members, respectively, are urging the Energy and Commerce Committee to consider the Accelerating the End of Breast Cancer Act (H.R. 1197). The two Granite Staters are co-sponsors of the legislation, which directs the President to establish a 10-person commission to oversee breast cancer research, including public-private partnerships to speed a cure. H.R. 1197 targets metastasis, an advanced stage of breast cancer, for special attention. The Committee must approve all legislation before it receives a full vote. Representatives Guinta and Kuster delivered their letter to its chairmen today. “My mother is a breast cancer survivor and my inspiration in Congress, where I’m looking for every opportunity to help prevent a disease that affects nearly one in eight women,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “Every year, there are about 250,000 new cases,” he said. “The good news is that number has been decreasing. The bad news is that, annually, there are tens of thousands of women who will die too soon. That’s why over 270 members, many whose sisters, daughters and wives have contracted breast cancer, support this bill. It would streamline federal research and include more private sector involvement.” “This bill takes important steps to put an end to breast cancer through increased research and investment in technologies that prevent and treat breast cancer effectively,” said Rep. Kuster (NH-02). “With breast cancer being the second-leading cause of death among women in the U.S., this issue is far too important to allow further delay. I urge Committee leadership to hold a vote and bring this bill to the House floor now." The New Hampshire members co-chair the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic and have introduced a number of bills together, including legislation to improve federal anti-addiction efforts and veterans healthcare. Read their letter to the House Energy and Commerce Committee here. ### Guinta-Kuster letter to Energy and Commerce.pdf
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – To restore legislative power to Granite Staters’ elected representatives, Congressman Frank Guinta voted today for the Separation of Powers Restoration Act, a bill that would overturn courts’ deference to administrative rules and regulations, as opposed to federal law on which they are based. “Federal agencies are writing law and ruling on it, a clear violation of the Constitution’s separation of powers, in which courts also have a vested interest,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “Courts, as well as Congress, have ceded their authority to federal agencies, a fourth branch of government denying Americans a host of rights: due process, protection from unreasonable search and seizure, a fair trial.” “This list goes on,” he said. “A unitary executive that is judge and jury is precisely what the Founders feared. I’m proud to vote for today’s bill, overturning two overly broad Supreme Court decisions that undermine representative democracy.” Specifically, SOPRA overturns the Chevron and Auer doctrines. In essence, the first allows agencies wide leeway to write rules and regulations unrelated to current statute, as long as Congress has not explicitly prohibited them. The second allows agencies to interpret their own rules and regulations to courts, creating a conflict of interest, explained Rep. Guinta. “Agencies have an incentive to write vague regulations, which they manipulate according to the whims of Washington bureaucrats, the biggest special interest of all,” said the Congressman, a co-sponsor of the Separation of Powers Restoration Act. In the 114th Congress, Rep. Guinta has argued against unlawful expansions of executive power at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Homeland Security, joining two amicus briefs to the Supreme Court. ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Each year, Congress must approve a cost-of-living increase for U.S. military veterans receiving federal benefits, a process that may delay payments. Congressman Frank Guinta voted yesterday for the Veterans Compensation COLA Act of 2016 to allow the Secretary of Veterans Affairs more discretion to make a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to benefits. New Hampshire has a larger proportion of veterans than most states. “They shouldn’t have to wait for Congress to pass a cost-of-living adjustment that could make the difference between three square meals and going hungry,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01), who introduced similar legislation last year. His bipartisan SENIORS Act, which the Congressman introduced with Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), would eliminate billions of dollars of federal waste to guarantee Social Security and veterans beneficiaries a cost-of-living increase. Yesterday’s bill from Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-05) passed on a voice vote in the House, signifying widespread bipartisan agreement. “The VA must reform in a number of areas to improve veterans’ healthcare,” said Rep. Guinta. “The Veterans Compensation COLA Act would also remove annual benefit increases from the slow process of legislation to speed delivery to vets in need of assistance.” Rep. Guinta previously introduced legislation to remove time and distance restrictions from the Veterans Choice Card program, as well as to prevent the President from defunding it. Congress expanded veterans’ choice of healthcare to include private providers, after whistleblowers exposed secret patient waiting lists at VA hospitals, which employees used to obscure missed deadlines and collect performance bonuses. ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01), leader of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, applauded final passage today of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, the product of a House and Senate agreement to improve addiction prevention, treatment and recovery programs. “By Washington standards, this was a rapid approach to the finish line,” said Manchester’s former mayor, who commended House Democrats for joining Republicans. “Districts around the country are suffering as a result of heroin, prescription opioids, and more dangerous fentanyl. Overdose deaths are outpacing last year’s figure in New Hampshire.” “Those numbers represent real people, sons and daughters, mothers and fathers, succumbing to drug abuse. They need our help now.” Rep. Guinta, who worked closely with House leadership to craft the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, expects the President to sign it quickly. It includes more than a dozen ideas from Task Force members that the Congressman ushered into today’s legislation: Measures to fund alternative drug courts for non-violent offenders; reform Veterans Administration prescription practices; increase access to anti-overdose medication; and expand prescription pill monitoring programs. The Congressman said his amendment to direct federal grant money to long-term recovery programs is an important addition. “Without long-term attention, many Granite Staters on their way to productive lives may stray from the path to full recovery. The amendment supports nonprofits like Hope on Haven Hill and Hope for New Hampshire Recovery that prevent relapse,” said Rep. Guinta, citing local charities. His Good Samaritan Assessment Act, a step towards protecting first responders from civil liability laws that interfere with emergency treatment, became part of the legislation. There are several provisions to strengthen law enforcement – those to disrupt trafficking in chemical components of fentanyl (a synthetic heroin) and strengthen investigations of international drug traffickers. This spring, Rep. Guinta visited the U.S.-Mexico border to investigate powerful cartels that ship most heroin into the United States, reaching as far as New Hampshire. Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed his amendment to restore funding to Joint Task Force North, a military operation that supports counter-narcotics efforts at the southern border. “To win, we must address this epidemic from both the supply and demand sides,” he explained. “I’m grateful for the work of over 80 members of the Task Force, especially to brave Granite Staters, telling their stories of addiction and recovery. Their personal struggles created a public outcry and momentum behind today’s 407-5 vote.” ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed a package of bills signaling bipartisan opposition to Obamacare, the President’s signature healthcare law that upended private health insurance and raised healthcare costs, said Rep. Frank Guinta (NH-01). Manchester’s former mayor, who voted to repeal and replace Obamacare – and succeeded in delaying a 40-percent tax on employee health benefits, which New Hampshire employers said would harm hiring and wages – voted for the legislation, the Restoring Access to Medication Act of 2015, yesterday. Specifically, it lifts Obamacare restrictions on purchasing over-the-counter prescriptions using a health savings account (HSA), increases HSA contribution limits, and expands allowable expenses. HSAs are tax-exempt saving accounts for medical purposes that supplement high-deductible health insurance plans. “In order to pay for high deductibles under Obamacare, middle- and working-class Granite Staters are turning to HSAs out of necessity. To force participation in a bad healthcare plan, however, the Administration is denying people struggling to make ends meet a sensible alternative,” said Rep. Guinta. “We’re helping to return some flexibility to their lives.” Extensive research shows high-deductible plans and deductible amounts on the rise, as Obamacare forces heathcare rationing. From 2009 to 2014, Americans’ health insurance premium costs rose by an average of 28 percent, estimates one free-market advocacy group, and insurance experts are predicting more double-digit increases this year. The Restoring Access to Medication Act also requires that the federal government recoup improper Obamacare subsidies. A Senate report revealed that subsidies to Obamacare enrollees later deemed ineligible for coverage amounted to $750 million last year. “It’s remarkable that Democrats are starting to understand Obamacare’s harm to their constituents, as Republicans have been saying, and these provisions passed on suspension,” said Rep. Guinta. The House sometimes suspends procedural rules to pass non-controversial legislation. “In this case, some of my colleagues on the other side of aisle have even come to the conclusion that improper subsidies to individuals of uncertain immigration status harm American citizens who need our assistance most.” In 2009, President Obama promised his healthcare reform would deny benefits to illegal aliens, a promise the Senate proved false. ###
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01), a co-sponsor of the legislation, voted today for the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. For the first time, the bill would evaluate federal mental health programs’ effectiveness, eliminate many overlapping and outdated programs to focus resources, and increase congressional oversight of state grants. The bill overcomes legal hurdles to patient care, allowing parents and caregivers to act as representatives to those in need of treatment, as well as ensuring those individuals maintain treatment regimens. “Federal mental health programs are a patchwork of antiquated programs across agencies. Jails have become de facto mental health facilities,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor, who during his two terms made mental health and homelessness a focus of his administration. “As a caregiver to a family member with a mental health issue, I know how difficult finding proper treatment can be,” he said. “Also, the country is experiencing an epidemic of drug abuse, closely related to mental health disorders. It’s time we recognize these problems for what they are: diseases creating a public health emergency.” Last year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that the death rate in the United States – the number of deaths per 100,000 people – rose for the first time in a decade, due to drug overdoses and suicide. Rep. Guinta is a frequent speaker at National Alliance on Mental Illness events, hosted a Mental Health Summit with New Hampshire experts in Concord, and founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, which includes over 80 members of Congress. He led passage of 16 bills in the Opioid Abuse Reduction Act, scheduled for a vote this month, and praised today’s result: “A House investigation revealed that 40 percent of Americans with serious mental illness are not receiving treatment. Untreated, their conditions can lead to violence, as we saw in Newtown, Tucson and Aurora,” said the Congressman. “By removing legal and bureaucratic barriers, and directing federal dollars to the most effective programs, we can help families and doctors intervene in many cases to saves lives.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act also creates a nationwide leadership position at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, expands mental health training for law enforcement officers, increases access to in-patient psychiatric services, and advances tele-psychiatry in rural areas. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Financial Services Committee has released details of its Financial CHOICE Act, a package of bills to overturn 2010’s Dodd-Frank financial reform that has hamstrung the U.S. economy, said Rep. Guinta, whose Credit Union Examination Reform Act and Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act are features of the major legislation. Rep. Guinta (NH-01), a member of the Financial Services Committee – and its Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade – thanked Chairman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) for his leadership of financial reform. “Persistently poor job and economic growth demonstrates the need to free credit and capital for millions of Americans who have put their dreams of home or business ownership on hold for years, waiting for a recovery that never comes,” said Rep. Guinta. “Centralized decision-making in Washington benefits bureaucrats and Wall Street insiders, as opposed to the Granite State middle class,” he said. “To get the economy moving again, we must return power to the true experts: Granite Staters who work hard, save, and invest in the future. Community financial institutions and local auto dealers can help, if we remove federal interference.” As Manchester’s former mayor, he cut taxes for the first time in a decade and balanced the city budget. Rep. Guinta, also a member of the House Budget Committee, explained that his Credit Union Examination Reform Act would allow New Hampshire’s credit unions, subject to a laborious 12-month examination cycle, to focus resources on customers. His credit union bill would lengthen the examination cycle by six months, providing regulatory relief for community financial institutions, while saving taxpayer money. Last year, the Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act passed the House of Representatives by a large, bipartisan margin. Rep. Guinta introduced the legislation to ensure the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a Dodd-Frank entity operating largely independently from Congress, or even the executive branch, does not raise consumer auto loan rates. His auto loan bill would rescind CFPB findings, based on unscientific data, that dealer financial discretion disproportionately harms minorities. “In fact, the CFPB’s guidance will raise auto loan rates for everyone, disproportionately affecting those least able to afford higher costs,” said Rep. Guinta, who estimated that rate hikes could add an extra $586 to the average car loan. A House Financial Services Committee report showed that the CFPB, lacking precise data, mistakenly paid sums to many white borrowers, after collecting large settlements from auto lenders. The agency may have illegally coordinated its activities with other agencies to pressure auto lenders to settle with the federal government, as well as hoarded settlement money. The Financial CHOICE Act, in addition to Rep. Guinta’s legislation, includes measures to end “too big to fail” regulations requiring taxpayers to rescue overleveraged banks, replacing them with orderly bankruptcy rules. The Financial CHOICE Act increases transparency at the Federal Reserve, whose unpredictability contributes to market volatility. The legislative package increases penalties for financial fraud. “If we want strong economic growth and more freedom, we must empower Americans, not Washington bureaucrats,” said Chairman Hensarling. “We must offer all Americans greater opportunities to raise their standard of living and achieve financial independence. In a phrase, we need economic growth for all and bank bailouts for none. This is the foundation of the Republican plan to reignite growth by replacing Dodd-Frank with real reforms that work.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill that passed the House of Representatives today includes funding for the Global War on Terror, as well as to upgrade equipment at National Guard locations throughout New Hampshire. “National defense is the first priority of the federal government. In the Constitution, it’s the clearest duty of the President and Congress. And security starts with making sure our soldiers are well equipped. I’m proud any time I can help New Hampshire National Guard members prepare for their very difficult jobs,” said Rep. Guinta, who recently attended a ceremony for Granite Staters deploying to fight in the Middle East. “What our troops need most of all, however, is stronger leadership from this Commander-in-Chief. Putting their lives on the line to fight ISIS and Taliban, they need a morale boost, in addition to the best tools.” Specifically, Army National Guard locations in Hooksett and Rochester would receive funding for vehicle repairs, as would the Air National Guard at Pease Air Force Base in Portsmouth. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard would receive funding for improvements. Additionally, the appropriations bill directs funding to the Department of Veterans Affairs to address a backlog of more than 366,000 veterans’ health care claims. In 2014, whistleblowers at several VA hospitals revealed that employees manipulated patient wait list data to collect performance bonuses. Over a 10-year period, more than 300,000 vets may have died before receiving medical appointments. Congress passed the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act to provide more doctors, staff and VA treatment centers, and to expand vets’ private health care options. Rep. Guinta (NH-01) previously introduced legislation to eliminate restrictions on veterans’ access to private care and bonuses to senior VA executives who fail to meet reasonable performance goals, as required by law. He has voted for measures to require quarterly progress reports from VA officials, rapid response teams to fix problems, and tighter cost controls of VA construction projects. “We must fulfill our promise to the brave men and women who fought for our country. That means ensuring the VA operates efficiently and effectively, directing its resources to vets, not comfortable bureaucrats,” said Rep. Guinta. Today’s bill also provides funding for more veterans’ health care facilities, fertility treatments and adoption services for injured veterans, and funding for international efforts to control the Zika virus, in particular vaccine research at the National Institutes of Health. A measure prevents the Obama Administration from directing any funds to closure of the Guantanamo Bay military prison in Cuba. ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Supreme Court ruled 4-4 today that 26 states have standing to sue the Obama Administration over executive orders to shield as many as 5 million illegal immigrants from deportation and grant them work permits and other public benefits. The ruling enforces a lower court’s decision that halted the President’s amnesty program. In March, Congressman Frank Guinta joined an unprecedented amicus brief from the House of Representatives, urging the Supreme Court to uphold Congress’ authority to make law. He issued the following statement after today’s split decision, which he called “a great victory for Granite Staters and the rule of law”: “The Courts, Congress, and the American people have a vested interest in the President’s responsibility to respect the Constitution’s separation of powers and federal law that requires him to submit for public review major rule changes. There is perhaps no bigger question before us than who enters this country and how. To President Obama, the Supreme Court has made clear, that question became an afterthought to politics of division and distraction. “As a result of his amnesty, states including New Hampshire will be subject to massive cost increases. Illegal immigration and heroin trafficking will increase. Now that Texas and other states have legal standing to sue, we must hope the next President will appoint a conservative justice who will finally put an end to this abuse of power.” Today’s ruling means that the Department of Homeland Security’s amnesty program remains suspended, while federal courts consider the underlying merits of United States v. Texas. During a visit to the United States border with Mexico, Rep. Guinta learned from U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents about the connection between the President’s immigration policies and New Hampshire’s heroin epidemic. Rep. Guinta (NH-01) successfully introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act restoring funding to Joint Task Force North, a military operation at Fort Bliss, Texas, that supports Custom and Border Protection’s counter-narcotics efforts. The Drug Enforcement Administration reports that Mexican cartels produce or distribute nearly all heroin in the U.S. ###
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta, a House Financial Services Committee member, demanded that Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen answer for the continuing slow economic recovery at a Capitol Hill hearing today. He said the Federal Reserve’s indecision and unpredictability are contributing to “market volatility, which weakens the effectiveness of markets and economic opportunities for all Americans.” Rep. Guinta (NH-01) requested more transparency, clearer rules based on public input and congressional approval, for instance. Yellen argued that more public input “wouldn’t add anything to the process” of annual bank stress tests. A component of 2010’s Dodd-Frank financial reform, stress tests require banks to spend millions of dollars on regulations that change every year, creating a competitive disadvantage for smaller banks. According to the Richmond Fed, stress tests and other federal regulations have caused the number of small banks, mostly community financial institutions, to shrink, while the largest banks have grown even larger. As a result, local credit markets, supporting home and auto loans, as well as new business formation, have shrunk dramatically. Last month, the Labor Department reported only 38,000 jobs created. The Commerce Department reported only 0.8 percent GDP growth in the first quarter of 2016. GDP during the Obama Administration has averaged just 1.55 percent over seven years – the fourth lowest of any administration. Rep. Guinta also questioned the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) budget. Unlike most federal agencies, the CFPB is an independent agency, which draws funding directly from the Federal Reserve, as opposed to Congressional appropriations. “Do you review and approve the bureau’s budget? ...Wouldn’t you want to, as head of the Federal Reserve, since [the CFPB] falls under your purview?” Rep. Guinta asked the Federal Reserve Chair, who testified she is not aware of specific details. “Congress set up a system in which we fund them but don’t decide what their budget should be,” she said. Democrats originally devised the CFPB’s independent budget to shield the agency from oversight. Rep. Guinta has voted for legislation to audit the Federal Reserve, as well as to end “too big to fail,” a system of financial bailouts that Dodd-Frank made permanent. His bill to prevent the CFPB from raising auto loan rates passed the House of Representatives by a large margin. ###
06.21.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) issued the following statement today, after the Obama Administration released the full transcript of terrorist Omar Mateen’s 911 call from the scene of last week’s terrorist attack in Orlando, which killed 49 people. The Administration previously released a heavily redacted transcript, omitting Mateen’s oath of allegiance to ISIS and all references to the terrorist group: “The President believes we can defeat radical Islam by simply striking references from the public record. Word games are no substitute for a real strategy, and widespread outcry forced the Administration to retreat from its refusal to tell the truth about last week’s attack, which Granite Staters recognize for what it was: the Administration’s latest failure to keep civilians safe. We deserve the truth about Islamic terror. Our troops in the field, fighting ISIS in Syria and Iraq, deserve more honesty from their Commander-in-Chief. Wishing away the problem only puts Americans in greater danger.” Rep. Guinta voted for the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, directing more resources to the Global War on Terror. He speaks frequently at deployments of the New Hampshire Army National Guard, whose 197th Field Artillery Brigade and 197th Field Artillery Regiment recently deployed to undisclosed locations in the Middle East. ###
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today’s Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which the House of Representatives passed 282-138, prevents another round of Base Realignment and Closure that could impact the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, said Congressman Frank Guinta. Last year, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) successfully introduced an amendment to protect New Hampshire’s historic shipyard, responsible for repairing and modernizing U.S. Navy submarines, from closure. The provision will remain intact in the current legislation. “Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is a major job and economic engine,” said the Congressman, who has made jobs on the Seacoast a centerpiece of his two terms. “These jobs are high-skilled, high-tech, good-paying ones.” “Granite Staters create advanced vessels that defend our shores and project American power at sea, where threats are on the rise,” said Rep. Guinta. “But our ability to meet them has declined drastically.” In the South China Sea, the Obama Administration is increasing naval deployments, as China expands its military presence there, threatening trade routes and U.S. allies. According to a Wall Street Journal report, the Navy fleet is its smallest in 30 years. The Department of Defense Appropriations Act denies the President’s proposed troop reductions and includes Global War on Terror funding, in addition to more support for U.S. allies – such as Israel, Ukraine and Jordan – against aggression. Importantly, said Rep. Guinta, the spending bill improves troop pay, readiness, training and equipment, as well as military procurement and health care programs. Rep. Guinta also voted today for the Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to train state and local law enforcement to detect and report terrorist activity. ###
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) today voted for the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, a House bill that Manchester’s former mayor said would protect Granite Staters’ basic rights under the Constitution. “IRS scandals, from the targeting of conservative and religious groups to stonewalling a Congressional investigation, are too numerous to count. Employees destroyed evidence. A former IRS official refused to testify. A new one will probably receive a congressional censure. There may be an impeachment,” said the Congressman. “Amidst all these problems at the agency, collecting record taxes, there’s another one: the IRS released private taxpayer information to the media.” In 2012, ProPublica revealed that IRS agents illegally divulged conservative groups’ non-profit applications to the journalism center. In 2014, the IRS settled a lawsuit by the conservative National Organization for Marriage, which accused the agency of leaking presidential candidate Mitt Romney’s personal details to campaign opponents. The Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act would eliminate the IRS requirement that non-profit organizations disclose their donors. “This is a politicized agency, inimical to Americans’ rights to free speech and assembly, that has proven to be reckless, even sinister. This bill would prevent political operatives at the IRS from intimidating Granite Staters who donate to a conservative, liberal, or any 501(c) organization.” Such organizations are tax-exempt and may pursue charitable, religious, educational, political or other activities. Earlier this year, Rep. Guinta voted for a series of bills to prevent the IRS from re-hiring employees fired for misconduct; to enforce congressional control of agency funding, including fees it collects outside the normal appropriations process; and to prevent bonuses to employees until the IRS improves its customer service. He signed Americans for Tax Reform’s Taxpayer Protection Pledge, pledging never to raise taxes or reduce deductions, and has voted several times to repeal and replace Obamacare, the federal health care program granting the IRS greater power over Granite Staters’ health care decisions, he said. The Congressman described the link between individual privacy and Freedom of Speech. “The IRS is attempting to protect entrenched interests in Washington by controlling speech that may disrupt the status quo,” he said. “Protecting Granite Staters from over-zealous bureaucrats will ensure their right to exercise basic freedoms without fear of persecution.” ###
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Frank Guinta, who has voted against a number of spending bills in the 114th Congress, voted today against the Legislative Appropriations Act, which provides a 2.1 percent funding increase to House operations in fiscal year 2017 – $73 million above the 2016 level. He was one of only 14 Republicans to vote against the legislation. Member offices would receive funding increases, “while too many Granite Staters are struggling to make ends meet,” said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Budget Committee. “Constant funding increases, no matter the nation’s fiscal problems, must make Granite Staters wonder if Washington exists on another planet.” The Congressman recently voted against an Energy and Water appropriations that failed to pass the House. It increased spending by $259 million over the prior year. Today’s bill passed the House without Rep. Guinta’s vote, as did last year’s budget deal that lifted federal spending caps and an Omnibus bill that raised federal spending by an additional $50 billion in 2016. As Manchester’s mayor, Rep. Guinta cut taxes and balanced the city budget four consecutive years. “In Washington, I’m working to make sure people who make the laws also live by those laws. Elected office is not just a job. Representing New Hampshire’s First District is an opportunity to lead by example, an opportunity I take seriously in Congress.” The Legislative Appropriations Act continues a freeze on member pay, an element of the bill the Congressman supports, among others, he said. However, the bill’s larger spending increase motivated his “no” vote today, he explained. ###
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta dissented from a House-passed bill yesterday that he said leans too far towards a taxpayer bailout of Puerto Rico’s $72 billion public debt. Unlike a state, the island territory must seek Congress’ approval to restructure its debt, akin to a bankruptcy. However, PROMESA – the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act – creates an oversight committee that will likely leave Puerto’s public pensions, utility subsidies, as well as generous bonus system largely unchanged, focusing instead on restructuring and delaying debt repayments. “After defaulting on a recent debt repayment, Puerto Rico doled out $120 million in Christmas bonuses to government employees,” said Rep. Guinta. “Without serious reform of its public sector, Puerto Rico’s finances will continue to weigh heavily on its economy, the real problem.” In order to continue paying high government salaries and pensions, relative to those in its shrinking private sector, Puerto Rico may also have issued several billion dollars in government bonds, a form of debt financing, illegally. “This is what happens when your tax base, because of a punitive, self-interested bureaucracy, disappears,” said the Congressman. Rep. Guinta said bondholders on both the U.S. mainland and Puerto Rico – retirement and college tuition savers – would be on the losing end of PROMESA. “This bill will allow Puerto Rico to evade contractual obligations to Granite Staters with savings tied up in government bonds,” he said. “Yet the Puerto Rican government will continue to spend beyond its means.” Manchester’s former mayor, who cut taxes, balanced the municipal budget four consecutive years. He sits on the House Budget and Financial Services Committees. “PROMESA means that Congress will certainly revisit this issue, when unemployment and business stagnation on the island will be as bad or worse.” “Rather than bailing out bad decisions of an entrenched bureaucracy, we should focus on setting the terms of economic revitalization, which would bring jobs and growth back to the island.” ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – More than a year of negotiations with the National Credit Union Administration led to Congressman Frank Guinta’s introduction today of the Credit Union Examination Reform Act, a bill the Financial Services Committee member said would ensure critical regulatory relief for New Hampshire credit unions and others around the country. Yesterday, NCUA Chairman Rick Metsger pledged to move forward with an extended 18-month examination cycle that Rep. Guinta’s bill requires by law. In a June 8th letter to New Hampshire’s First District congressman, Metsger described his agency’s change of policy as “only the first step of NCUA’s efforts to improve the entire examination and supervision process.” “The next logical step,” said Rep. Guinta, “was introducing today’s reform bill, the product of a long collaboration among community financial institutions, Congress and regulators, as we determined how best to protect financial markets and customers’ access to credit, which feeds the economy.” He thanked Chairman Metsger for his willingness to take action. Last year, Rep. Guinta hosted NCUA leaders at America’s Credit Union Museum in Manchester to hear concerns from Granite Staters about over-regulation. “Credit union employees’ time and money could be better spent providing good service to car and home buyers, as well as entrepreneurs, who rely on local credit lines,” said Rep. Guinta. “Our present prescriptive calendar-year requirement creates a logjam of examination at the end of each year, which is neither effective nor efficient,” writes Chairman Metsger. “Well-run credit unions will experience a decrease in disruptions caused by examinations.” Also this week, House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling announced that Rep. Guinta’s bill will become part of the Financial CHOICE Act to replace Dodd-Frank. “I’m grateful for the Chairman’s support,” said Rep Guinta, a member of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. “We’re working hard to provide relief to middle-class families.” Rep. Hensarling added, “Pro-growth reforms in our plan will provide much-needed relief to community financial institutions, allowing America’s small hometown banks and credit unions to focus their time and resources on their customers.” ###
05.31.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – On Memorial Day, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) will visit a ceremony at the New Hampshire Veterans Cemetery in Boscawen, where he will help to dedicate a new memorial to Granite State service men and women who lost their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. He will also walk in the Manchester Memorial Day Parade. “Remembering brave Granite Staters who died defending our state and country is my highest honor as a U.S. Congressman. Memorial Day is a solemn occasion that also reminds Americans to enjoy our God-given freedom, for which friends, family, and even complete strangers, have given their lives,” he said. The Congressman introduced the Honor our Fallen Heroes Act, which would remove a Veterans Administration technicality to allow Pam Rogers, his constituent in Exeter, to bury her Civil War ancestor with full honors. After failing to locate the Union soldier’s grave, and discovering he might be eligible for one in a U.S. military cemetery, Ms. Rogers contacted Rep. Guinta for help, leading to their partnership. This week, Rep. Guinta voted for bills that improve oversight at VA hospitals, expand daily care for disabled veterans, and support family caregivers. Previously, he has introduced legislation to protect the Veterans Choice Card program, which expanded vets’ choice of care to private providers, and to lift restrictions. Rep. Guinta cosponsored the Hire More Heroes Act, a bill that removes Obamacare regulations to encourage businesses to hire more vets, and holds job fairs to increase their employment opportunities. Manchester’s former mayor said that helping today’s vets is a way to honor past generations. “While we reflect on Granite Staters’ service and sacrifice, we must redouble our efforts to reform an antiquated federal system that often poorly serves their brothers-in-arms,” he said. “And we must supply our troops with the tools they need to overcome any obstacle. Memorial Day is a reminder of that duty.” Rep. Guinta recently voted for the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017, authorizing defense spending. After a series of reductions, it increases troop numbers, their pay, and funds to repair vehicles and equipment, among other national security priorities. Medal of Honor recipient Ryan Pitts of Nashua will deliver the Keynote Address at the New Hampshire Veterans Cemetery on Monday. Governor Maggie Hassan, Senators Jeanne Shaheen and Kelly Ayotte, and Congresswoman Annie Kuster are scheduled to attend the event. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) issued the following statement today, after Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald compared long wait times at VA hospitals to long lines at Disney theme parks: “The Secretary’s callous comments show how out of touch he is with the state of veterans health care, still substandard two years after a nationwide scandal. Dozens of vets died on secret patient waiting lists, while VA employees collected bonuses. Studies show thousands of vets died before receiving appointments. Secretary McDonald’s comparison of their plight to a good time at Disneyland is extremely disturbing. If the VA were anything like Disneyland, senior executives there would have been fired a long time ago.” In the 114th Congress, Rep. Guinta has voted for the bipartisan VA Accountability Act, which allows the Secretary to remove or demote underperforming or negligent employees. He introduced legislation to expand veterans’ choice of health care to private facilities and another bill to enforce reform. ###
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – New Hampshire families visited Washington, D.C., this week to share stories of loved ones lost to the heroin epidemic. First Congressional District residents Doug Griffin from Newton, Chucky Rosa of Seabrook, as well as Anne Marie and James Zanfagna of Plaistow, attended a Thursday hearing with members of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, before appearing this morning at a Capitol Hill press conference. At the hearing, Mr. Griffin told the story of his daughter Courtney, who died of a heroin overdose in 2014. “For people who don’t understand,” he said, wiping away tears, “just let them talk to me a while. I’ll help them understand.” Representatives Frank Guinta (NH-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-02), co-founders of the Bipartisan Task Force, organized the events in partnership with Addiction Policy Forum. They are co-sponsors of legislation that forms the basis of the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act, which the House passed last week. It includes Rep. Guinta’s amendment to increase funding to long-term addiction recovery programs and his bill to protect first responders, who administer emergency treatment to overdose victims, from prosecution under civil liability laws. “It’s hard to describe in words what Mr. Griffin and other families must be feeling. Just witnessing their emotion puts our work here in Congress into focus. Numbers will never tell the true story of personal devastation, due to heroin and opioid addiction,” Rep. Guinta. The Congressman also hosted a reception for First District families in his office. Over 180 families from around the country were in Washington to urge a newly formed House and Senate conference to quickly send the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse and Reduction Act to the President for signature. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) and Senator Rob Portman (OH) joined today’s press conference, along with Representatives Bob Dold (IL-10), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) and Tim Ryan (OH-13), who expressed confidence in a positive outcome by July. ###
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives approved Congressman Frank Guinta’s amendment to increase funding to Joint Task Force North (JTFN), a military operation at Fort Bliss, Texas, that works closely with U.S. Customs and Border Protection to prevent drug trafficking across the Mexican border. In April, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) visited the operation – a cooperative effort including civilian and military personnel, and members of every service branch – to investigate Mexican cartels that produce or distribute most heroin in the United States. In the Congressman’s home state of New Hampshire, at the center of a nationwide drug epidemic, one out of every 3,000 people died of a heroin or related overdose last year. “During my trip to the border, I learned just how complex these cartels, such as ‘El Chapo’ Guzman’s Sinaloa Cartel, are,” he said. “These are highly sophisticated, adaptive organizations, which require an even better counter-force.” “Unfortunately, the Administration slashed their budget, a reckless move that endangers Granite Staters. But commanders at JTFN need more resources to cut off the supply of deadly drugs, killing kids from New Hampshire to California. We must prioritize spending, as I did as Manchester’s mayor, and this is a perfect example. I’m grateful for the opportunity to help.” Rep. Guinta co-founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic to develop solutions to a growing public health crisis, worse in New England and the Midwest. His amendment to fund JTFN passed the House as part of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017 (NDAA) late last night. The NDAA authorizes funding for the Department of Defense, also reversing the President’s reduction of U.S. Army troops. The Army Times reports the number of troops at a post-World War II low. According to another Wall Street Journal report, the U.S. Navy fleet is its smallest in 30 years. However, after removing troops from Iraq, the Obama Administration has been re-deploying them across the Middle East. In the South China Sea, the Administration is also increasing naval deployments, as China expands its military presence, threatening trade routes and U.S. allies. At Fort Bliss, Army leaders described the toll of more frequent deployments on fewer troops, recounted Rep. Guinta. “They’re exhausted,” he said, “affecting not only their ability to protect our country but also their ability to care for their families.” “Our hardware is exhausted too,” he said. “Today’s defense authorization improves troop readiness and training, in addition to equipment repair. It gives troops a pay raise, one the President denied, and will hopefully help to improve morale.” “We must project strength abroad, starting closer to home at our southern border.” ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act, containing nearly all of the legislation that Congressman Frank Guinta and members of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic announced at a Capitol Hill press conference this month. The Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act (H.R. 5046) contains Rep. Guinta’s bills to increase funding to long-term recovery programs, as well as to spread Good Samaritan laws that protect first responders, who administer emergency treatment to overdose victims, from prosecution. Other components of the Congressman’s STOP ABUSE Act, such as an inter-agency task force to coordinate law enforcement and public health agencies, became part of today’s House action. House and Senate members will include it in a conference report for the President to sign. “I expect the Senate and White House to quickly approve today’s legislation, the product of a partnership between House members and our constituents, on the front lines of a nationwide fight against heroin and opioid abuse,” said Rep. Guinta, who thanked his Republican and Democrat colleagues. The House voted 400-5 in support of Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act. “However, this is just the latest step. To end the plague of addiction and overdose in New Hampshire, we’ll need to further strengthen prevention, treatment and recovery programs, in addition to border security,” said the Congressman. During a recent trip to the Texas border, Rep. Guinta learned about the role international drug cartels play in his state’s growing number of overdose deaths, he said. “The opioid overdose epidemic is taking a terrible toll,” said Greg Williams, Co-Founder of Facing Addiction, a nationwide non-profit group. “More than 23 million Americans are recovering from substance use disorders. With ongoing community-based support, they can sustain long-term recovery. Facing Addiction is grateful to Representatives Guinta and Anne Kuster for their amendment to H.R. 5046 to ensure that necessary support. We’re looking forward to the President’s signature by July 4th!” To advance solutions to New Hampshire’s high rate of overdose victims, the Congressman – Manchester’s former mayor – co-founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic with fellow Granite Stater Rep. Anne Kuster (NH-02). He is an original co-sponsor of the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act, legislation underlying the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act. ###
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Frank Guinta’s bill to require a federal study of local laws that prevent first responders, including friends and family of overdose victims, from administering emergency treatment, such as Narcan. Yesterday, the Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016 passed with other measures to address the nationwide heroin and opioid epidemic, especially bad in New Hampshire, where over 430 Granite Staters died of a heroin or related overdose last year. “That number is already trending upwards this year,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01), who founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, which includes more than 80 Republican and Democrat members of Congress. Last night, many spoke at a Leadership Special Order to underscore the growing problem in their districts. “Police and firefighters, even civilians, who risk their health and safety to help Granite Staters at death’s door, deserve protection from out-of-date laws that punish them for acting quickly,” said Rep. Guinta. “My bill seeks to create Good Samaritan exceptions for those who act in an overdose victim’s best interest.” The Congressman, Manchester’s former mayor, whose amendment to increase funding to long-term recovery programs is also expected to pass the House this week, emphasized there may be situations where the exception would not apply. “It’s a complicated issue that the Government Accountability Office must look into,” he said. Rep. Guinta said that additional legislation this week would provide immediate help to Granite Staters suffering from heroin and opioid addiction. On the House schedule are bills to fund drug recovery courts, control opioid over-prescription, and improve treatment of neonatal abstinence syndrome – infants suffering from withdrawal symptoms. “Our efforts to improve the public response to an epidemic killing young and old, men and women, people across every demographic, will continue well beyond today,” he said. “We need to strengthen prevention, treatment and recovery programs, as well as cut off supply of deadly drugs.” ###
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Frank Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, voted today for a Resolution of Disapproval to override a new federal regulation, which treats individual investors and small businesses like large corporations, a change that would dramatically shrink their financial options, he said. “Facing increased regulation and litigation, investment firms would cease to offer services to retirees and small businesses in New Hampshire, where we have high proportions of both,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor. “The trend under this President will continue: fewer, more concentrated industries, especially the financial industry, as the middle class falls farther behind.” Rep. Guinta said he supports protections for individual investors and 401K holders. However, the Department of Labor’s new “fiduciary standard,” expanding federal oversight to fee-for-service transactions, goes too far. Until recently, the fiduciary standard applied primarily to institutional investing and wealth management. “Low- and moderate-income investors happy with their advisors could lose valuable relationships,” said the Congressman. “Think of it like this: ‘If you like your financial advisor, you can keep your financial advisor.’ Not true. This is another way for the government to limit Americans’ choices, this time their financial ones.” The DOL announced its new rule this month, overstepping its jurisdiction, explained Rep. Guinta, a member of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade. “Because of the potential economic effects, the Securities and Exchange Commission declined to issue a rule that the DOL had no such qualms issuing.” “Administrative overlaps and duplications are more signs of a White House with little control over its agencies or regard for the average American investor, who stands to lose much more than any Wall Street firm.” The Congressman is a member of the House Budget Committee. The Congressional Review Act allows Congress to override federal regulations via an expedited legislative procedure known as a Resolution of Disapproval. ###
04.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee today approved several bills to combat the opioid epidemic facing the United States by providing tools to investigate criminal activity and prevent and treat addiction. Today’s markup follows last week’s Committee approval of two bills to curtail international drug trafficking into the United States and protect classified information pertaining to drug kingpins. The Committee first approved by voice vote the bipartisan Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act (H.R. 5046) to combat the opioid epidemic by establishing a streamlined, comprehensive opioid abuse grant program that encompasses a variety of new and existing programs, such as vital training and resources for first responders and law enforcement, criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids, drug courts, and residential substance abuse treatment. The bill authorizes $103 million annually for the grant program and is fully offset for cut-go purposes. Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), chief sponsor of the bill, said the following on today’s Committee vote: “For more than a decade, the rapid incline of heroin and opioid addiction has wreaked havoc on individuals, families, and communities in every part of our nation. It has increased crime and placed a heavy financial burden on American taxpayers. The Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act is a common sense, bipartisan approach that addresses this issue head on and will make a positive impact on our fight against addiction.” Second, the Committee approved by voice vote the bipartisan Opioid Program Evaluation (OPEN) Act (H.R. 5052), sponsored by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), to increase the transparency and accountability of the comprehensive opioid abuse grant program. Specifically, it requires grantees to report on the use of grant funds and requires a publicly available analysis of whether or not the grants have achieved their intended purposes. Leader McCarthy praised today’s Committee vote: “The House is taking action to address and resolve America’s opioid epidemic. Our goal is simple: we want to build on current legislative efforts to prevent addiction and treat those suffering. To focus on achieving these outcomes I introduced the Opioid Program Evaluation (OPEN) Act. “Helping solve this epidemic requires a holistic approach that starts with identifying goals and the metrics used to determine success. The OPEN Act will require the Attorney General and the Health and Human Services Secretary to collect and publicly share information about the effectiveness of opioid-related programs. By increasing access to this data, healthcare officials, researchers, and engaged citizens will have an opportunity to strengthen treatment and prevention programs. There is no quick cure to this problem, but we can and must do more to stop the tide of this epidemic so the American people can live freer and happier lives. To do so, our solutions need to be anchored by data and proven results. I want to thank Chairman Goodlatte for considering this important legislation and his continued leadership on addressing this crisis.” Third, the Committee approved the Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016 (H.R. 5048) by voice vote that would require the Government Accountability Office to study state and local Good Samaritan laws that protect caregivers, law enforcement personnel, and first responders who administer opioid overdose reversal drugs or devices from criminal liability, as well as those who contact emergency service providers in response to an overdose. Representative Frank Guinta (R-N.H.), author of H.R 5048, said the following on today’s vote: “Across the country, heroin and opioid abuse are growing at rapid rates, especially in New Hampshire. In schools, kids are learning to administer anti-overdose medication. That’s how bad the problem is: Police and firefighters, even family and friends, must carry medication like Narcan and know how to use it at a moment’s notice. We must protect them from liability laws that could interfere with emergency treatment. I’m grateful to the Judiciary Committee for helping to remove legal barriers. As co-founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, I’m working with its members to develop immediate solutions to this nationwide crisis.” And fourth, the Committee approved by voice vote the Clarifying Amendment to Provide Terrorism Victims Equity (CAPTIVE) Act (H.R. 3394). This bill, authored by Representative Bill Posey (R-Fla.), allows the blocked assets of foreign terrorist drug dealers to be used to compensate victims of terrorist attacks that they perpetrated. Representative Posey stated the following on today’s approval of the CAPTIVE Act: “The CAPTIVE Act is an important step forward in providing justice to American victims of terrorism. More and more, terrorist groups like ISIS, the FARC, Al-Qaeda and Boko Haram are financed by revenue from the global drug trade. This common sense bill would allow the funds seized from terrorists’ drug operations to be used to satisfy the Judgments won by their American victims. I would like to thank Chairman Goodlatte and all our cosponsors for their support of this effort and I am hopeful this important bill can move quickly through the legislative process.” House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised passage of today’s bills that combat the opioid epidemic: “The United States today faces an unrelenting opioid epidemic that claims thousands of lives each year. No community is immune from this epidemic; it affects all communities across the United States – urban, suburban, and rural. The bills approved by the House Judiciary Committee today will help prevent and treat opioid addiction and also ensure that taxpayer dollars are used wisely and efficiently. I thank the many members who have worked on legislation to address this national crisis, including Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Majority Leader McCarthy, and Representatives Guinta and Posey. I look forward to these bills being on the floor soon so that these much needed tools will be quickly deployed to help combat this problem.” ###
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – IRS employees harassed conservative and religious groups, violating their First Amendment rights, a House investigation showed. In 2013, the federal agency paid more than $46 million in fraudulent or potentially fraudulent refunds, according to an Inspector General report. Meanwhile, over a 10-year period, nearly 1,600 IRS employees evaded federal income taxes, many retaining their jobs, despite a federal law requiring their termination. “Only in the upside-down world of a federal agency would IRS employees also receive $6 million in performance bonuses,” said Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01), a member of the House Budget Committee, as well as the Financial Services Committee. This week, he voted for six bills that address problems at the IRS, “one of the most dysfunctional agencies that does not seem to care,” he said. The six bills include measures to prevent the IRS from re-hiring employees fired for misconduct; to end bonuses at the agency, until it improves customer service; to enforce congressional control of agency funding, including fees the IRS collects outside the normal appropriations process; and to prevent the IRS from hiring new employees, until the IRS Director certifies to Congress that none owe taxes. The House of Representatives passed additional legislation to prohibit funds for the purpose of targeting Americans for their political or religious beliefs. “The agency is collecting record taxes, at the same time exhibiting astounding disdain for the people the IRS serves,” said Rep. Guinta. “Increasingly, those people seem to be IRS employees. This week’s legislation will return a sense of public service to the agency. Granite Staters struggling with the federal tax burden deserve more respect.” ###
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic held its first Capitol Hill press conference today, Republican and Democrat House members presenting 15 bills that would help their districts overcome a nationwide public health crisis, they explained to congressional staff and reporters. Outside the U.S. Capitol, Representatives Frank Guinta (NH-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-02) introduced more than a dozen House members. Many spoke about family members and friends, who had fallen victim to heroin or opiate abuse. They announced legislation that would reform opioid prescription practices, update Veterans’ Administration pain treatment procedures, and increase access to anti-overdose medications, among other Task Force objectives. In opening remarks, Rep. Guinta addressed the demand and supply sides of the heroin problem. “Some of our bills strengthen law enforcement at major drug trafficking centers and direct low-level offenders into treatment. We must stop the revolving door between prison and addiction. We must also crack down on major drug dealers to choke off supply,” said the Congressman. With his New Hampshire colleague Rep. Kuster, he introduced the STOP ABUSE Act. Their bill would increase cooperation among federal, state and local agencies, as well as improve prescription pill monitoring programs across state lines, in order to reduce the flow of legal medications flooding black markets. Four out of five heroin users began with prescription opioids. Rep. Alex Mooney (WV-02) spoke about his bill to reform federal programs encouraging opioid over-prescription. “Prescription drug abuse is wreaking havoc on families and communities in West Virginia and across our country. The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act changes current law to end the unnecessary overuse of prescription painkillers. This bill empowers doctors, not the federal government, to choose what is right for patients,” said Rep. Mooney. Rep. Kuster added, “I’m a proud co-founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic with Congressman Guinta. I’m particularly proud that our members – from both sides of the aisle – joined to release today’s legislative package. There’s no silver bullet for solving this issue, which is why our package takes a multi-faceted approach to meeting the challenge through increased treatment, better training for law enforcement and medical practitioners, and of course, funding.” Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Budget Committee, is working with House Leadership to secure funding to programs that Task Force members advocated at today’s press conference. According to the Congressman, Rep. Hal Rogers, the Appropriations Committee Chairman who invited him to speak at last month’s Prescription Drug and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, will assist Task Force members to identify funding within the existing federal budget. “There isn’t a community in America that hasn’t been touched by the addiction to heroin and other opioids,” said Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CN-05). “This addiction knows no bounds. It doesn’t know race or gender, economic status, or party affiliation. We must do everything within our power to prevent this epidemic from destroying more lives.” Also at the press conference were Representatives Ryan Costello, David Cicilline, Chuck Fleishmann, Tim Ryan, Tom MacArthur, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Steve Chabot, Katherine Clark, Steve Knight, William Keating, Barbara Comstock, Evan Jenkins, and Donald Norcross. Rep. Guinta thanked attendees for their contributions. ###
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Kinder Morgan, the energy company that had proposed a natural gas pipeline through New Hampshire’s First District, announced it is suspending plans to build the Northeast Energy Direct (NED) project, after failing to generate interest among gas suppliers and encountering opposition from Granite Staters along the proposed route. During the public approval process, Congressman Frank Guinta pushed the company to answer his constituents’ concerns about the pipeline’s potential economic and environmental effects. He issued the following statement today: "From the start, the Kinder Morgan pipeline faced questions about its benefits to Granite Staters in Merrimack, Londonderry, and more towns and cities in the First District – questions I repeatedly raised to company and federal officials at the highest levels. Thanks to the concerted efforts of local citizens and New Hampshire’s delegation, we have a resolution that will please property owners and all those who support transparent, open government. In Congress, I strive to represent as many people as possible and am glad this issue reached a conclusion satisfactory to a large majority of my constituents.” In the 114th Congress, Representatives Guinta (NH-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-01), as well as Senators Kelly Ayotte and Jeanne Shaheen – the state’s entire congressional delegation – joined to write a number of letters to Kinder Morgan and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, urging them to open deliberations to the public. ###
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – New Hampshire’s two members of the U.S. House of Representatives joined with leaders in the pharmacy, health information technology and health insurance industries this week for a Capitol Hill briefing to spotlight the nation’s growing opioid addiction problem and innovative solutions to prevent it. The briefing was sponsored by the Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC), a coalition of chief executives from companies representing all health sectors. HLC President Mary R. Grealy began the briefing by noting that overdoses and deaths connected with opioid addiction – involving both heroin and prescription medications – have been steadily increasing over the past decade, but solutions are complicated by the need to treat the one in every three Americans suffering from some degree of chronic pain. “We must confront the problem of addiction, but without making life even more difficult for people already facing severe health challenges.” Ms. Grealy praised the work of U.S. Representatives Frank Guinta (R-NH) and Annie Kuster (D-NH), co-chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. Congresswoman Kuster said, “I was so pleased to join the Healthcare Leadership Council to discuss possible solutions to the opioid epidemic sweeping across the nation. In New Hampshire, far too many families are losing their loved ones to opioid and heroin use, and we cannot sit idly by. “I’ve been fighting in Congress to raise awareness about this issue and, as co-chair of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, I know that in order to successfully put an end to this epidemic, we must join together as a community to meet this challenge head on. I’m so grateful to the Healthcare Leadership Council for its dedication to this cause and its efforts to use innovative technologies to combat this epidemic. I look forward to continuing to work with its members to find solutions to this health crisis that has devastated so many of our communities across the country.” Said Congressman Guinta, “I was proud to be a part of the Healthcare Leadership Council’s Capitol Hill event. Gathering like this week’s are crucial to developing solutions to New Hampshire’s opioid and heroin crisis. Granite Staters suffering from chronic pain must have better understanding of various treatments available to them, as well as the risks of opioid medication. Pharmaceutical, health insurance and technology leaders all have a role to play, as does my Congressional Task Force with Representative Kuster. Together, we’re working to remove the obstacles doctors and patients face, such as complex or incomplete prescription monitoring systems, when making healthcare decisions. In the process, we will save lives and reduce the enormous costs to our economy and society.” At the briefing, experts from Surescripts, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Tennessee and Walgreens discussed a wide range of approaches to the opioid problem, including using e-prescribing to reduce the opportunities for prescription drug abuse, optimizing data analytics to better understand prescribing patterns, eliminating barriers to safe drug disposal, and making naloxone – a medication that blocks the effects of opioids, available without a prescription. ### The Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC), a coalition of chief executives from all disciplines within American healthcare, is the exclusive forum for the nation’s healthcare leaders to jointly develop policies, plans, and programs to achieve their vision of a 21st century system that makes affordable, high-quality care accessible to all Americans. Follow us on Twitter at @HealthInFocus.
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – More than a dozen House members, including the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, are original co-sponsors of Congressman Frank Guinta’s Firearms Transfer Improvement Act, a bill that would provide a significant boost to New Hampshire gun dealers – nearly all of them small businesses – as well as the Granite State’s tourism industry and larger economy. “At its foundation, this bill is meant to protect every American’s right to bear arms, an essential freedom as important today as it ever was,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor and a member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus. He explained that his bill, which he introduced today, would extend the same federal law that allows interstate long gun purchases to handgun purchases. For instance, a Vermonter could purchase a handgun in New Hampshire, where no state sales tax exists, and transport it home, as long as he follows his state’s gun laws. “This bill would be a boon for states that, in addition to enjoying greater Second Amendment freedom, enjoy greater economic freedom,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “New Hampshire stands to benefit immensely.” The New Hampshire Firearms Coalition endorsed his legislation. “People travel to New Hampshire from all over to purchase tires, clothing, jewelry, furniture, electronics, everything. Now, they’ll be able to lawfully purchase handguns free from sales tax,” said Vice President and Training Director Alan Rice. “Rep. Guinta’s bill would enable New Hampshire’s licensed dealers to expand their market and their customers to avoid extra bureaucracy. We support the Congressman’s efforts.” Gun Owners of America describes the legislation as the best under consideration in the House of Representatives. Executive Director Erich Pratt added, “On behalf of more than 1.5 million gun owners, Gun Owners of America strongly backs Rep. Guinta’s bill to allow out-of-state firearms purchases from licensed dealers. This is a significant step toward repealing one of the many infringements on people’s ability to exercise their Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms.” Representatives Dave Brat (VA-07), Andy Barr (KY-06), Tim Huelskamp (KS-01), Stephen Fincher (TN-08), Matt Salmon (AZ-05), Bill Johnson (OH-06), Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Mike Bost (IL-12), Richard Hudson (NC-08), Tom Emmer (MN-06), Ryan Zinke (MT-AL), Steve Stivers (OH-15) and Bill Huizenga (MI-02) joined Rep. Guinta to introduce today’s Firearms Transfer Improvement Act. ###
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Frank Guinta (NH-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-02), founding members of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, convened a Congressional briefing yesterday to explore opioid prescription practices and their relation to increasing rates of addiction and overdose around the country – particularly bad in the New Hampshire representatives’ home state. Studies show the majority of heroin users migrate to the street drug after taking prescription pain killers. Nationwide, doctor-prescribed drugs like OxyContin and Hydrocodone, flooding black markets, cause more deaths than even illegal heroin. Yesterday’s panelists included the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Dr. Grant Baldwin, who demonstrated the federal agency’s new prescription guidelines. Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, spoke about structural impediments, such as insurance payment schedules and a dearth of alternative pain medications, to reforming opioid prescription practices. However, Dr. Mehul Desai, President of the International Spine, Pain & Performance Center, emphasized the risk of denying pain medication to legitimate patients, in addition to the risks of over-prescription. “Making sure patients get the medication they need, while also making sure that they understand the risks – and that doctors are taking care to avoid over-prescription – is a careful balancing act,” said Rep. Guinta, who introduced the STOP ABUSE Act with Rep. Kuster. The legislation would strengthen cooperation among federal, state and local governments, responding to the public health crisis. Experts at yesterday’s hearing agreed that both doctors and patients need more thorough, timely information. Various states’ prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMP’s) differ, and their privacy laws also differ, preventing quick sharing of patient information that could prevent “doctor-shopping.” “Our Task Force invited today’s experts to brief us on the best solutions for patients themselves. Most of all, they need more complete information, and so do doctors, especially at the Veterans Administration,” said Rep. Guinta. “There, the federal government can be especially helpful in spreading alternative pain management practices, which can be effective. I’m glad my House colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, were able to join us in our effort to raise public and professional awareness.” Rep. Kuster added, “Four out of five heroin users start on the path to addiction after misusing prescription drugs. We need to get upstream of the problem to prevent our citizens from getting hooked in the first place. I was proud to host today’s hearing, where we heard from a number of experts about what it will take to implement new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention rules.” Representatives Keith Rothfus (PA-12), Evan Jenkins (WV-03) and John Sarbanes (MD-03), all members of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, attended yesterday’s briefing as well. ###
04.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, in partnership with the Addiction, Treatment & Recovery Caucus, will hold a Congressional Briefing next week on Tuesday, April 12, at 3:00 p.m. in the Budget Committee Hearing Room, Cannon House Office Building, Room 210. Republican and Democrat House members will hear from pain management and addiction experts about opioid prescription practices and their role in the nationwide heroin epidemic. The briefing will address the Obama Administration’s announcement of its plan to stop opioid over-prescription. THE EXPERTS: Dr. Nora Volkow NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE Director Dr. Grant Baldwin CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION Director, Division of Unintentional Injury Prevention at the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control Dr. Edward Michna PAIN CARE COALITION Former Chairman, Assistant Professor Harvard Medical School, Anesthesiologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital Dr. Mehul Desai INTERNATIONAL SPINE, PAIN & PERFORMANCE CENTER President LOCATION ON TUESDAY, April 12, 2016: Budget Committee Hearing Room Cannon House Office Building, Room 210 at 3:00 p.m. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that heroin addiction, overdose and death have increased dramatically around the country, affecting Midwest and Northeast states in higher proportion. Representatives Frank Guinta (NH01) and Anne Kuster (NH02), representing New Hampshire’s two congressional districts, formed the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic to gather ideas and develop solutions to the problem. Together, the Bipartisan Task Force and the Congressional Addiction, Treatment & Recovery Caucus include more than 120 House members, representing districts around the country. * Media planning to attend should R.S.V.P to Brendan Thomas at (202) 225-5456 or brendan.thomas@mail.house.gov ###
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Customs and Border Protection apprehends most illegal immigrants who cross the Mexican border to El Paso, Texas, agents told Congressman Frank Guinta during his trip to the Southwest this week. However, loopholes in domestic immigration policy mean that many of those illegal immigrants remain in the United States, the agents said. “And Mexican cartels that control drug smuggling across the southern border control human smuggling along the same routes,” added Rep. Guinta, who founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, in order to help solve the public health crisis gripping his home state, New Hampshire. One of every 3,000 Granite Staters died of a heroin or opiate overdose last year. Across the country, rates of addiction, overdose and death have doubled or even tripled in some places, as Mexican cartels have shifted from marijuana and cocaine distribution to heroin, frequently laced with fentanyl, a powerful synthetic opiate from China, the largest supplier. “The good news is that – thanks to the hard work of Customs and Border Protection and other law enforcement agencies – we have had success against some forms of drug trafficking,” explained Rep. Guinta, “but the cartels are large, complex organizations, which can adapt quickly.” “We are still catching up to a shift in production to a highly addictive and dangerous substance – and to an illegal immigration surge that also provides big profits to cartels. Both businesses are tightly linked and require a stronger response from government at every level, as well as better cooperation from our foreign partners.” In addition to his tour of a new border wall separating El Paso from Juarez, Mexico – one of the world’s most dangerous cities – Rep. Guinta met with leaders of the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC) and Joint Task Force North (JTFN) at Fort Bliss, the second-largest Army base, straddling Texas and New Mexico. EPIC is a drug-trafficking intelligence resource that serves mostly state and local police departments. Joint Task Force North includes members of all service branches and civilian employees, who support counter-drug operations around North America. One of its top targets is the narco-terrorist organization the Sinaloa Cartel, the dominant supplier of heroin in New Hampshire. “I’m grateful to my hosts, especially to the Army, for helping me to grasp the scope and sophistication of threats to America. Some of the biggest originate south of the border, far from New Hampshire but of utmost importance to Granite Staters’ health and safety,” explained Rep. Guinta. “As a member of the House Budget Committee, I have a constitutional responsibility to make sure the men and women protecting our country have the resources they need,” he said. “Even more urgent is instituting policies that deter rather than encourage violations of our laws.” ###
04.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will host a Lakes Region Job Fair, Thursday, April 7, at Lakes Region Community College in Laconia. “Finding a job is hard work. My staff and I are hoping to make it a little easier for Granite Staters, who will have the opportunity to meet dozens of potential employers and education providers,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). The Lakes Region Job Fair is open to all Granite Staters and will take place at the following location, featuring organizations listed below: Lakes Region Job Fair OPEN TO ALL GRANITE STATERS Thursday, April 7, 2016 4:00PM – 6:00PM AT: Lakes Region Community College Center for Arts and Technology 379 Belmont Road Laconia, NH 03246 SAMPLE OF EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE PROVIDERS ATTENDING: MetroCast Cablevision, Belknap Landscape Company, Edward Jones Investments, Laconia Police Department, U.S. Navy, Community Bridges, Titeflex Aerospace, The Wolfeboro Inn, Fireside Inn & Suites, Engraving Awards & Gifts, NH Vocational Rehabilitation, New Hampshire VFW, Opechee Construction Company, Wolfeboro Bay Center, U.S. Small Business Administration, Lakes Region Community Services, Lake Region Medical, Shooters Tavern/Winni Grille, Dept. of Safety, Novus Imaging, Inc., Mount Washington Cruises, Winnisquam Regional School District, Jockey, Pike Industries, J. Jill, Forestview Manor Assisted Living, ClearChoice MD, NH Motor Speedway, Manchester VA Medical Center CALL (603) 641-9536 FOR MORE INFORMATION!
03.31.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Next week, Congressman Frank Guinta, co-founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, will travel to the U.S. southern border to investigate Mexican cartels flooding New Hampshire with cheap, deadly heroin. “The supply is overwhelming,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor, who introduced the STOP ABUSE Act in Congress to improve the response of public health and law enforcement agencies. “A bag of heroin is often cheaper than a six-pack of beer. High school students are learning how to administer Narcan, an anti-overdose medication, to classmates.” “That’s not the world I, nor anyone else I know, wants to live in,” said the Congressman. On Wednesday in Atlanta, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) addressed the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit about New Hampshire’s drug problem and reducing supply and demand. “Just as we must help to wean people off drugs, we must also stop those drugs at their source. Without this two-fold approach, we’ll only see more patients.” New Hampshire’s rate of drug-induced deaths ranks third nationally, according to the Concord Monitor. At briefings in Washington, D.C., and New Hampshire, experts have indicated to Bipartisan Task Force members – numbering over 70 Republican and Democrat House members – that widespread opiate medications are leading legitimate and illegitimate users to heroin. The Drug Enforcement Administration’s 2015 National Drug Threat Assessment reports that sophisticated Mexican cartels control smuggling routes across the southern border and are increasing heroin distribution. Frequently laced with fentanyl from China – a synthetic opiate as much as 50 times stronger – heroin is responsible for the majority of drug-related deaths in the Granite State. In 2015, there were more than 400. One out of every 3,000 Granite Staters died of a heroin or related overdose. This year in January and February, there were at least 20 such overdose deaths in Manchester, a trend set to outpace last year’s total. Starting next Monday, Rep. Guinta will meet with agents of the Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Department of Defense to learn about international efforts to eradicate and interdict the drugs responsible. He thanked the Army at Ft. Bliss in El Paso, Texas, for hosting next week’s activities, including intelligence briefings and a trip to the Mexican border. “The Commanding General and his troops, agents of the Border Patrol and DEA are putting themselves in the line fire to protect Granite Staters from organized gangs, trafficking in human contraband and drugs,” said Rep. Guinta. “I’ll return with a richer understanding of their jobs and what Congress must do to provide maximum assistance.” ###
03.30.2016	ATLANTA, GA – At the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit today, Congressman Frank Guinta, co-founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, focused on real people behind troubling statistics in his home state, New Hampshire, where one in every 3,000 people died of a heroin or opiate overdose last year. “At Rochester’s Hope on Haven Hill, or any number of treatment centers rising to meet the challenge, I meet Granite Staters struggling with addiction all the time. They’re sons and daughters, mothers and fathers, who need help with what has quickly become a national crisis,” said Rep. Guinta, the former of mayor of Manchester. The number of heroin-related deaths in New Hampshire’s biggest city is trending higher than last year’s total figure. To help police departments and hospitals manage the crisis, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) has introduced or voted for legislation to increase federal, state and local cooperation among governments, as well as to increase access to life-saving overdose medication, such as Narcan, and funding to drug courts, which divert drug abusers from the criminal justice system into treatment programs. “With long-term treatment, many of these people could contribute to our society and economy. We need their skills and talents, including their personal stories, so more Granite Staters understand the dangers of heroin and opiates,” said the Congressman. In addition to raising public awareness of New Hampshire’s – and the country’s – growing heroin epidemic at the Summit in Atlanta, Rep. Guinta will travel next month to the southern border to investigate Mexican cartels, smuggling most illegal heroin into the United States. The Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic now counts over 70 Republican and Democrat House members from around the country and will hold a briefing in April to learn about opiate prescription practices in the medical establishment. Many Task Force members joined Rep. Guinta’s letter to Appropriations Committee Hal Rogers in support of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, a bill that Rep. Guinta cosponsored. Chairman Rogers oversees funding and invited Rep. Guinta to speak at today’s Summit. ###
03.29.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – Congressman Frank Guinta has announced the kickoff to his annual Congressional Art Competition, a nationwide high school art contest that the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors each spring. Since 1982, when the program first began, over 650,000 high school students across the country have participated. “Every year, I’m amazed at the level of talent Granite State students display, as well as their range of subject material and tools. I enjoy looking at the world through their eyes,” said the Congressman. “I can’t wait to see this year’s entries and to meet the artists in person. They help make our world a more beautiful place to live.” The Congressional Art Competition is open to all First District high school students. The submission deadline is April 22 (more details follow). The winning artist’s work will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Southwest Airlines will fly winning artists to Washington, D.C., for a national reception in June. Meralee Allen, a former student at Goffstown High School, won last year’s First District contest. Her work “Tea Time” hangs in the U.S. Capitol. A SUMMARY OF CONGRESSIONAL ART COMPETITION RULES: Artwork may be up to 28 inches by 28 inches, up to 4 inches in depth, and must not weigh more than 15 pounds. If a student’s artwork is selected as the winning piece, it must arrive framed and measure no larger than the above dimensions. Paintings - including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) Collages - must be two dimensional Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media - use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-generated art Photography All entries must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Any entry that has been copied from an existing photo or image (including a painting, graphic, or advertisement) that was created by someone other than the student is a violation of the competition rules and will not be accepted. Work submitted must be in the original medium (that is, not a scanned reproduction). All submissions must be dropped off at Rep. Guinta’s district office in Manchester before Friday, April 22nd, at 5:00 pm by the student’s teacher. A full listing of rules and regulations is available at House.gov. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition, please visit Rep. Guinta’s website or call his Manchester office at 603-641-9536. ###
03.29.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – As part of a national program to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Vietnam War, Congressman Frank Guinta appeared at the Manchester Veterans Administration Medical Center today, thanking a crowd of veterans and advocates for their service. In 2008, Congress established a years-long commemoration to honor all those who served the country on the homefront and abroad, including personnel in every military branch and capacity. “Years ago, New Hampshire’s Vietnam vets did not receive the thanks they deserved for their service and sacrifice defending this country,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “As we look back today, we can say with full confidence their efforts helped to win the Cold War, the defining conflict of the latter half of the 20th Century.” “We owe a special debt of gratitude, one that we can never repay, to the soldiers who did not return. That’s why we celebrate their heroism today and every chance we get,” said Rep. Guinta. The 2008 National Defense and Authorization Act authorized the Secretary of Defense to support commemorative events around the country, which commenced in 2012. The Veterans Administration joined the effort, its Secretary setting tomorrow as the VA’s national day of recognition. New Hampshire is home to a higher proportion of vets than most states. Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor, has introduced and voted for federal legislation that improves their access to health care, pension benefits, housing and employment opportunities. ###
03.28.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – At the National Prescription Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta on Wednesday, March 30, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) will discuss New Hampshire’s fight against opiate and heroin abuse at a Congressional Leaders Forum. President Obama is scheduled to address the Summit, including public officials, academics, medical professionals and businesses, during a General Session. Representatives Paul Gosar (AZ-04), William Keating (MA-09), Buddy Carter (GA-01) and Even Jenkins (WV-03) are scheduled to participate on the Congressional Leaders Forum with Rep. Guinta. The bipartisan House members will discuss successful passage of legislation to help prevent neonatal abstinence syndrome – infants born addicted to opiates – as well as other legislation and possible funding. This month, Rep. Guinta led a letter to Rep. Rogers calling for “robust funding” of measures in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, a bill he co-sponsored in the House of Representatives and the Senate passed almost unanimously. In Congress, Rep. Guinta (NH-01) formed the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, including over 70 Republican and Democrat members from around the country. The Task Force has held briefings in New Hampshire and Washington, D.C., investigating addiction and overdose treatments, the rise of fentanyl – a powerful synthetic opiate – and international law enforcement efforts to eradicate and interdict heroin. According to the Concord Monitor, New Hampshire’s rate of drug-induced deaths ranks third nationwide. Last year, one out of every 3,000 Granite Staters died of a heroin or related overdose, more than 400 people. “It seems everyone in my home state knows a family member, friend or neighbor affected by this deadly epidemic,” said Rep. Guinta. “Between math and English classes, Granite State school kids are learning how to administer anti-overdose medication to their classmates. That’s not the world I, nor anyone else I know, wants to live in. We’re taking action.” Rep. Guinta introduced the STOP ABUSE Act to improve cooperation among federal, state and local agencies. In April, he is scheduled to travel to the southern border to investigate Mexican cartels that smuggle most heroin into the U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) – the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and founder of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse – invited Rep. Guinta to speak at this week’s Summit. “I’m grateful for the opportunity to address hundreds of experts about New Hampshire’s heroin problem and steps we’re taking to solve it,” said Rep. Guinta. “I’m looking forward to learning from the brightest minds in prevention, treatment and law enforcement. Working together, we can make progress against heroin and opiate abuse.” Rep. Rogers added, "This is a truly non-partisan issue, as it takes all of us working together to curb the deadly tide of drug abuse in America and inspire real change, from the Commander-in-Chief to local police chiefs and treatment professionals, and everyone in between.” ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta voted yesterday to re-authorize the Older Americans Act (S. 192). The law mostly funds grants to states, which oversee health care and employment programs for Americans 60 or older. The bill reforms many of those programs to eliminate overlap and improve performance. “New Hampshire’s senior citizens, many military veterans and members of the Greatest Generation, are a state treasure. They deserve our support in their later years,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01). “With some job training and employment assistance, more could meet new people and contribute to their local communities.” “A range of programs also meet critical needs, such as nutrition, and produce personal connections that enrich these Granite Staters’ lives,” he said. The Congressman pointed to the success of Meals on Wheels, a meal-delivery service, mainly volunteer, which benefits from a mix of federal, state and local funding. “As someone who has volunteered, it is clear to me that New Hampshire seniors appreciate a daily visit almost as much as they appreciate a hot meal.” New Hampshire’s over-65 population is larger than most states’. According to an analysis of U.S. Census Bureau statistics last year, the state’s median age was the fourth highest. Also last year, Rep. Guinta introduced the SENIORS Act to guarantee Social Security and Veterans Administration beneficiaries a cost-of-living-increase, identifying cost savings in the federal budget to fully pay for the increase. The Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC) endorsed Rep. Guinta’s bipartisan, budget-neutral legislation. Next month, he is scheduled to host a town hall for low-income seniors at the Laconia Housing Authority, where the Congressman plans to discuss his work on the House Budget Committee to secure federal health and retirement programs for current and future retirees. “Some simple changes could save Social Security and Medicare, which face budget shortfalls, for those who truly need them,” he said. Congress had not re-authorized the Older Americans Act since 2011. Yesterday’s update includes measures to prevent elder abuse. Rep. Guinta praised the grant system, allowing states to develop solutions specific to their local populations. ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta issued the following statement, after terrorist attacks in Belgium killed at least 34 people at a Brussels airport and train station: “My heart goes out to the victims of terror attacks in Brussels, the latest European capital to experience widespread violence, all of it directed at innocent civilians. While the facts are still coming in, adherents of the radical Islamic organization ISIS are claiming responsibility, indicating that their jihad against Western democracy continues, perhaps stronger than ever. Attacks in Brussels follow others in Paris and San Bernardino, a growing list of tragedies. The perpetrators are cowardly but well organized and require a forceful collective response. The United States must lead other nations in the fight – not from behind. The world’s most powerful democracy must not hide behind its borders, where weak oversight may encourage our enemies. As a member of Congress, I will do everything possible to secure our country and to help our allies.” Rep. Guinta voted for the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016, which increases funding to the Department of Defense to fight global terrorism. He voted for other recent legislation that strengthens international visa monitoring, as well as requires President Obama to submit his plan to defeat ISIS. The President has said he has “no strategy” to defeat ISIS and missed Congress’ deadline to submit one last month. ###
03.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – New Hampshire’s two congressional representatives, Frank Guinta and Anne Kuster, a Republican and Democrat, who together founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, have requested that the House Appropriations Committee provide “robust funding” to provisions in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). Representatives Guinta and Kuster cosponsored the House bill, a version of which passed the Senate nearly unanimously last week. CARA requires federal health and law enforcement departments to better coordinate their response to a growing nationwide heroin epidemic. The bill also expands grants to states to encourage education and treatment. In a letter to Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and the Committee’s Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY-17), the Granite State representatives describe a problem that has devastated New Hampshire, where over-prescribed legal opiate medication often leads legitimate patients – as well as healthy children and adults, who find drugs like OxyContin and Oxycodone on the black market – to cheaper, deadlier heroin. Across the United States, rates of addiction, overdose and death among a variety of demographics have doubled or tripled. Last year, one out of every 3,000 New Hampshire residents died of a heroin or related overdose. “We must act this year to ensure that our law enforcement officials, care givers mental health experts, and others have the resources necessary to address this crisis in a comprehensive way,” write Representatives Guinta and Kuster in their letter urging more funding. Former Judiciary Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), who introduced CARA in the House, and Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01) – a member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, now with over 70 members – helped them draft and circulate the letter to members of Congress. Fifty-nine Republican and Democrat House members have signed on to the letter. “Districts around the country are experiencing the heroin epidemic, claiming productive members of society. This scourge is ripping apart families, costing thousands of American their lives, if not their self-control and self-respect,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester, New Hampshire’s former mayor. In addition to cosponsoring CARA, he introduced legislation to improve prescription pill monitoring and to expand access to the life-saving overdose medication Narcan. He said he expects the House and Senate to soon agree on a version of CARA. “When I was chief executive of New Hampshire’s largest city, I had to make decisions about where to send limited funds. Spreading opiate and heroin abuse is a problem that commands our immediate attention,” he said. In 2015, the House unanimously adopted Rep. Guinta’s amendment to increase funding to special drug courts. Appropriations Chairman Rogers invited Rep. Guinta to speak at the National Prescription Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, Georgia, this month. The Congressman will travel to the southern border in April to investigate Mexican cartels smuggling heroin into the U.S. as far north as New Hampshire. “We must provide our law enforcement officials adequate support to get these drugs off our streets,” said Rep. Kuster. “We must also ensure that our treatment providers, physicians, and care givers have all the resources they need to provide prevention, recovery, and long-term treatment services to Granite Staters who need help.” ###
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta voted to approve an amicus brief to the Supreme Court in support of 26 states. Texas and 25 others argue that the Obama Administration acted illegally, when it expanded work permits and other benefits to as many as 5 million illegal immigrants, including the parents of citizens or of lawful permanent residents. “Many times, President Obama said that he has no authority to unilaterally change our country’s immigration laws, over which Congress has sole authority. Twenty six states agree – and successfully sued in federal court to stop the President’s expansion of state and federal benefits to illegal immigrants. Not only did he violate the Constitution’s separation of powers, and its language that he faithfully execute all laws, the President violated the Administrative Procedure Act, guaranteeing the public’s right to review and comment on regulations. Granite Staters, through their elected representatives and established rules, deserve a say in the future of their country. “In deciding to hear United States v. Texas, the Supreme Court has also underscored the economic harm of the Administration’s weak enforcement of our borders and criminal laws. New Hampshire, other states and the federal government must bear the financial costs. With important programs already facing insolvency, those costs could be catastrophic, especially for the poorest Americans. New Hampshire’s heroin epidemic is another consequence of our insecure southern border, across which dangerous gangs transport drugs and human cargo. A cheap and deadly supply of heroin is flooding the Granite State. “To protect our Constitution, economy and communities, the House is joining a majority of states to challenge the President’s reckless overreach.” Last year, a lower court blocked the Obama Administration’s implementation of Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents, the program that defers deportation and expands benefits to illegal immigrants. Despite the court’s ruling, the Department of Homeland Security continued issuing deferrals, in addition to over 100,000 it did not report before the ruling. ###
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is limiting consumers’ choice of financial tools and hampering economic growth, said members of the House Financial Services Committee today at a hearing to review the federal agency’s semi-annual report. CFPB Director Richard Cordray defended his agency against charges it manipulated auto-loan data, applying outdated analytic methods in an effort to regulate the auto-loan market, contrary to 2010’s Dodd-Frank financial reform, which Democrats passed on a party-line vote. “The law created a rogue agency with an unelected bureaucrat as its leader, usurping Congress’ legislative authority,” said Rep. Frank Guinta. “However, that law also forbids the CFPB from interfering with auto dealers’ lending flexibility and consumers’ right to negotiate the best deal.” “Predicated on the right to free enterprise, that leverage may be the best chance some Granite Staters have to save for groceries, education or housing. They’re counting on affordable, reliable transportation to get to work, pick up their kids from school or even enter the middle-class.” The New Hampshire Congressman is a member of the Subcommittees on Monetary Policy and Trade, as well as Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. He predicted that the CFPB’s quest for control would lead to a higher flat interest rate for most car buyers. “The CFPB is concentrating power in Washington, D.C., at the expense of hardworking New Hampshire families,” said Manchester’s former mayor. According to a Financial Services investigation, the CFPB is relying on the controversial legal theory of “disparate impact” – which holds that varying economic outcomes may constitute discrimination – to threaten lenders like Ally Financial, while keeping the greater share of settlement money to itself. The investigation shows that the agency, because it lacks supporting evidence, has mistakenly paid sums to many white borrowers and may have illegally coordinated its activities with other federal agencies to increase pressure on auto lenders. Rep. Guinta’s CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act (H.R. 1737) would force the CFPB to retract its regulations and subject its data and methods to neutral experts. A bipartisan House majority, including 88 Democrats, passed the legislation by a vote of 332-96. “The CFPB’s overreach hurts working and middle-class families, who can least afford rate hikes,” said Rep. Guinta. “Certain loan markets may completely disappear, if the CFPB achieves its goals.” Today’s Financial Services Committee hearing also addressed the shrinking short-term loan market and new mortgage rules that have disqualified nearly a quarter of potential home buyers, who recently qualified for mortgages. ###
03.04.2016	CONCORD, NH – Today, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee hosted a field hearing at New Hampshire’s National Guard Headquarters to investigate pain management practices at the Veterans Administration (VA). Representatives Frank Guinta and Anne Kuster, representing New Hampshire’s two congressional districts, as well as Rep. Mike Coffman of Colorado – Chairman of the Subcommittee – and New York’s Rep. Kathleen Rice interviewed witnesses from the VA and other veterans health organizations. Participants focused on opiate over-prescription at VA health facilities. According to media reports based on VA data, prescriptions at VA hospitals for drugs like hydrocodone and oxycodone rose 270 percent from 2001 to 2012. The amount of opiates prescribed at one Wisconsin hospital increased more than fivefold from 2004 to 2012, while the number of patients dropped. The VA is exploring alternative therapies to narcotic painkillers for treating chronic pain. “I’d like to thank the House Veterans Affairs Committee for hosting this important field hearing today in New Hampshire, where we have one of the country’s highest proportions of U.S. military veterans,” said Rep. Guinta. “In Congress, my colleagues and I are constantly looking for ways to improve their health care at the Veterans Administration. In the middle of an opiate and heroin epidemic, affecting nearly every demographic, we must be especially careful that vets in need of pain management assistance do not become victims of opiate over-prescription, leading to other forms of drug abuse.” With Rep. Kuster, the Congressman co-founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, including almost 70 Republican and Democrat members. Rep. Guinta is a member of the House Budget Committee, as well as the Financial Services Committee, who introduced the STOP ABUSE Act to improve addiction treatment and law enforcement measures at multiple levels of government. Rep. Kuster is a ranking member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. “It was an honor to bring today’s hearing to New Hampshire and to hold this important conversation with some of the Granite State’s most important leaders on pain management in the vet community,” she said. “There is an undeniable link between opioid pain medication and heroin use, and it’s our duty to protect our veterans from misguided practices that could set them on the path to addiction.” New Hampshire is in the midst of an opiate and heroin epidemic that gained national attention during the state’s presidential primary election last month. In 2015, one out of every 3,000 Granite Staters died of an opiate or heroin overdose. Studies show that four out of five heroin users start with legal prescription pain killers. ###
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, March 4, 2016, at 10:30 a.m. at the National Guard Headquarters in Concord, N.H., the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations (O&I) will hold an oversight hearing to examine opioid prescription management practices at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The event is open to the press. The purpose of the New Hampshire field hearing is to examine VA’s utilization of opiates for chronic pain management. The Subcommittee will also explore alternative treatments and VA’s use of these methods as a substitute to opioid prescriptions. MEMBERS OF CONGRESS: Representative Frank Guinta (NH-01) Representative Annie Kuster (NH-02) – Ranking Member of O&I Subcommittee Representative Mike Coffman (CO-06) – Chairman of O&I Subcommittee Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-04) WITNESSES: Attorney General Joe Foster – State of New Hampshire Peter Kelleher – President and CEO, Harbor Homes Christine Webber, LDAC – Director of Substance Abuse Services, Easter Seals Farnum Center Grigory Chernyak, MD – Manchester VA Medical Center Julie Franklin, MD – White River Junction VA Medical Center WHERE: New Hampshire National Guard 1 Minuteman Way Concord, NH 03301 Friday, March 4, 2016, at 10:30 a.m Since problems with VA’s opioid prescription management practices gained widespread exposure in 2013, the Department has focused on exploring alternative therapies to narcotic painkillers for treating chronic pain. But achieving the balance between providing adequate pain care and compassionately weaning veterans off of powerful painkillers remains an issue. According to media reports based on Department of Veterans Affairs data, VA prescriptions for the opiates hydrocodone, oxycodone, methadone and morphine rose 270 percent between 2001 and 2012. ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta and 170 House Republicans petitioned the Supreme Court to “vacate in its entirety” the Obama Administration’s sweeping new regulations of the country’s energy sector – regulations the Court halted this month in an unprecedented move to check executive power. Thirty-four senators joined the amicus brief, or petition, responding to a lawsuit by 27 states against the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “When Democrats controlled Congress, the President and his party could not pass cap-and-trade legislation, failing to generate enough popular support,” said Rep. Guinta, announcing his support. “Now in a lame duck year, the President and the EPA are bypassing Congress to enact job-killing regulations.” Senators Mitch McConnell and Jim Inhofe requested Rep. Guinta’s support of the amicus brief, asserting Congress’ power under the Constitution to make law, specific limitations on the EPA, as well as the federal agency’s failure to comply with previous Supreme Court decisions. Supporters also say the EPA failed to present compelling environmental and economic rationales for changes to standing law. A congressional study indicates the EPA’s proposed “Clean Power Plan” could cost American consumers up to $79 billion in total higher energy costs, annually. New Hampshire’s energy costs are some of the highest in nation, said Rep. Guinta, who voted last year to cancel the EPA’s proposed regulations. “Granite Staters struggling in this slow economy are depending on affordable energy,” he said. “An obsolete line in an obscure passage of federal law does not give the EPA authority to dictate our national economy.” “New rules could render New Hampshire’s own legislative authority meaningless.” On February 9, the Supreme Court voted 5-4 to block the rules, intervening in a lower court’s decision. The recent death of Justice Antonin Scalia complicates a final ruling. The Court could delay hearing State of West Virginia, et. al. v. Environmental Protection Agency or allow the EPA’s power plant regulations to move forward. ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At a White House press conference today, President Barack Obama announced his intention to transfer Guantanamo Bay terrorist detainees to locations inside the United States. Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement: “The President is taking advantage of his lame duck status to usurp Congressional authority and the will of the people. Bipartisan representatives have consistently denied him the right to transfer terrorist detainees from Guantanamo Bay to American soil. The Administration's plan to try the world's most dangerous terrorists in downtown Manhattan also failed. Congress must unite to prevent another reckless foreign policy decision from this Administration, which refuses to clearly recognize threats to the United States. Today, the President even refused to answer questions from the press.” ###
02.19.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement upon the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “Justice Scalia, the longest serving member of the Court, was a stalwart defender of our Constitution and Granite Staters’ individual liberties. He loved our country and legal traditions, clear in his opinions, displaying a deep understanding and passion for Americans’ inalienable rights. Known for his wit and forceful writing, his decisions will live on in his shaping of the Court. New Hampshire mourns his loss this evening. My heart goes out to his wife and family. ###
02.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Frank Guinta and Rubén Hinojosa, joined by over two dozen Republican and Democratic House members, are urging the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to extend its examination cycle for well-run credit unions to 18 months from twelve. “The number of credit unions continues to decline, down by nearly a quarter since 2008, due in no small part to overly burdensome regulations on the industry,” write the bipartisan members in a letter to NCUA Chairman Debbie Matz. “We strongly encourage the agency to implement a new extended examination schedule for credit unions to help your regulatory relief efforts.” The NCUA named 2015 “The Year of Regulatory Relief” – a year that ended with credit unions like St. Mary’s Bank in New Hampshire, the oldest one in the country, still waiting on a simple reform. “Unlike the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which monitors banks, the NCUA requires no legislation to move forward with a 18-month examination cycle,” said Rep. Guinta. The House Financial Services Committee member represents New Hampshire’s First District in Congress. “A mere 6-month extension would result in significant taxpayer savings and better responsiveness at the NCUA,” he said. In their letter, released to the public today, the 30 House members point out that, before 2010’s Dodd-Frank financial law, the federal agency followed an 18-month schedule that promoted efficiency and effectiveness. “Credit unions did not cause the financial crisis,” added National Association of Federal Credit Unions President and CEO Dan Berger. “As an industry, we are in extremely sound shape. NCUA should devote more of its resources to the limited number of credit unions that need help.” “We appreciate that Chairman Matz is open to a longer exam cycle and urge her to approve the change as soon as possible.” Rep. Rubén Hinojosa, a Democrat who represents Texas’ 15th District, also sits on the House Financial Services Committee. “Our community banks and credit unions are the lifeblood of local and rural communities," he said. "Credit unions, whose membership is made up of local residents, have a unique understanding of the communities in which they serve. “They help families purchase homes, farmers plant crops, and small businesses get off the ground,” he said. “Now that we have provided flexibility for banking regulators to provide an extended exam cycle for community banks, I think it’s time the NCUA use its authority to start planning for an extended exam cycle for well-rated, well-capitalized credit unions.” ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed a package of veterans-aimed bills yesterday, Rep. Frank Guinta joining his colleagues to support automatic cost-of-living adjustments for veterans, as well as tighter controls of Veterans Administration (VA) construction projects, prone to cost overruns. Veterans benefit increases, tied to Social Security increases, would no longer require separate Congressional approval to take effect. “Granite State vets shouldn’t have to wait to receive the same benefits as Social Security recipients, due to a gap in legislative action,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). “Our country made a promise to them, and we must keep it.” The veterans population in New Hampshire, where Rep. Guinta represents the First District, is higher than most states’. Last year, the Congressman introduced the SENIORS Act to grant vets a one percent COLA increase, eliminating wasteful federal spending to fully pay for it. For only the third time in 40 years, the Social Security Administration announced there would be no COLA increase in 2016. “A good example of wasteful federal spending is the cost overrun at the VA hospital in Denver, projected to cost $1.73 billion – triple the original estimate,” said Rep. Guinta. A bill in yesterday’s package of reforms would appoint an assistant Inspector General to investigate VA construction projects. Yesterday’s package also included a measure to more closely monitor progress at underperforming VA medical facilities. The Failing VA Medical Center Recovery Act would compel the VA to report to Congress its progress every fiscal quarter and to dispatch rapid response teams within 30 days to fix failing health facilities. CNN first reported the story of “secret waiting lists” at VA hospitals, where employees manipulated patient data to obscure long wait times. A Senate investigation directly linked as many as 1,000 veterans’ deaths to long wait times. “Meanwhile, in 2014, the same year a nationwide scandal broke,” said Rep. Guinta, “VA employees collected $142 million in bonuses. Congress is serious – more serious than the Administration -- about enacting change at the bureaucracy.” ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta, a member of the House Budget Committee, as well as the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement about the President’s proposed 2017 budget, which the White House introduced today: “The president, who has overseen a historically poor post-recession economic recovery, is proposing more tax-and-spend policies that have failed to produce jobs and growth. With Obamacare kicking in, the deficit will rise. The national debt is already $19 trillion. Proposals like a $10 gas tax will only further burden Granite State families, most of whom haven’t seen a raise in years. Average incomes are down. It's time for a dramatic break with the status quo -- not more of the same. “As the newest member of the Budget Committee, I'm working with House colleagues to develop a better plan, one embracing principles of economic freedom – lower taxes, spending, and regulation – that will produce far superior results than the negligible growth rate last quarter. The unemployment rate ignores the millions who have dropped out of the labor market, and those working part-time jobs to survive. With the right leadership and policies in place, we’ll grow the shrinking middle class and begin a new era of prosperity.” Rep. Guinta is the former two-term mayor of Manchester, New Hampshire, who introduced zero-based budgeting, as well as four consecutive balanced budgets, and cut taxes for the first time in a decade. ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, officials from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CPB), and the State Department addressed members of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, informing them about federal efforts to stop international production and trafficking of heroin and other drugs. Most heroin crosses to the United States from Mexico, reports the DEA. Rep. Frank Guinta (NH01), who co-founded the Bipartisan Task Force and chaired today’s briefing, said that “lax border security is resulting in a flood of cheap, deadly heroin as far north as New Hampshire,” whose First District he represents in Congress. More than 50 Republican and Democrat House members have joined the Task Force, which Rep. Guinta formed last year with Rep. Anne Kuster (NH02) to address a problem that is worse in New England and the Midwest than other regions. According to a local study, New Hampshire has the third highest rate of drug overdose deaths in the country. “In the Granite State, one of every 3,000 people died of a heroin overdose last year. I formed this Task Force to get to the bottom of the matter, which is located in the heart of cartel country in Mexico,” he said. “The DEA tells me that the cartels there started planning their onslaught years ago, predicting a glut of over-prescribed opiates.” “My STOP ABUSE Act would crack down on high-intensity drug trafficking corridors – one of them runs straight through New Hampshire – and also interstate trafficking of legal medications that are hooking nearly every demographic,” said the Congressman. “The rapid spread of addiction has even become a central focus of New Hampshire’s First in the Nation primary race.” “I’m glad more people are paying attention,” he said, thanking Task Force members for their participation. They learned from federal law enforcement agencies about a growing supply of illegal drugs and often poor cooperation from foreign governments, many under the influence of well funded cartels. “The agencies are doing the best they can, intercepting more heroin, but the total flow has increased as well,” said Rep. Guinta. “We need to strengthen law enforcement at our southern border with Mexico, where 80 percent of drugs cross into U.S. territory.” Representatives Steve Knight (CA26), Patrick Meehan (PA07), Keith Rothfus (PA12), Lee Zeldin (NY01), Jim Bridenstine (OK01), Randy Hultgren (IL14), Lee Zeldin (NY01), Diane Black (TN06), Evan Jenkins (WV03), Donald Norcross (NJ01), and Barbara Comstock (VA10) attended the briefing. ###
02.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic will hold a Congressional Briefing tomorrow, Tuesday, in the Natural Resources Committee Room at 1334 Longworth House Office Building at 2:00 pm. Republican and Democrat House members will hear from federal interdiction and eradication experts from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Customs and Border Protection (CPB), and State Department, who will discuss international efforts to stop heroin production and trafficking: Mr. Kemp L. Chester OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY Associate Director of the National Heroin Coordination Group Mr. Louis Milione DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION Deputy Assistant Administrator Office of Diversion Control Mr. Richard Glenn STATE DEPARTMENT Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement (INL) Director of Western Hemisphere Programs Mr. Todd Owen U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION Office of Field Operations Assistant Commissioner The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that heroin addiction, overdose and death have doubled across the country, affecting Midwest and Northeast states in even higher proportion. Representatives Frank Guinta (NH01) and Anne Kuster (NH02), representing New Hampshire’s two congressional districts, formed the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic in 2015 to gather ideas and develop solutions to the growing nationwide problem. Task Force members scheduled to appear on Tuesday at 2:00 P.M. are Representatives Elizabeth Esty (CN05), Randy Hultgren (IL14), Patrick Meehan (PA07), Keith Rothfus (PA12), Tim Walberg (MI07), Lee Zeldin (NY01), Jim Bridenstine (OK01), Diane Black (TN06), and Evan Jenkins (WV03). LOCATION ON TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016: Natural Resources Committee Room 1334 Longworth HOB Washington, D.C. 20515 ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) released the following statement, after voting for a bill that would effectively stop the Obama Administration’s nuclear deal with Iran. The Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, H.R. 3662, passed the House of Representatives yesterday: “Since making a deal with weak leadership at the White House, Iran has become increasingly belligerent, more confident that President Obama will allow the terror-sponsor free rein over the Middle East, where American troops are in harm’s way. Iran has increased its kidnappings and even ballistic missile tests, in violation of U.N. resolutions. And now, the Administration has released $150 billion in frozen assets to Iran that Secretary Kerry says will likely fund the country’s aggression. As a result of the bad nuclear deal, the United States is in greater danger. I voted to prevent the President from lifting sanctions on entities helping to build to Iran’s terror industry.” Specifically, H.R. 3662 would require the President to certify to Congress that “designated nationals and blocked persons” have not provided services to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, its terrorist affiliates or nuclear weapons program, before lifting economic sanctions. Rep. Guinta is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, as well as the House Budget Committee. ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta voted with House Republicans to override a presidential veto of a bill that would repeal most of Obamacare, a primary driver of the country's national debt, which topped $19 trillion this this week. "The verdict is in," said Rep. Guinta. "The federal healthcare takeover is a budget buster, costing almost a half-trillion dollars more than expected. State insurance exchanges are failing. People are losing their health care coverage, many for the second or third time, due to constant disruptions.” "Employers are reluctant to hire in this hyper-regulated economy," he said. "It barely grew last quarter. For all the Granite Staters struggling to find jobs and provide for their families, I will not stop fighting to repeal and replace this destructive law." Although today's vote failed to meet the two-thirds House majority required to override a veto, the Congressman said he was proud of the effort and promised to continue his work. "The President no longer has Harry Reid to protect him from unpopular decisions," said Rep. Guinta, whom the House Budget Committee added to its membership today. "And soon, we'll no longer have President Obama standing in the way of more personal choice and affordability for Granite Staters, as well as all Americans, who should have the power to make their own health care decisions.” On Thursday, the Congressman is scheduled to attend his first hearing of the House Budget Committee, a review of rising federal health care spending that in 2015 grew to exceed Social Security costs for the first time. ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Budget Committee named Congressman Frank Guinta its newest member today, with House Republicans voting unanimously in support. Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price welcomed his new colleague. “Congressman Guinta brings a record of fighting for common-sense solutions that will help grow our economy and create jobs. His knowledge and experience will be important parts of our work, putting our fiscal house in order and getting our economy moving,” said Rep. Price (GA06). “We welcome Frank back to the Committee – and to the battles ahead to restore fiscal responsibility in Washington.” "I'd like to thank my friends for placing their trust in me," said Rep. Guinta (NH01), who as Manchester, New Hampshire’s former mayor, introduced four consecutive balanced budgets, cut taxes for the first time in a decade, and brought zero-based budgeting to the city. This will be his second appointment to the Budget Committee. Rep. Guinta served on the Committee in the 112th Congress. "I look forward to joining Mr. Price and fiscal conservatives to scour the federal budget for savings, in order to return hardworking Americans value on their tax dollars," he said. Every year, the House Budget Committee creates a 10-year budget plan that guides federal spending, a power granted to Congress under the Constitution. "We'll also be looking at ways to reform the budget process, whose complexity has contributed to a series of crises, resulting in temporary fixes and higher spending," said Rep. Guinta, also a member of the House Financial Services Committee. The national debt reached $19 trillion this week, a doubling under the Obama Administration in just over seven years. A primary driver of the debt is Obamacare, explained Rep. Guinta. He praised the Budget Committee's 2016 plan, which repealed Obamacare, balanced over ten years, and formed the basis of the first joint House-Senate agreement in five years. "Obamacare fails on both counts – delivering superior health care and budget discipline to grow the economy. The health care law raids Medicare to pay for itself," said Rep. Guinta. "I'm committed to securing seniors' health and retirement programs, while promoting more flexibility, innovation and opportunity for Granite Staters." ###
01.21.2016	MANCHESTER, NH -- PillPack, a New Hampshire pharmaceutical start-up, employing over 200 Granite Staters, welcomed Congressman Frank Guinta to its Manchester offices today. The company, a high-tech pharmacy, which pre-sorts and delivers customized prescriptions and vitamins to patients nationwide, recently raised $50 million in venture capital to expand its e-commerce business, as well as brick-and-mortar locations. “New Hampshire is increasingly becoming home to the country’s most innovative start-ups, including PillPack, distinguishing itself for its novel approach to the marketplace and personalized service to patients, looking for quick access to accurate prescriptions,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). The Congressman, Manchester’s former mayor, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. “By reducing confusion – separating and labeling individual doses – PillPack is also helping to improve consumer safety,” he said. “That’s important in the midst of an addiction crisis, which for many starts with over-prescribed opiates.” “PillPack is ensuring proper delivery,” said Rep. Guinta. “We invited Congressman Guinta to see our advanced operations and are excited about his leadership and support in Congress,” said CEO T.J. Parker, a pharmacist by training and Internet entrepreneur, who co-founded the start-up company in 2013. “He understands PillPack’s unique offerings and technology, which have helped us grow into a best-in-class pharmacy,” said Parker. “Frank has been a real champion for our employees and customers.” The Congressman spoke about his efforts to decrease federal taxes and regulations, in order to increase competition, as well as PillPack’s ability to expand to more regions. “Bureaucratic red tape between PillPack and patients with chronic medical conditions is hampering their treatment,” he explained. “I’m doing everything I can in Congress to reduce health care monopolies and costs, while advancing Granite State jobs and progress.”
01.21.2016	MANCHESTER, NH -- Rep. Frank Guinta is in New Hampshire this week, before he travels again to Washington, D.C., for legislative responsibilities, requiring him to be in the capital six of the first eight weeks of the year. "When I'm home, I get a refresher course in common sense,” he said. “In Washington, that seems to decline, as taxes and debt increase.” "I'm grateful for every opportunity to learn more about Granite Staters' work and how I can help small businesses and non-profits succeed," he said. Yesterday in Rochester, Rep. Guinta toured manufacturer Phase 2 Medical and non-profit Hope on Haven Hill. With Phase 2 Medical, the Congressman discussed his efforts to repeal a federal tax on medical devices, “a great example of how government can smother innovation,” he said. “The Congressman was enthusiastic to get into the field and hear the voice of the people,” said Adam Prime, President of Phase 2, which manufactures packaging and disposable devices. “We’re a small and growing company, creating good jobs in New Hampshire, and appreciate his support.” Rep. Guinta also visited Hope on Haven Hill, an addiction recovery center. "Heroin addiction and overdose are particularly bad in New Hampshire. We need to bring together charities and every level of government to solve the problem," he said. Rep. Guinta formed the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic and introduced the STOP ABUSE Act to improve treatment, prevention and law enforcement. “Numbers don’t tell the whole story. Today at Hope on Haven Hill, recovering addicts described their struggles. They drove home the importance of working together to help more people recover. Kerry Norton, Co-founder of Hope on Haven Hill, explained that the new location will double the number of available beds for Granite State mothers, when the charity soon receives its license. “I look forward to teaming with Congressman Guinta on an issue that’s near and dear to our hearts,” she said. ###
01.20.2016	MANCHESTER, NH – Congressman Frank Guinta issued the following statement today, after the U.S. Supreme Court announced it would review President Obama’s decision to grant work permits and government benefits for up to 5 million illegal immigrants, under the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program, as well as an expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA): “Our system of checks and balances, designed to prevent abuse by any one branch of government, is working as our Founding Fathers intended: The Supreme Court will decide the constitutionality of the President’s executive orders to legalize almost 5 million illegal immigrants – orders that 26 states and several federal courts have deemed unconstitutional, violations of federal law. More broadly, the Court will decide whether the Constitution’s requirement that the President ‘shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed’ applies to President Obama and his successors. “The President entered office promising to reign in executive powers. He has said he lacks authority to unilaterally change our country’s immigration laws. Yet numerous times, facing popular resistance, the President has circumvented our democratic institutions to implement his policies. In the case of these immigration orders, the Administration failed even to properly notify the public. As it has on many occasions, I’m confident the Court will find against the President’s overreach – in favor of a majority of states, Congress and the American people. Granite Staters deserve safe and secure borders. Privileges of U.S. residence should be reserved for legal immigrants, who endure the rigorous application process.” Rep. Guinta (NH01), Manchester, New Hampshire’s former mayor, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Representatives Tulsi Gabbard and Frank Guinta, a Democrat from Hawai’i and a Republican from New Hampshire, respectively, introduced the Veterans Administration Bonus Elimination Act today to help ensure timely delivery of care to United States military veterans. Their bill denies bonuses to senior Veterans Administration (VA) executives, who fail to ensure that veterans receive care within 30 days under VA guidelines. “It is unconscionable that senior VA officials are rewarded with bonuses, while hundreds of thousands of veterans across the country are still facing major delays in receiving the care that they need and have earned,” said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02). “Even after the VA scandal in 2014, veteran wait times have increased. In October 2015, the VA said there were nearly 500,000 veterans who were waiting over 30 days to receive care. The fact that the systemic problems within the VA that created this situation continue to persist is deeply troublesome. Those who are responsible for ensuring our nation's veterans get the care and services they need should be held accountable, not rewarded for their malpractice. This bill is a step forward in repairing our veterans’ trust.” “Bonuses should be rewards for quality work, completed on time,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-01), “but revelations of secret waiting lists and subpar care tell a different story about some VA facilities. Even after a nationwide scandal and legislation to fix the problem, securing an appointment remains difficult. The bureaucracy only reluctantly embraces reform. Our bill puts pressure on the VA to meet reasonable goals that Congress instituted by law.” “We should show the same commitment to U.S. military veterans that they have showed our country.” In 2014, whistleblowers at several VA hospitals revealed that employees often manipulated waiting list data to collect performance bonuses. Over a 10-year period, more than 300,000 vets may have died before receiving their appointments, according to reports. A Senate investigation directly linked almost 1,000 deaths to long wait times. In Hawaiʻi, veterans experienced the longest wait times in the country, averaging 145 days – almost five months – for a simple primary care visit. According to VA guidelines, vets should wait no longer than 30 days for an appointment. An internal audit found that over 120,000 vets waited at least 90 days, even after the scandal broke. That same year, the VA paid $142 million in bonuses, ranging from $500 to $13,000, to employees. “New Hampshire has one of the highest veteran populations in the U.S. but no full-service VA facility or military hospital,” said Rep. Guinta. “Granite State vets must travel far and wide to seek care. Congresswoman Gabbard and I teamed to introduce this simple measure to help them and other former military members get the service they deserve – on time.” Congress passed the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act to provide more doctors, staff and VA treatment centers, as well as to expand the VA Secretary’s authority to fire poorly performing employees. However, after 18 months and billions of dollars, the number of veterans on waiting lists has grown. Rep. Gabbard is a major in the Hawaiʻi Army National Guard and a veteran of two Middle East deployments. She is a member of the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees. Rep. Guinta, Manchester, New Hampshire’s former two-term mayor, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement, after attending the President’s State of the Union Address to Congress tonight: “The President’s address was an opportunity to look back on the last seven years of an Administration that promised national unity, economic recovery and peace, and to honestly assess our progress. Today, the United States, where a majority of Americans say our country is headed in the wrong direction, faces persistent economic stagnation and growing threats abroad. The broken promises and poor results, however, can help point us in a better direction – to a renewed commitment to policies of economic freedom and international leadership. While our problems may be great, our resolve is greater. New Hampshire, hosting the nation's first primary race, is already looking to the future. Soon, we will look at the last seven years as only a deviation, as Americans chart a new course to prosperity.” Rep. Guinta is Manchester, New Hampshire’s former mayor and a member of the Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade. He co-founded the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON -- Acting quickly to punish North Korean aggression, the House of Representatives today passed the North Korean Sanctions Enforcement Act, H.R. 757. Congressman Frank Guinta, a cosponsor, voted for the bill that would make economic sanctions on businesses and other entities trading with the rogue regime mandatory. North Korea announced last week successful detonation of a hydrogen bomb. "North Korea has possibly joined Iran in dangerous new weapons testing," explained Rep. Guinta. "While the President boasts about peaceful nuclear agreements, America’s enemies have other ideas and are taking advantage of his weak foreign policy to threaten the U.S." "Congress is re-asserting international leadership," said the Congressman. Specifically, H.R 757 denies entry to the United States any persons facilitating the North Korean nuclear program, targets banks that finance the dictatorship, and strengthens cargo inspections to detect illegal trade. The bill reinstates other sanctions that ended when the State Department removed North Korea from its State Sponsors of Terror list in 2008. "Previous legislation leaves the interpretation of sanctions up to the President, a risk we cannot afford to take," said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee. "Sanctions on North Korea, also waging cyber attacks against the U.S., should be strong and permanent, until the country ceases its aggression." Congress will vote on the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, H.R. 3662, later this week. That bill would restrict the ability of the President to lift sanctions on the Islamic Republic, after its recent ballistic missile tests in violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON -- Representatives Frank Guinta and Anne Kuster, founding members of Congress’ Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, held a Washington, D.C., briefing today to explore treatment methods that would improve addiction recovery rates. “Republican and Democrat members from across the country are joining us to prevent more Americans from falling victim to heroin abuse, often starting with prescription opiates and ending in death for tens of thousands,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). “For Granite Staters who have lost hope, my colleagues and I are trying to restore it – to direct more resources to a problem in desperate need of solutions. “I was proud to help convene today’s briefing with Congressman Guinta and the Task Force. I encourage our friends in the House and the Senate to take legislative action to help us put an end to the growing heroin epidemic,” Rep. Kuster (NH02) added. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that drug-induced overdose deaths – opiates and heroin responsible for most – were the leading cause of injury-related deaths in the United States in 2013, the latest year for which CDC figures are available. Since 2010, deaths due to heroin overdose have increased nearly 300 percent. The Task Force heard testimony about Methadone and Naltrexone, which can help addicts to avoid relapse, as well as psychological therapy, which can increase their chances of long-term success. “Communities are the key to recovery,” said Rep. Guinta. “We need to do a better job communicating the dangers, intervening in the early stages of heroin abuse, and monitoring addicts’ progress.” He introduced the STOP ABUSE Act with Rep. Kuster to strengthen local treatment, prevention and law enforcement programs. “A big part of our job on the Task Force is to collect and share information with constituents, who may need help or know someone who does. ” At the briefing, experts from the American Psychological Association, National Institute on Drug Abuse, and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services also addressed Reps. Bruce Poliquin, Jackie Walorski, Steve Knight, Elizabeth Esty, Keith Rothfus, Donald Norcross, Barbara Comstock, Ryan Costello and John Sarbanes. ###
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta voted this week to end cooperation between like-minded bureaucrats and outside interest groups, who shut the public and their representatives out of the federal rule-making process. The Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 244-173. Washington interest groups can negotiate behind closed doors with government agents to speed regulations without public input or funding authority. Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees prevents “regulation by litigation,” as Rep Guinta calls the practice, opening it up to interested parties in industry and labor, as well as consumer groups. “Those who benefit from ‘consent decrees’ are mostly regulators and special-interest lawyers in Washington,” said Rep. Guinta, “with a direct financial interest in more spending and regulation.” “I’m demanding a role for Granite Staters, who have a right to sit at the decision-making table.” New Hampshire’s First District Congressman also voted for the SCRUB Act, known as the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that Are Unnecessarily Burdensome Act. The bill would create a commission to eliminate federal regulations that fail to meet standards of due process and cost-benefit analyses. The SCRUB Act passed the House by a vote 245-174 this week. According to the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a pro-growth think tank, the current federal regulatory burden represents a $1.88 trillion cost to the U.S. economy – a $15,000 cost to every American each year. The Obama Administration has imposed more than twice the amount of regulatory costs as the previous one, according to the Heritage Foundation, which advocates limited government. The Hill newspaper reports 2015 was a record year for pages of federal rules and regulations, second only to 2010. “We’re being buried under mountains of red tape,” said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, who has introduced legislation to cut out-of-control federal spending. Rep. Guinta introduced the AUDIT Act to force Congress to adopt General Accounting Office recommendations to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse, potentially saving tens of billions of taxpayer dollars. “Washington doesn’t seem to live in the real world, where hardworking businesspeople and employees, including families and entrepreneurs, must budget responsibility and plan for the future.” “We’ve been waiting years for an economic recovery that has stalled, due to federal interference, a lack of understanding of how the economy really works. I joined my House colleagues to inject some sense into a short-sighted bureaucracy that needs it.” ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015, for the first time sending Obamacare repeal legislation to the President’s desk. “Granite Staters sent me to Washington to stop the President’s reckless regulatory agenda, which is costing them jobs, income, and even their health insurance, in the case of this failing health care law,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01), whose language to repeal Obamacare’s excise tax on employer-sponsored health care benefits passed in today’s package. “After years of rising premiums, in many cases set to rise by double digits this year, simple repeal would save struggling middle-class Americans a lot of money.” President Obama is expected to veto the joint House and Senate legislation. “But that doesn’t mean I’ll stop fighting for a better approach to quality, affordable health care for Granite Staters,” said Manchester’s former mayor. Rep. Guinta added that House members have introduced bills to replace Obamacare with “patient-centered reforms that lower costs to expand coverage to millions.” The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reports that provisions under Obamacare, which passed Congress in 2010 with only Democrat votes, could mean nearly 10 million more Americans will lose employer-sponsored health coverage. According to other reports, an estimated five million lost their individual insurance plans, when Obamacare first struck. Most new sign-ups are the result of Medicaid expansion. Still, the Department of Health and Human Services has announced that Obamacare sign-ups have fallen almost 10 million short of expectations. “A lot of the law’s assumptions turned out to be false,” said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee. “The price went from over $900 billion to almost two trillion dollars – from shocking to staggering.” Rep. Guinta also cited the President’s promise that “If you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan,” as well as his claim that Obamacare would save Americans an average of $2500 per year. Investor’s Business Daily reports that premiums have grown by an average of $4865 per person since 2008. The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 will proceed to the President via an expedited legislative procedure available to Congress once each year for budget agreements. The latest contains popular bipartisan measures, such as a medical device tax repeal and Rep. Guinta’s so-called “Cadillac Tax” repeal, which have garnered Democratic support. “Congress is starting the New Year right, fulfilling our pledge to do the people’s work,” said Rep. Guinta. ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Frank Guinta, responding to news that the President will issue executive gun control orders as early as this week, stated that “President Obama, facing his final year in office, has decided to completely disregard Congress to target Americans’ cherished Second Amendment rights.” Manchester’s former mayor added that the President’s orders are “a cynical political ploy to distract from his failure to protect the country or work with Congress on better solutions. Granite Staters will not support these actions, while crime and terrorism are on the rise. We have a right to self-defense, whether the President likes it or not.” Rep. Guinta pointed to bills that passed the House of Representatives late last year, including several to increase screening of Syrian refugees, strengthen border controls and develop a strategy to combat Islamic terror online. He indicated support for increased federal funding to mental health programs. “The fact is, nothing the President is proposing would have stopped attacks in San Bernardino or elsewhere.” “There are laws on the books that could help, if the Administration bothered to enforce them,” he said. Rep. Guinta is working on legislation that would require only a simple Congressional majority to override executive gun control orders. The bill would effectively block any order infringing on the Second Amendment. “The President’s attempts to avoid Congress signal he’s out of ideas, as he makes his way out of office,” the Congressman said. “Apparently, he feels no obligation to consult Granite Staters, who time and again have refused him power to remake federal gun law.” ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after voting “No” to H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016: “There are some provisions in today’s bill that I support. I’ve voted for them. In fact, I led the fight to repeal Obamacare’s onerous Cadillac tax, its medical device tax, an Internet service tax, and to increase funding to combat heroin abuse. Separately, these are good measures. However, tossed into a 2,000-plus page, $1.1 trillion omnibus bill, they are merely inducements to vote for more federal bloat and debt. Granite Staters sent me to Washington to reduce our $19 trillion national debt, burdening our struggling economy and children’s future. In keeping with my promise to the hardworking people of New Hampshire’s First District, I voted against today’s spending package, revealed only two days ago. I will continue to fight for openness and transparency, economic reform and greater opportunity for Granite Staters, who deserve better from their government. ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01), voting for today’s Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act (PATH) of 2015, said the series of tax credits for Americans “puts economic power in the hands of those who work hard, save and invest.” “Too often, mostly from federal bureaucrats and enablers in Washington, D.C., we hear that tax cuts are a cost to the government, whereas Granite Staters’ income is their own, the fruit of their own labor,” said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee. “It should be individuals and families who decide on their priorities, such as housing, education and entrepreneurship.” He noted several PATH Act provisions that permanently extend student and educator credits, as well as research and development credits, which Congress has renewed year to year, typically, until today. More research and development will spark innovation and job growth, said the Congressman, adding that permanence gives individuals and businesses certainty to plan for the future. “Companies should have a greater incentive to bring new medicines and technology to market,” said Rep. Guinta. “Education is the starting point.” The PATH Act extends tax credits for charitable contributions and hiring U.S. military veterans. New Hampshire has the 12th highest proportion of veterans in the country, according to recent Census data. Rep. Guinta listed other local benefits to the bill, which passed the House of Representatives on a 318-109 bipartisan vote. As a result of an employment tax credit, New Hampshire’s First District will retain an estimated $76.9 million locally. Granite State seniors will see a larger supply of affordable housing, as in Belknap and Rockingham Counties, due to federal housing credits, said Rep. Guinta. He praised a delay of Obamacare’s “egregious” medical device tax, which had been scheduled to take effect next year. The PATH Act reforms the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), specifically the tax-collection agency’s reported political activities. The legislation forbids private email accounts for public business and prohibits the targeting of nonprofit organizations for harassment. A House Oversight Committee investigation revealed that IRS agents may have singled out conservative and religious groups for special scrutiny, in violation of their constitutional rights. ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives yesterday passed the Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act of 2015, ordering the Obama Administration to produce a full report of terrorist organizations’ social media tactics and a strategy to combat them within 90 days. Rep. Frank Guinta (NH01) voted for the bill a day after the State Department admitted to ABC News that “something went wrong” with its vetting of Tashfeen Malik, an ISIS adherent who passed a background check, before killing 14 Americans in San Bernardino this month – despite the Pakistani national’s calls to Islamic jihad online. “It’s shocking that unofficial federal policy prohibits immigration agents from checking a visa applicant’s social media statements,” said the Congressman. “Public information would be an obvious place to look for warning signs.” “This kind of malpractice casts serious doubt on the Administration’s ability to screen thousands of refugees,” said Rep. Guinta, who voted for the American SAFE Act last month to halt a Syrian refugee program, until proper safeguards are in place, and the Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, more recently, to tighten loose border agreements with visa waiver partners, mostly European countries, where as many as 5,000 citizens could have ISIS links. “I’m even more convinced we need to slow down and take a hard look at our government’s resources and capabilities,” he said. “A committed and sophisticated enemy is searching for any possible weakness to penetrate our defenses, while political correctness seems to be eroding them.” ABC News reports that Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson refused to end an informal prohibition, even as federal officers warned that terrorists could be slipping through lax social media screening. Today’s legislation requires the Administration to evaluate online radicalization, recruitment, results, and to present a counter-strategy. ###
12.09.2015	MANCHESTER, NH – Rep. Frank Guinta (NH01) will host a Manchester town hall next Monday at the Carol Rines Center. “Seniors will learn about my efforts in Congress to obtain a Social Security cost-of-living increase for them,” he said. “They shouldn’t have to choose between rent and groceries. We’ll talk about the subject on everyone’s mind, recent terrorist attacks and the refugee crisis.” Rep. Guinta recently introduced the SENIORS Act to grant Social Security recipients a one-time, fully paid for cost-of-living (COLA) increase, after the Social Security Administration announced beneficiaries would receive none in 2016. The Manchester town hall will be Rep. Guinta’s 13th this year. It will be open to the media and take place at the following location: A Seniors’ Town Hall with Rep. Frank Guinta Monday, December 14, 2015 3:00PM – 4:00 PM AT: Carol Rines Center 1528 Elm Street Manchester, NH 03101 * Media should RSVP to Brendan Thomas at (202) 225-5456 ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Frank Guinta today voted for the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, H.R. 158, a bill from the House Homeland Security Committee that would thwart terrorists with Western passports attempting to enter the United States. “Radical Islamists are at war with us. They’ll use any means, including holes in our laws, to wage violent attacks against U.S. citizens at home. Congress is identifying gaps and closing them as quickly as possible,” said Rep. Guinta. The State Department’s visa waiver program allows citizens of 38 participating countries, mostly European, to bypass some standard protocols, a vulnerability in U.S. border protections, said Rep Guinta (NH01) . “There are at least 5,000 Islamic State fighters with Western passports in Iraq and Syria,” he said, “and we know the terrorist group plans to return them to places like Britain and France, where boarding a plane to the U.S. is easier.” Today’s legislation requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to report to Congress more potential high-risk countries, in addition to Iraq, Syria and several state sponsors of terror – a visit to which would disqualify a traveler to the U.S. from a visa waiver partner. The bill requires waiver partners to keep current records and share information, lost or stolen passports in particular. Rep. Guinta recently cosponsored legislation to pause the U.S. refugee program, until stronger security measures are in place. FBI Director James Comey testified to Congress that his federal agency lacks proper resources to screen every refugee. “Congress is always looking for more ways to improve Americans’ safety and security, especially after attacks in Paris and San Bernardino,” said Manchester’s former two-term mayor. He emphasized the Terrorist Travel Prevention Act is part of his larger agenda to protect the Granite State. A member of the House Financial Services Committee, Rep. Guinta also oversees the federal response to illegal terrorist funding. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta today voted for the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, Congress’ first long-term transportation funding bill in nearly a decade. The bill solves a series of short-term funding patches and would direct $875 million over the next five years to Granite State infrastructure projects. Manchester’s former two-term mayor called the FAST Act “a gigantic win for bipartisan House and Senate cooperation, reliable transportation and local economic development.” “Today’s bill accomplishes two big goals,” he said. “The FAST Act removes uncertainty from highway construction projects, stalling month to month due to federal funding lapses, and increases funding to New Hampshire roads, bridges and more by almost $78 million over previous figures. Finally, our state can commence work on our dilapidated infrastructure.” “We have over 100 red-list bridges needing repair,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01), referring to a Department of Transportation study that ranked New Hampshire 11th out of 50 states with immediate needs. “Yet we’re only the 44th largest state, in terms of size,” said Manchester’s former mayor. He explained that his state’s harsh weather wears on infrastructure. “On the other hand,” said the Congressman, “we have a growing economy in the First District, where Interstate 93 needs widening to accommodate more traffic.” He pointed to Portsmouth’s pre-World War II Sarah Long Bridge, which broke down in 2013, as an example of aging Granite State infrastructure requiring attention. The new legislation reauthorizes federal transportation funding until 2020. Awaiting a final appropriations bill this year, today’s streamlines federal agencies and regulatory roadblocks to construction, invests in safety technology and block-grants funds to states to increase local flexibility. The last such long-term reauthorization occurred in 2005. Elimination of federal waste offsets any additional spending, said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee. “There will be no new taxes,” he said. “Republicans and Democrats have joined together to do what previous Congresses have been unable to – to set our country on a responsible course into the 21st Century.” ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the support of Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01), the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday passed two resolutions of disapproval of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations that Rep. Guinta said would cripple the country’s energy sector and fragile economy. He pointed to studies showing energy costs in New Hampshire are some of the most expensive in the nation, discouraging new business and manufacturing in an area losing population. “New Hampshire needs dependable energy to increase its appeal to diverse industries, reliant on low fuel costs, and to attract young workers, leaving for friendlier economic climates. The Granite State exists in a competitive national and global business environment, drawing away our best and brightest, eager to work or start families,” he said. “New England is on pace to lose ten percent of its local energy output,” elaborated Rep. Guinta. “Renewable fuels have not caught up to demand. Cutting production further, as the EPA plans to do, would raise prices in our own state, especially, where we already have enormous per-unit energy costs. The Congressional Review Act permits Congress to override federal regulations costing $100 billion or more via an expedited legislative procedure known as a Resolution of Disapproval. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimates the EPA’s regulations could cost American homes and businesses $289 billion per year and 224,000 jobs nationwide. One would effectively prohibit new coal-power plants, the country’s largest source of energy. The other would institute a cap-and-trade system that Democrats, when they controlled Congress from 2008 to 2010, declined to pass into law. “I’m just as concerned about another Administration end-run around the Constitution and Congress – because the public expects its representatives to protect jobs and the economy, as well as the environment. I’ve fought to preserve New Hampshire’s natural resources and will fight to preserve low energy costs, too.” said Rep. Guinta. “We can do both.” A member of the House Financial Services Committee, the Congressman, the former mayor of Manchester, said new EPA regulations would have the heaviest impact on low- and middle-income Granite Staters, whose energy costs make up a larger share of their take-home pay. ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – For just the third time in 40 years, the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced in October that beneficiaries would see no cost-of-living increase next year, due to low fuel prices, driving down inflation. However, health care costs, a disproportionate amount of seniors’ expenses, are on the rise. To help vulnerable seniors meet basic needs, such as health care, housing and nutrition, Representatives Frank Guinta and Kyrsten Sinema – a Republican from New Hampshire and Democrat from Arizona, respectively – joined yesterday to introduce the SENIORS Act, a bipartisan bill granting Social Security recipients a one-time payment equal to a percentage point cost-of-living (COLA) increase. Also known as the “Saving the Earnings and Noting the Investment of Our Retired Seniors Act,” their legislation eliminates wasteful federal spending to achieve a budgetary balance. “One third of Social Security recipients rely on benefits for 90 percent of their total income,” explained Rep. Guinta, adding that many shared concerns at a town hall in Merrimack in his First District. “Our SENIORS Act is a fiscally responsible solution to helping the elderly pay their bills, especially important as New Hampshire’s harsh winter arrives. No senior should have to choose between rent and groceries.” The Granite State’s elderly population is larger than many states’. “After a lifetime of hard work, Arizonans deserve to retire with dignity and peace of mind,” said Rep. Sinema (AZ09). “Thousands of Arizona seniors depend on Social Security to survive, and their budgets are stretched too thin. This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense, fiscally responsible solution that helps seniors keep up with the rising cost of food, energy, prescription drugs, and housing.” The two House members, who partnered in September to introduce the AUDIT Act, reining in federal spending, said their bill is the only bipartisan House or Senate solution that addresses the SSA’s recent decision – and the effect would be immediate. “I’m proud to offer this legislation with Congresswoman Sinema,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). “Under our SENIORS Act, U.S. veterans would get a similar cost-of-living adjustment to their monthly VA benefits and in way that would cost taxpayers no additional money. “We’re also asking heads of relevant federal agencies to present a formula that better reflects Social Security beneficiaries’ economic conditions, so more feel a sense of real financial security,” he said. “Past generations of Americans have worked hard and paid into this fund. We should do our best to keep our promise to them.” “I will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to strengthen Social Security for Arizona seniors and generations to come,” said Rep. Sinema. She is a member of the House Financial Services Committee with Rep. Guinta. ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Frank Guinta and Annie Kuster, New Hampshire’s two U.S. House members, held the first Congressional briefing of their new Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, which they created in October. “It seems everyone in New Hampshire has a personal story to tell about the devastating effect of heroin on our communities.” said Rep. Guinta. “Rep. Kuster and I organized today’s event to share some of those stories and the latest news and information from federal agencies. I’m pleased to report real progress, as well as greater public awareness. But we still have a long way to solve a rapidly advancing health crisis.” At a U.S. Capitol auditorium, they brought together personnel from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA) – federal agencies responsible for the country’s response to a growing heroin epidemic, which claims at least one life in the United States every day, according to Dr. Wilson Compton, Director of NIH’s Institute on Drug Abuse. “Today’s briefing was an important step towards establishing lasting solutions to end this terrible epidemic,” said Rep. Kuster. “I continue to see the impacts of this heartbreaking epidemic as I meet with affected communities and families across my district. And in conversations with colleagues, I know that this is a nation-wide epidemic. Conversations like the ones between our panelists today are vital, and I look forward to continuing this collective effort to make a real difference in the lives of those struggling with addiction and their families.” Fentanyl, a legal, synthetic opiate frequently manufactured illegally and combined with heroin, was the primary topic of discussion. Agency personnel said that, because coroners rarely test for common fentanyl, which is up to 50 times more powerful that its opiate cousin, the synthetic drug could be responsible for a large share of nationwide heroin-related deaths. Heroin-related overdoses and deaths have almost doubled over the last ten years across the U.S. In the Midwest and Northeast, including New Hampshire, the numbers are higher. In October, the CDC and DEA issued a joint public heath advisory, noting an increase in pure fentanyl abuse. New Hampshire and neighboring Massachusetts rank in the DEA’s top-ten states by fentanyl seizures. Ohio ranks first. Due to the Granite State’s small size and proximity to other high-intensity drug-trafficking areas, Rep. Kuster emphasized the federal government must tightly control drugs moving across state lines. Kemp Chester, Chief of the ONDCP’s Heroin Coordination Group, said federal and state controls have successfully diminished the spread of prescription opiates like OxyContin and Oxycodone. However, with four out of five heroin addicts having initially experimented with such legal prescription drugs, he expects even more to migrate to street heroin as a substitute. SAMSHA’s Robert Lubran mentioned several new therapies to treat overdose and addiction. This year, Rep. Guinta introduced legislation to increase patients’ access to the potentially life-saving medication Naloxone. He and Rep. Kuster also introduced the STOP ABUSE Act in November to strengthen federal law enforcement, treatment and prevention measures. Their Bipartisan Heroin Task Force counts over 40 Republican and Democratic members. Nearly 100 House members and staff attended today’s briefing. “In my 18 years as a police officer,” said Congressman Steve Knight of California, “I saw firsthand the damage that heroin and other drugs inflict on families and communities. The heroin epidemic is a serious problem across this nation—from New Hampshire to California—and I want to thank Congressman Guinta and Congresswoman Kuster for their work on this important issue.” ###
11.20.2015	MANCHESTER, NH – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) convened a meeting today for New Hampshire credit unions with the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), the federal regulator that oversees their shrinking business, due, they say, to the independent agency’s increasing authority outside Congressional control. NCUA Chairwoman Debbie Matz traveled to New Hampshire for the event. “It was an opportunity for community lenders to voice their concern about an overreaching Washington agency, hurting small Granite State banks and economies,” said Rep. Guinta. “We pressed Chairwoman Matz to stay true to her agency’s promised Year of Regulatory Relief. So far, results have been meager." Non-profit credit unions provide financial credit to geographic areas or similar industries. 2010’s Dodd-Frank law allows the NCUA to regulate them like big banks with more resources. As a result, credit unions have shrunk in number, consolidating to cope with government demands, leaving small and rural communities, in particular, with fewer options. “Credit is still hard to come by for Granite Staters seeking home, business and car loans. It’s a constant refrain I hear from my constituents and also nationally,” said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee and its Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. “Dodd-Frank and the Administration’s execution has helped Wall Street to the detriment of Main Street, where many middle-class Americans have not recovered from the economic downturn. Ten percent higher compliance costs at community financial institutions are undercutting their ability to offer low rates and personal service.” Rep. Guinta said the NCUA is part of a trend of concentrating power in Washington, D.C. “Like other independent agencies, the NCUA receives funding through industry fees, rather than through an open Congressional appropriations process. The danger is bureaucrats there might believe they are above reproach.” He elaborated that, under its current leader, the agency has never held a budget hearing or published an advance copy of its budget, which has grown at a double-digit rate. Credit unions in Manchester, Portsmouth, Nashua and Rochester attended today’s event, which the New Hampshire Credit Union League helped to organize. “New Hampshire is home to the nation’s first credit union,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor. “We’re making sure our tradition of local banks with local understanding continues.”
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Frank Guinta’s legislation to protect car buyers from higher loan rates received significant bipartisan support in the House of Representatives today. “I’m happy that both Democrats and Republicans have rallied around my bill, which would help qualified car buyers to purchase vehicles,” he said, announcing passage of his CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act, H.R. 1737. More than 160 House members, including 65 Democrats, cosponsored his legislation, requiring the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to rescind its plan to regulate the auto-financing market, a maneuver that 2010’s Dodd-Frank financial reform prohibits. “Middle-class families need today’s bill to lower expenses. Granite Staters traveling to work or looking for new jobs are depending on affordable transportation,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor and a current member of the House Financial Services Committee. “If the CFPB truly cares about policies in the best interests of consumers, the agency should reissue guidance that is clear, fair and respects due process,” said the Congressman, who explained the CFPB’s action could result in a higher flat rate for most car buyers. “My bill would open the CFPB’s data to neutral experts and the public, solicit comments according to normal procedure, and require more economic study of the CFPB’s rush to regulate an important economic sector.” A number of consumer and industry groups support the New Hampshire congressman’s solution, which he introduced earlier in 2015, saying it would save Americans millions of dollars annually. The U.S. Consumer Coalition, National Automobile Dealers Association, Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Motorcycle Industry Council, American Financial Services Association and others have announced support. “I meet frequently with Granite State car dealers and buyers, as well as community lenders, who tell me the CFPB will ruin their businesses and budgets,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). He explained the CFPB’s guidance would harm many whom the agency claims to represent. “Minority dealers and buyers will bear the brunt of new federal regulations, which is why Members representing diverse constituents voted for my bill." H.R. 1737 passed the House by a vote of 332-96, including 88 Democrats voting in favor. ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) joined bipartisan Senate and House members today to send a letter to President Barrack Obama with the aim of repealing Obamacare’s excise tax – the so-called “Cadillac Tax” – on employer-sponsored health care benefits. The coalition requests a meeting with the President “as soon as possible” to repeal the tax by the end of the year. The 40-percent tax on high-deductible insurance plans, whose values exceed $10,200 for individuals or $27,000 for families, could affect millions of Americans, who could pay an average tax increase of more than $1,00 per year, in addition to higher premiums, as employers pass on expenses to their employees. “The cost of this excise tax, Obamacare’s main revenue source, will only go up, as health care costs rise,” said Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee. The Congressman explained, “The excise tax’s burden on middle-class families with children, its effect on both the private and public sectors – everyone from labor unions to corporate workers – is the main reason the Administration delayed its implementation until 2018. It would have been economically disastrous then and would be as harmful today as tomorrow.” “New Hampshire employers, including municipalities in the First District, are already planning for cost hikes and may be forced to terminate benefits or even employees,” said Rep. Guinta. “People across a range of experience and income levels have come to me asking for repeal of this tax, one of many Obamacare provisions hurting Granite State jobs and industry.” This year, Rep. Guinta was the first member of Congress to introduce a standalone repeal of Obamacare’s excise tax on employer health care benefits. His “Ax the Tax” legislation has attracted over 100 Republican members, leading the Obamacare reform effort. “Democrats are hearing from their constituents, too, equally concerned about taxes and regulations putting downward pressure on family finances.” “I am happy to join bipartisan, bicameral colleagues to bring relief to millions across the country struggling to pay bills – or to understand why their health benefits have become a target.” U.S. Senators Dean Heller (R-NV), Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM), as well as Representatives Joe Courtney (D-CT) and Guinta, signed today’s letter to the President, who has ruled out changes to his signature health care reform. “We ask that you commit to working with us and the bipartisan and bicameral coalition we represent to address the importance of repealing this tax and reducing the burden on working Americans,” write the members of Congress to the President. Their signed letter is attached. ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Urging her to take stronger measures to protect New Hampshire, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) writes in a letter to Governor Maggie Hassan that she should follow the example of more than half of United States governors, who have decisively rejected relocation of Syrian refugees to their states. "The Governor seems to have joined Republicans in defying Obama Administration policy but has not gone as far in the interests of Granite Staters,” said Rep. Guinta, releasing an open letter yesterday. "Calling on the president to stop the flow of thousands of Syrians to the U.S. is a moot point. Thousands are already here." "The Administration simply cannot provide assurances, which Governor Hassan is seeking, that ISIS members are not among them.” According to reports, at least one member of the ISIS terrorist group hid among refugees to Europe in order to wage attacks that killed over 100 civilians in France last week. ISIS, or Islamic State, controls large parts of Iraq and Syria, and has announced its intention to infiltrate the West in a flood of refugees. In his letter, Rep. Guinta warns Gov. Hassan that, according to the FBI director's testimony to Congress, "the federal government does not have background information necessary to conduct proper security checks of Syria and Iraqi nationals," with potential links to ISIS. "The United States has a proud tradition of opening its arms to those in need. However, with the current conflicts raging across the Middle East, we cannot be certain that individuals fleeing violence in Iraq and Syria pose no threat to Americans," writes the Congressman. Manchester’s former mayor is a signatory to a bipartisan letter to President Obama, which calls for a complete halt to the flow of Syrian refugees to the U.S. Also, he cosponsored legislation this week to prevent the President from admitting more refugees, until the White House changes its approach, which should begin with a clear recognition of the danger, Rep. Guinta said. ###
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta today called on the Obama Administration to halt the flow of Syrian refugees to the United States, until national security agencies have properly vetted them for ties to radical Islamic groups. “We can’t take the risk of even one potential threat entering our country, not after the carnage of Paris,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). According to reports, a member of the terrorist group ISIS claimed refugee status to enter France and helped to stage a bloody attack that killed over 100 civilians and wounded over 300. Rep. Guinta said the information underscores the need for greater scrutiny of refugees attempting to enter the U.S. “We’re the most generous people in the world, giving billions in support of freedom and democracy and aid to refugees,” said the House Financial Services Committee member, “but President Obama has demonstrated a dangerous lack of understanding about the true nature and aims of ISIS. The terrorist army occupies large parts of the Middle East and has stated the intention to kill Americans where we live.” “A president who cannot define radical Islam cannot possibly vet thousands of refugees for radical Islamists,” said Rep. Guinta, pointing out the Administration’s refusal to employ the term or to speculate about perpetrators of the Paris attacks, despite available evidence. “Hours before ISIS conducted one of its biggest operations, the President claimed to have contained the threat. He’s admitted to having no strategy. So it’s up to Congress to fill the leadership void and protect our homeland, while we also maintain humanitarian efforts.” The Congressman has signed a bipartisan letter to President Obama calling for an immediate stop to admissions of Syrian refugees. He supports legislation requiring Congressional approval of refugee levels and thorough FBI and Department of Homeland Security background checks. ###
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) has issued the following statement: "The terrorist group ISIS has claimed responsibility for attacks on civilian targets -- a soccer match, restaurants and a concert hall -- that killed over 100 innocent people in Paris last night. Granite Staters are shocked and saddened by the brutality. Our hearts go out to the victims, their families and France, which experienced a similar state of siege earlier this year in the City of Light. We experienced our own tragedy here in America on 9/11 and stand united with France and freedom-loving nations everywhere in condemnation of Islamic terror and resolute in defense of liberty and democracy. I join the President and members of Congress to offer the support of the United States to the French people, in order to help secure their safety and security." Rep. Guinta is the former mayor of Manchester and a current member of the House Financial Services Committee. He recently voted for the National Defense Appropriations Authorization, which provides funding to global anti-terror operations. ###
11.12.2015	MANCHESTER, NH. -- Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) issued the following statement today, Veterans Day: “We're lucky in New Hampshire, home to so many United States military veterans, our friends and family, men and women who have spent their lives defending our country. I met many yesterday at the New Hampshire Veterans Home and reflected on their service today at our state's veterans cemetery. Veterans Day is a special day to thank them, as my family and I always do, and to remember our promise to help them, as they have helped us at home and abroad. In Congress, I'm fighting to ensure they receive quality health care and access to good-paying jobs. Their concerns and ideas are the foundation of my work in Washington, making government more accountable and effective.” Rep. Guinta, the former mayor of Manchester, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. Last week, he introduced the Veterans Health and Accountability Act to provide greater private health care options to U.S. military veterans, whose advice, he says, was crucial to shaping the bill. He has introduced more legislation to solve inadequacies at the Veterans Administration, and earlier this year, cosponsored a bill to help low-income vets find affordable housing. ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta voted for the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform (STRR) Act of 2015, saying the six-year funding authorization would allow the Granite State to begin long-awaited infrastructure projects. "We have over a hundred red-list bridges in New Hampshire needing repair, starting with Sarah Long Bridge in Portsmouth, with its malfunctioning drawbridge," said Rep. Guinta. "We need to complete the Interstate 93 widening to meet our growing economy in southern New Hampshire. With long-term funding, these sites, as well as a spur near Londonderry and Derry, should finally see hardhats." Manchester's former mayor, a current member of the House Financial Services Committee, explained that the STRR Act ends a series of short-term fixes that have caused delays and waste around the country. "Previous Congresses, Republican and Democrat, have failed to find a solution to our crumbling highways," said Rep. Guinta. "I'm proud this 114th Congress has accomplished our goal in a bipartisan manner." Included in the bill is elimination or consolidation of six Department of Transportation offices to create a more efficient financing agency, responsive to public and private partners. States would receive block grants to pursue targeted local projects, and an overhaul of federal truck regulations would lift burdens on small businesses. Rep. Guinta pointed to enhanced safety and national security measures. "We're incentivizing new technologies to reduce traffic and collisions and improving emergency preparedness. Today's bill addresses our most pressing transport needs," he said, "especially the need to stop governing by crisis. We're paving the way to growth and jobs." ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) voted for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. The funding bill authorizes military aid to Israel and Ukraine and prevents the transfer of terrorist prisoners at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to American soil, as well as permits post commanders to carry firearms on base, in order to prevent terrorist attacks like the one that occurred at Ft. Hood in 2009. Releasing the following statement, Rep. Guinta said the bill would also protect taxpayers from government waste by streamlining procurement procedures and direct defense resources to the most important technology: "In the midst of increasing conflicts in the Middle East and Europe, where Iran and Russia are on the march, President Obama vetoed national security measures that support our armed forces and allies around the world. Today’s legislation provides for our common defense and gives our service men and women the tools they need to protect America, without having to worry about their next paycheck or benefits they deserve. As their leader, our Commander-in-Chief failed to do his part, whereas Congress, with today’s bill, is giving our troops peace of mind. We will keep a close watch on this Administration, which continues to lack a coherent defense strategy." This year, the House unanimously approved Rep. Guinta’s legislation prohibiting closure of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, which employs nearly 5,000 Granite Staters. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and its Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade. ###
11.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Frank Guinta today introduced the Veterans Health and Accountability Act to enforce and expand reforms Congress made to the Veterans Administration, after whistleblowers at the federal agency exposed secret patient waiting lists, where veterans died while waiting months or years for care. CNN reported that over 300,000 died before receiving approval for care. Rep. Guinta (NH01) said his bill is the result of frequent meetings with New Hampshire veterans groups, such as the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars and Concerned Veterans for America. "The Granite State has the eighth largest vet population in the U.S. but no full-service VA facility or military hospital," he said, urging constituents to submit their concerns to his “We the People” Initiative. He explained that his bill would remove distance and time restrictions from the Veterans Choice program, which Congress created to alleviate long wait times. Under the law, veterans living more than 40 miles from a VA center or waiting more than a month for an appointment may seek private care outside the government-run system. "The closest VA facility to New Hampshire is in Vermont. Even then, the bureaucracy can be impenetrable for sick vets with no time to lose," said Rep. Guinta. "We're giving them their time back, and hopefully in many cases, their lives back. Our country should honor its commitment to the men and women who have kept us safe. We should ensure they receive the care our country promised them." Rep. Guinta’s Veterans Health and Accountability Act also requires the VA Secretary to annually report to Congress progress towards reform. The bill protects whistleblowers who expose negligence and mismanagement from retaliation. A whistleblower in Phoenix revealed that VA employees there hid languishing patients from official records in order to collect rewards for timely service. Another in Atlanta revealed that administrators purposefully allowed benefit applications to expire. “Without whistleblower protection, we may never have discovered the tragedy at the VA,” said Rep. Guinta. “It’s vitally important these honest Americans follow their consciences without fear of reprisal.” In 2013, Congress passed the Veterans Access to Care Act to provide alternatives to the VA’s single-payer healthcare system, as well as to deny bonuses, raises, promotions or employment to Veterans Administration workers guilty of malfeasance. However, the Obama Administration has threatened to defund the Veterans Choice program. Many offenders have yet to receive punishment and remain on the job. "Constituents visited me in Washington as recently as last week to describe rot at the VA and to ask for my help. My bill increases pressure on the agency and the Obama Administration to enact reforms that are now law. It expands other reforms to finally break the bureaucratic logjam," said Rep Guinta. "If VA bureaucrats thought they could escape scrutiny once the nationwide scandal died down, they were wrong.” Rep. Guinta is Manchester's former two-term mayor and a member of the House Financial Services Committee. He has cosponsored bills to help veterans find affordable housing and protected the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard from shutdown last year. ###
10.30.2015	CONCORD, NH – As part of their new Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, Representatives Frank Guinta (NH-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-02) hosted a joint roundtable today to help solve New Hampshire’s growing heroin epidemic. The Granite Staters discussed their Stop the Overdose Problem Already Becoming a Universal Substance Epidemic (STOP ABUSE) Act, which they introduced in Congress this month. The expert panel in attendance provided feedback and outlined more steps that local law enforcement, support services and the federal government could take to assist individuals and families affected by opioid addiction. “During my time in office, I have seen opioid abuse rise to unprecedented levels throughout New Hampshire’s communities,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “And despite our best efforts, there is still no end in sight. We are on track this year to exceed the number of opioid-related deaths in the state, and as jarring as those statistics are, behind each number is a life lost and a family devastated by the death of a loved one. There is no single fix to end the growing heroin crisis, but I am proud to have introduced the STOP ABUSE Act with Representative Guinta as one piece of the solution. Today’s roundtable was a valuable opportunity to hear from experts about what else Congress, the state, and medical providers can be doing to better bring an end to the opioid epidemic, and I look forward to taking their feedback with me back to Congress, where I will continue to fight to support all measures that would bring relief to individuals and families affected by opioid drug abuse.” Rep. Guinta added, "Today's roundtable was an opportunity to hear from law enforcement officers and medical professionals on the front lines of a deadly epidemic. To do our jobs, Representative Kuster and I must hear their expert advice, based on frequent, personal interactions with sufferers of heroin addiction. The discussion was enlightening and valuable, emphasizing the immediacy of the problem, and has already increased momentum towards better solutions, which should focus on decreasing supply and demand for heroin, as well as improving addiction treatment. I'd like to thank participants for their contributions and hard work helping our state and families to recover." The STOP ABUSE Act establishes an Interagency Task Force on Heroin Addiction, reauthorizes drug crisis grants, and revises treatment guidelines for individuals ineligible for take-home treatment. Department of Safety Commissioner John Barthelmes, Chief Justice Tina Nadeau, State Police Colonel Robert Quinn, and other experts from the health care, law enforcement, and treatment fields joined Reps. Guinta and Kuster to talk about their legislation. The two have previously partnered on mental health and veterans initiatives. They say their latest partnership will help create lasting solutions for communities nationwide. Rep. Kuster is also a cosponsor of the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which would provide states with greater resources to combat abuse and create alternatives to incarceration. She is a supporter of legislation to help treat substance dependence in newborns and to allow Medicare to cover addiction treatment at community facilities. Additionally, Rep. Guinta introduced a bipartisan bill to increase patients’ access to the life-saving overdose medication Naloxone and cosponsored the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) released the following statement, after voting against today’s two-year House budget agreement, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015: “As I travel New Hampshire, talking to folks back home, they tell me they want a fiscally responsible government, which is transparent, accountable and helps to solve the real problems this country faces. Because it fails that test, I could not support today’s budget agreement. At a time when Congress should be addressing out-of-control spending, this deal, written behind closed doors and revealed just days before a vote, reverses the deficit reduction Congress has achieved over five years, does little to address federal entitlements, and nothing to reduce the size of government. “Republicans won control of the House in 2010 on a promise to reverse Democrats’ tax-and-spend policies and to restore fiscal sanity. While I agree with some of its provisions, this bill falls short. I look forward to working with my colleagues to rein in Washington’s excess and finally spur economic growth and jobs.” Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former two-term mayor, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. He is a member of the Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade. ###
10.27.2015	CONCORD, NH – On Friday, as part of their new Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, Representatives Annie Kuster and Frank Guinta of New Hampshire will host a joint roundtable discussion to help solve the growing heroin epidemic in their home state. The Representatives will discuss their Stop the Overdose Problem Already Becoming a Universal Substance Epidemic (STOP ABUSE) Act, which they introduced this month. An expert panel will provide feedback to the legislation and outline steps that local support services, law enforcement and Congress can take to help individuals and families affected by opioid addiction. The STOP ABUSE Act proposes a comprehensive approach to treatment and stopping the nationwide heroin epidemic, which Granite Staters have identified as the most important issue facing the state. The bill establishes an Interagency Task Force on Heroin Addiction, reauthorizes vital drug crisis grants, and revises treatment guidelines for sufferers of heroin addiction. Friday’s event is open to the press. Members of the media or public planning to attend should RSVP to Hannah Bassett at Hannah.Bassett@mail.house.gov NEW HAMPSHIRE HEROIN EPIDEMIC ROUNDTABLE with Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-02) Commissioner John Barthelmes – NH Department of Safety Colonel Robert Quinn – NH State Police Melissa Silvey – Continuum of Care Director, One Voice of Strafford County Patti Shea, MD – Director of Clinical Operations, Hampstead Hospital Kevin Keefe – Chief Environment of Care Officer, Westbridge Cheryle Pacaelli – Executive Director, HOPE for NH Recovery Hon. Tina Nadeau – Chief Justice, Superior Court Tim Soucy – Public Health Director, City of Manchester Molly Rossignol, MD – Addiction Medicine Physician, Concord Hospital Chris Adams – Chief, Laconia Police Department Bradley Osgood – Chief, Concord Police Department Mike Carignan – Deputy Chief, Nashua Police Department and others... WHEN: Friday, October 30, 2015 11:00 AM WHERE: New Hampshire Department of Safety, Room 112 23 Smokey Bear Boulevard Concord, NH 03301 ###
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta today voted for the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act that includes his language to repeal Obamacare's excise tax on healthcare benefits employers offer their employees. "When this harmful provision finally takes place, millions of Americans will see tax hikes, the loss of their employer benefits or even jobs, as the federal government increases Obamacare penalties," said Rep. Guinta, Manchester's former two-term mayor and current member of the House Financial Services Committee. He said that, since he took office in 2010, constituents in New Hampshire's First District have been expressing anxiety about the so-called "Cadillac Tax" -- a 40 percent tax on employer-sponsored healthcare benefits – which will take effect in 2018. "Businesses small and large, as well as municipalities across the Granite State, are preparing to drop coverage or workers," said Rep Guinta. "Especially in this poor economy, neither they nor middle-class families can afford more high costs." The reconciliation measure will travel to the President's desk via an expedited legislative process requiring only a simple Senate majority to pass, avoiding a Democrat filibuster. "We're keeping our promise to the millions of people who have lost their insurance policies, or even their jobs, who sent Republicans to Washington to stop the President's law from harming them further." The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reports that coming changes under Obamacare, which Democrats passed on a strict party-line vote, could mean approximately 10 million more Americans lose employer-sponsored healthcare coverage. According to earlier reports, an estimated five million Americans with individual insurance plans lost their insurance when the law first struck. Last week, the Department of Health and Human Services announced that Obamacare sign-ups have fallen a striking 10 million short of expectations. In addition to repeal of the excise tax, the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Act includes repeal of other unpopular Obamacare provisions, such as a tax on medical technology, a financial penalty for those who lack insurance, and automatic enrollment for those who fail to re-enroll in Obamacare. "The idea has always been to funnel unwilling Americans into another bloated, inefficient and ineffective government program that serves mostly Washington bureaucrats," said the Congressman. "With the freedom to make their own personal choices, Granite Staters will be better able to acquire the quality care they need at a price they can afford." ###
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Granite Stater Pam Rogers watched today as Congressman Frank Guinta introduced the Honor Our Fallen Heroes Act of 2015, a bill that would finally lay to rest her ancestor, a Union soldier who perished in a Confederate prisoner-of-war camp, with full recognition in a U.S. military cemetery. Ms. Rogers contacted her First Congressional District representative through his text and email platform – Rep. Guinta’s "We the People" Initiative – available to constituents to offer their legislative ideas. "Congressman Guinta seized an opportunity to help my family and probably more to bury long-lost relatives with the honor they deserve," she said. "Pam has done a lot of hard work to tell Private Zortman’s story. Now it's time for the VA to do its part,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). Rep Guinta and Pam Rogers at bill signing Records show that Private Samuel Zortman of Harrisburg, Pa., died at Georgia's Camp Lawton military prison in 1864, after his capture in Virginia earlier that year and a period at the infamous Andersonville prison, also in Georgia. A journal of his volunteer regiment, explains Rogers, details that his captors buried his remains in a mass grave, excavated and interred later at South Carolina's Beaufort National Cemetery. An empty tomb near his hometown lists Pvt. Zortman’s cause of death as starvation. "Even with all this evidence,” says Rogers, “the VA will not award a headstone to this young soldier, who died at age 21 in the worst conditions imaginable.” Due to a technicality, the VA will not award an individual marker to a soldier whose remains have been identified but who may have a gravesite, its exact location unknown. "My bill clears up the language, so POW'S like Private Zortman receive proper burial," said Rep. Guinta. “Our commitment to those who have bravely served should never end.” The Congressman voted for the Veterans Access to Care Act, providing military veterans with alternatives to struggling VA facilities, and has introduced a bill to prevent the Obama Administration from defunding the program. ###
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, the U.S. House of Representatives will consider legislation that includes Rep. Frank Guinta’s repeal of Obamacare’s “Cadillac tax” on middle-class families’ health insurance plans. A coming change under the healthcare law, which passed with only Democrat votes, could mean more Americans lose their insurance plans or jobs, as both public and private employers cope with a 40 percent tax on the health benefits they offer. “Granite State employers requested my help to turn back new levies on benefits they offer employees, to attract the best people and retain them,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01). “Municipalities are facing big new charges, meaning property tax hikes and probably termination of state and local workers. That’s why bipartisan members are supporting repeal of the Cadillac tax, one of Obamacare’s many failures.” A study from the non-partisan American Health Policy Institute shows over 12 million Americans will see an average payroll tax increase of $1,050 per year. Rep. Guinta’s Ax the Tax on Middle Class Americans’ Health Plans Act was the first stand-alone legislation to prevent higher taxes and job losses associated with the Cadillac tax. “Granite Staters’ concerns and counsel were crucial to shaping this bill,” said Rep. Guinta, Manchester’s former mayor and current member of the House Financial Services Committee. “I urge constituents feeling the pain of federal taxes and regulation to contact my office.” A vote to repeal the Cadillac tax could come tomorrow or Friday, as part of the larger Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which would end other Obamacare provisions, such as automatic enrollment, the individual mandate and medical device tax. “This law represents a shocking centralization of power in Washington, where bureaucrats are dictating Americans’ personal choices and siphoning income to federal agencies,” said the Congressman. “I’m committed to returning control to hardworking families.” ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Frank Guinta (NH-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-02), co-chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, jointly introduced the Stop the Overuse Problem Already Becoming a Universal Substance Epidemic (STOP ABUSE) Act. This bipartisan legislation presents a comprehensive approach to treating and stopping the heroin epidemic that is threatening states and communities across the country, including New Hampshire. “I am incredibly proud to introduce this bipartisan bill, which will support a deeper examination into what is fueling the heroin epidemic here in New Hampshire as well as across the country, and how we can come together to bring an end to opioid abuse,” said Rep. Kuster. “I have heard too many devastating stories about the loss of a loved one to heroin addiction during my conversations with Granite Staters. The legislation that Representative Guinta and I introduced today takes a number of critical steps towards establishing lasting solutions that will finally give individuals, families, and communities struggling with the heroin epidemic both hope and peace of mind.” “Today’s bill is the first endeavor of our Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic and will not be our last,” said Rep. Guinta. “Many House members on both side of the aisle, like Congresswoman Kuster and me, recognize the gravity of heroin abuse in their districts, especially in New England. The STOP ABUSE bill capitalizes on the best of their ideas, more from state and local governments, and insight from individuals and families affected by addiction. I heard their stories, as mayor of Manchester, and am proud to offer legislation in Congress to help save lives.” The STOP ABUSE Act addresses several aspects of combatting the growing heroin epidemic across the country, including the establishment of the Interagency Task Force on Heroin Addiction, the reauthorization of vital drug crisis grants, and the revision of treatment administration guidelines for individuals who are unable to receive take-home treatment, among other provisions. Representatives Guinta and Kuster have previously partnered on mental health and veterans initiatives and believe that their latest partnership can help create lasting solutions for communities around the country that are impacted by the heroin epidemic. Rep. Kuster is also a cosponsor of the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which makes broad reforms in the way the country treats addiction by creating alternatives to incarceration and providing states with additional resources to combat abuse. Additionally, she is a supporter of legislation that would help treat substance dependence in newborns and allow Medicare to cover substance abuse treatments at community treatment facilities. Rep. Guinta has introduced a bipartisan bill to increase patients’ access to the life-saving overdose medication Naloxone and cosponsored the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Frank Guinta (NH-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-02) jointly announced their formation of The Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. The nationwide public health crisis surrounding heroin addiction has grown dramatically in scope over the last decade, with particularly devastating impacts in the Granite State. The Task Force aims to develop best practices and foster interagency collaboration to address this growing heroin epidemic. “The Northeast and especially New Hampshire are on the front lines of advancing addiction, overdose and death in many cases,” said Rep. Guinta. “Congresswoman Kuster and I are spreading the word about this emergency, and we’re actively seeking ideas to help Americans of every class and ethnicity to resist and recover from heroin.” “The heroin epidemic facing our nation today is a byproduct of broader opioid misuse, abuse, and addiction that has taken hold in communities spanning all socioeconomic levels,” said Rep. Kuster. “As a country, we are faced with a formidable task of figuring out how we can bring an end to this epidemic. I am proud to join with Congressman Guinta to form this bipartisan task force, which will bring us one step closer to establishing comprehensive and long-lasting solutions to the heroin abuse threatening our communities.” The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that Americans addicted to opioid painkillers are 40 times more likely to become addicted to heroin. Almost 100 percent of heroin users have tried another drug; most have tried several. Heroin use has doubled among young demographics, including young females, and has grown among all socioeconomic groups. Reps. Guinta and Kuster are urging fellow House members to join their effort to reverse the deadly trends. “I’m almost sorry to say we’ll have a lot of RSVP’s to this new task force” said Rep. Guinta, “because heroin is such a plague. But we’ll need everybody’s help to produce better results. The federal government has a role to play in interstate solutions and interdiction.” Rep. Guinta, the former two-term mayor of Manchester, and Rep. Kuster, a former adoption attorney, have previously partnered on mental health and veterans initiatives and believe that their latest partnership will create lasting solutions for communities around the country that are impacted by the heroin epidemic. “We’re assembling the best ideas in Congress and will include them in a larger legislative package that we are preparing to introduce. I am pleased that this Task Force will be able to support the priorities of this upcoming legislation as soon as Representative Guinta and I introduce the bill.” said Rep. Kuster. Rep. Kuster is also a cosponsor of the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which makes broad reforms in the way we treat addiction by creating alternatives to incarceration and providing states with additional resources to combat abuse. Additionally, Kuster is a supporter of legislation that would help treat substance dependence in newborns and allow Medicare to cover substance abuse treatments at community treatment facilities. Rep. Guinta has introduced a bipartisan bill to increase patients’ access to the life-saving overdose medication Naloxone and is also a cosponsor of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. He added, “Congresswoman Kuster and I have decades of combined experience and different, valuable perspectives to bring to bear. I’d like to thank her for her compassion and partnership.” ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH01) is demanding answers from a federal agency threatening to impose new fees on struggling Granite State fishermen, already coping with a dramatic reduction of their catch, due to government regulations. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has proposed shifting the costs of its at-sea monitoring program to fishermen themselves in December, after pushing the date several times. “Where does the agency keep finding money to delay enforcement of a measure it recognizes could put New Hampshire’s last remaining fishermen out of business?” asked Rep. Guinta, sending a letter to NOAA Administrator Kathryn Sullivan today. He wants to know whether there could be another deadline extension coming and why the fishing industry must eventually pay to contract monitors, now NOAA’s responsibility. “This agency has an almost six-billion dollar budget but is ordering small, family businesses to pay its expenses,” said the Congressman. Manchester’s former two-term mayor and a member of the House Financial Services Committee added, “I have yet to hear a sufficient explanation. There are a lot of unanswered questions about this policy change, which could wipe out fishermen not just in New Hampshire but around New England.” Rep. Guinta introduced The New England Fishermen Preservation Act (H.R. 3661) last week to halt enforcement of NOAA’s order until the agency funds the at-sea monitoring program. “Considering how many times NOAA has delayed enforcement of new fees that will cost New England fishermen thousands of dollars each month, it’s reasonable to ask the agency to re-evaluate its finances. So far, it has underestimated its ability to pay and overestimated Granite State fishermen’s ability to comply with more heavy regulations.” In his letter, the Congressman asks if NOAA has measured the potential economic impact of shifting costs onto fishermen. He writes to Administrator Sullivan, “New Hampshire is home to a centuries-long fishing legacy, and along with Granite Staters I represent, I would like to see the industry not only survive, but thrive.” Rep. Guinta urges NOAA to collaborate with local citizens and their state and federal representatives. Rep Guinta letter to NOAA Administrator Sullivan.pdf ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta voted today for the 2016 Conference Report to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The House and Senate agreement authorizes funding to programs to combat ISIS, counter threats from Iran and Russia, and arm troops on base, while adhering to a balanced budget. The NDAA prevents the transfer of terrorist prisoners at Guantanamo Bay to American soil. Rep. Guinta (NH01) issued the following statement after his vote: “Protecting our national security is one of the most important of the limited duties given to our federal government in the Constitution. Without a common defense and personal safety, our rights mean little. Today’s defense authorization focuses our nation’s resources on the most serious threats to freedom and prosperity: ISIS terrorism and Iranian and Russian aggression. Bipartisan members have come together to present this coherent response. Importantly, our soldiers get a needed pay raise, and the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard some long-awaited infrastructure upgrades. ” This year, the House unanimously approved Rep. Guinta’s legislation prohibiting closure of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, which employs nearly 5,000 Granite Staters. He is a member of the House Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade. ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- With his New England Fishermen Preservation Act (H.R. 3661) today, Congressman Frank Guinta continued his effort to stop federal fees that could extinguish New Hampshire’s fishing industry. Just nine Granite State operators still fish the Gulf of Maine, where National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) regulations have reduced their catch by 95 percent, report members of Seabrook’s Yankee Fishermen’s Co-op. New fees, averaging over $700 per vessel every few days, could cost fishermen in the region thousands of dollars monthly. “These are small, family businesses,” said Rep. Guinta (NH01), a member of the House Financial Services Committee. “Many are struggling to stay afloat, due to heavy regulations that seem to change from week to week. Fishermen up and down the Northeast could be sunk, when NOAA finally makes good on its threat.” Rep. Guinta explained that under his bill “NOAA will continue to pay the costs of monitoring fishermen at sea, as the agency has for years.” Currently, NOAA pays contractors to accompany crews but has proposed shifting payment to fishermen themselves. The agency has shifted deadlines several times, recently from the end of October to December. In an email to congressional staff, NOAA regulators admit the change would be “economically challenging” for many. “It’s economically challenging that an agency with a several-billon dollar budget is demanding fishermen pay its operating costs,” responded Rep. Guinta. The New England Fishermen Preservation Act exempts Northeast fishermen from compliance with monitoring rules, until NOAA funds the program. Earlier this Congress, Rep. Guinta introduced the bipartisan Fisheries Investment and Regulatory Relief Act, which would re-direct existing federal money to U.S. fisheries and strengthen local control. ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Under pressure from seacoast communities and Congressman Frank Guinta, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the federal agency that oversees New Hampshire’s fisheries, will push back by at least one month new fees it seeks to impose on the Granite State’s few remaining fishermen. Rep. Guinta (NH01) said NOAA’s retreat from its proposal to charge New England anglers the cost of their at-sea monitoring, a cost the agency has typically paid, should be the beginning -- not the end -- of its effort to find other means to enforce its regulations. Already, catch restrictions have reduced Granite State boat operators to only nine. “What a change from a few weeks ago, when NOAA was taking a hard line against fishermen, struggling to feed their families,” said Rep. Guinta. “Its bureaucrats were threatening to terminate their business in the Gulf of Maine. Now, it seems they’ve found extra funds under the sofa cushions. They should keep digging into their billion-dollar budget and cancel charges that could end a centuries-old tradition.” Rep. Guinta speaks with the Yankee Fishermen’s Co-op in Seabrook Manchester’s former two-term mayor said he’s planning to quickly introduce a permanent legislative solution. “My constituents on the seacoast tell me they’re scared of their own government, trying to ‘force capitulation,’ one told me. They think they’ll face retaliation, if they go public with their situation. That’s why I’m here. We’re working together to stop this assault on a New Hampshire way of life.” NOAA originally proposed to shift the burden of contracting at-sea monitors to fishermen themselves in November. The figure could total thousands of dollars a month per vessel and still become reality in December. ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta, a cosponsor of the bipartisan legislation, applauded House passage today of the Protect Affordable Coverage for Americans Act. The bill would allow states to exempt medium-sized businesses from regulations under Obamacare that could raise millions of Americans' health insurance premiums by an average of 18 percent, starting in January. "The president has delayed the most destructive elements of his health care takeover until his last few months in office, when more Granite Staters will face crushing insurance premiums, or the loss of coverage, while he plans his post-presidency," said Rep. Guinta (NH-1). "But Congress has made clear that we're planning for a future without many of Obamacare’s burdens. Our bill would give states the flexibility to set their own health care agendas and allow more Americans to keep their insurance plans." In 2016, the president's health care law will re-define small businesses to include those with between 51 to 100 employees, exposing them to increased regulations already harming those with fewer employees. "In New Hampshire, most of our businesses are small businesses, suffering under Obamacare's thousands of pages of rules and regulations. I'm working to spare them these back-breaking costs," said Rep Guinta. ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Nationwide auto dealers gathered in the capital today to learn more about keynote speaker Rep. Frank Guinta’s solutions to their concerns about growing federal control of their industry, namely their ability to offer competitive financing rates to credit-worthy car buyers. “Customers expect dealers to forge relationships and offer good terms to attract their business,” Rep. Guinta, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, told more than 500 members of the National Auto Dealers Association (NADA). “But the CFPB thinks it knows better than professionals and the consumers it says it represents. It’s wedging its way into a complex transaction, raising rates and dampening sales in the name of fairness.” Rep. Guinta (NH01) explained that the agency, which receives funds directly from the Federal Reserve -- rather than through normal Congressional appropriations -- is ignoring the law that created it and standard regulatory procedure incorporating public input into new rules. 2010’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act guaranteed auto dealers would have flexibility offering financing terms. Auto dealers say that the CFPB also ignored their economic warnings about its drive to regulate indirect lending, a secondary loan market that allows them to offer low or no fees to responsible borrowers. Rep. Guinta’s bipartisan CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act ( H.R. 1737) would force the CFBP to retract its rules and “go back to the drawing board.” Peter Welch, NADA’s president, thanked Rep. Guinta for his help. “The Congressman has been instrumental in bringing bipartisan support to an issue impacting millions of Americans. They have a right to discounted auto-financing, which Congress should protect. Requiring the CFPB to re-consider its harmful guidance is extremely important. Mr. Guinta deserves a lot of credit for his leadership on this issue.” He thanked Democratic Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO07), as well, original co-sponsor of H.R. 1737 with Rep. Guinta. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta and St. Anselm College President Steven DiSalvo, his guest, will attend Pope Francis’ Mass today at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception at Catholic University in the capital. At the afternoon event, Pope Francis will canonize Junipero Serra, the Spanish Franciscan friar who brought Christianity to California in the 18th century. The New Hampshire representative and the leader of Manchester’s Catholic liberal arts school, known for hosting presidential primary debates in the Granite State, released the following statements in advance of today’s service: President DiSalvo: “Having spent my career in Catholic higher education, I feel particularly blessed to be invited to attend this Mass. I am excited to hear in person the words of Pope Francis, which provide inspiration every day to Catholics around the world, and to represent the thousands of alumni, students, faculty and staff members of Saint Anselm College who find comfort and grace in faith and in service to humanity in keeping with that faith every day." Rep. Guinta: “Pope Francis is bringing a message of hope to Americans, when many doubt our country’s direction. I expect his words to resonate with those of all faiths and to create more dialog about problems facing us and solutions, especially to growing poverty. Tomorrow, the Pope will also address a joint meeting of Congress, needing his spirited encouragement, as we work to find common ground. I’m proud to share the experience with President DiSalvo, whose school is an invaluable resource to students seeking careers in public service.” President DiSalvo’s St. Anselm College is home to the New Hampshire Institute of Politics and Political Library. Rep. Guinta (NH-1) is Manchester’s former mayor and current member of the House Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, as well as Monetary Policy and Trade. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-1) re-introduced the Great Bay Regulatory Improvement Act (H.R. 3615) to save a coalition of towns on New Hampshire’s Great Bay as much as $250 million, a cost that could severely strain their finances. “Towns on our seacoast face an enormous tab, because of an unfunded federal mandate, based on shoddy science,” he said. His bipartisan legislation would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to delay enforcement of its order that towns from Exeter to Dover add costly infrastructure to decrease nitrogen levels in the local estuary to three milligrams per liter from eight. Newmarket , Rochester and Portsmouth also dispute the more than 60 percent drop would reduce a threat to native eelgrass. “We’re looking at a dramatic tax increase to solve a problem that does not exist,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-1). Manchester’s former two-term mayor and current member of the House Financial Services Committee said that the EPA bypassed the usual regulatory process to enact its aggressive agenda. “We care as much about our environment as anyone, but we also care about our municipal budgets, jobs and the economy, in addition to legal due process,” said Rep. Guinta. The Congressman first introduced his legislation in the 112th Congress and said that he will not stop fighting federal encroachment into state affairs. “The EPA needs to listen to Granite Staters’ concerns and stop this reckless overreach,” he said. The New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services reports that EPA methods to justify new nitrogen requirements do not show sufficient linkage between Great Bay nitrogen levels and eelgrass growth. ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. --- Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-1) spoke to New Hampshire auto dealers today about their frustrations with Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) rate-setting policies, preventing dealers from lending to worthy borrowers at a discount. The Congressman’s CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act, H.R. 1737, would increase transparency and accountability at “an out-of-control federal agency,” he said. “The CFPB is running roughshod over the regulatory process Congress requires for all other government agencies. Although to be fair, the Administration has concocted this one to avoid responsibility to the public or its representatives,” said Rep. Guinta, a Financial Services Committee member. “My bill would rein in overzealous bureaucrats, who in an effort to police car purchases, are costing Granite Staters good deals.” Auto dealers have been able to offer those with better credit more competitive rates. “So much for low or no interest rates for qualified borrowers,” said Manchester’s former two-term mayor. “To cope with CFPB harassment, dealers are offering high flat rates to everyone, no matter their credit scores. Or they’re dropping out of the car loan business altogether, ” he added. His bipartisan Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act would require the CFPB to rescind current lending guidelines and conduct a thorough economic review, before issuing further guidance, allowing for greater public comment. “The CFPB has blatantly denied due process, excluding auto-dealers and customers from its decisions,” said the Congressman. Rep. Guinta’s bill passed through committee in July and could move to the House floor for a vote in October. Peter Welch, president of the National Automobile Dealers Association, praised the legislation. “As a matter of principle, consumers have the right to negotiate, the right to seek a better deal, and the right to choose the loan that’s best for them,” he said. “When you’re paying $30,000 for a car and stretching to do it, consumers should have every possible financial advantage possible.” ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, New Hampshire Republican Frank Guinta and Arizona Democrat Kyrsten Sinema joined to introduce H.R. 3534, the Auditing United States Departments to Insulate Taxpayers (AUDIT) Act of 2015. Their bipartisan bill aims to eliminate duplicative federal programs and wasteful spending the Government Accountability Office (GAO) identifies in annual reports to Congress. “Every year, Congress receives a comprehensive report about overlapping and redundant programs, which have likely ceased to serve their intended functions. And every year, copies land with a thud, as doorstops. Hardly anything happens,” said Rep. Guinta (NH-1). “I’m proud to partner with Congresswoman Sinema to finally address the waste these GAO reports reveal. Granite Staters deserve a more efficient government that delivers on its promises.” The AUDIT Act would require Congress to introduce legislation based on GAO findings and proposals. It would compel federal agencies to defend their programs’ merits in hearings before Congress, all within an expedited time frame. “It’s ridiculous that Congress continues to waste hard-earned taxpayer dollars on duplicative and unnecessary government programs,” said Rep. Sinema (AZ-9). “This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense way to cut Washington’s wasteful spending. I look forward to working with Rep. Guinta and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make government more effective and efficient.” The GAO estimates that addressing more of its proposals could save American taxpayers tens of billions of dollars in areas from defense to health care. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will consider H.R. 3534. ###
09.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta joined New Hampshire fishermen at their cooperative in Seabrook, N.H., yesterday to address their concerns about proposed National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) fees that could further cripple their suffering industry. New fees, in addition to several other issues raised, threaten to significantly diminish the capacity of Granite State fishermen to earn a living. “We have a long, proud fishing tradition in New Hampshire along our coastline,” said the Congressman, after his visit. “It’s the shortest on the East Coast, but our fishermen work the hardest and supply America with the seafood we love. But their way of life is declining. We must preserve it and good jobs that support Granite State families.” Local fishermen’s numbers shrunk by half this summer, according to NOAA personnel. Co-op members say their disappearance is due largely to NOAA regulations cracking down on what the agency terms over-fished of Gulf of Maine stocks. NOAA is proposing that remaining fishermen pay the cost of their own at-sea monitoring. Currently, the agency pays that figure, amounting to an average of $710 per vessel per day. “NOAA has decided to charge fishermen themselves for this unfunded government mandate, when most are struggling to make ends meet” said Rep. Guinta (NH-1). This spring, Rep. Guinta introduced the bipartisan Fisheries Investment and Regulatory Relief Act (H.R. 2106) to re-direct existing federal money to U.S. fisheries and strengthen local control. “We’re giving people more power and security, while making sure taxpayer money goes to its intended purposes,” he said. Also in 2015, Congress passed the Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing Enforcement Act (H.R. 774) and the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act (H.R. 1335). Respectively, the bills would increase oversight of foreign seafood industries’ possibly illegal trade practices and assist U.S. fishing communities to adapt to changes. ###
09.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Guinta joined a large House majority in voting against the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the President's nuclear agreement with Iran, which Rep. Guinta said does not go far enough to prevent the Islamic Republic from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The House also resolved this week that the President failed to provide Congress with full details of the deal, required under the Iranian Nuclear Agreement Review Act, and passed another bill to prevent him from lifting sanctions until 2017. Rep. Guinta challenged the President’s lax inspections and “side deals” with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to avoid scrutiny. "The Obama Administration has entered into a unilateral agreement with Iran without Congress’ assent or support of the American people, who overwhelmingly reject it, based on the limited information we have," said Rep. Guinta (NH01). "Despite the Administration’s secrecy, we are still discovering crucial details about Iran’s path towards a nuclear weapon. Reported side deals with the IAEA would empower Iranian leaders, chanting ‘Death to America,' to choose their favored inspectors and declare many sites off-limits. I take seriously my responsibility to protect and defend the United States. This president’s weak deal endangers America and our allies. I cannot support it," said Rep. Guinta. ###
09.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last night, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 1725, the National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting Reauthorization Act of 2015 and H.R. 1462, Protecting our Infants Act of 2015. These pieces of legislation seek to address the issue of heroin and opioid abuse. The first bill reauthorizes the national prescription drug monitoring program, while the second bill passed to combat the rise of prenatal opioid abuse and neonatal abstinence syndrome. “We must continue to work toward establishing an opioid prescription drug database that will allow pharmacies to monitor the flow of these highly addictive drugs across state lines. The over-prescription of these drugs has led to the spike in heroin abuse as users continue to seek a cheaper alternative drug to the expensive street value of prescription opioid narcotics. Toward that end, I also supported legislation that would combat the rise of prenatal opioid abuse and neonatal abstinence syndrome. With opioid prescription rates rising dramatically over the past several years, there has also been a rise of neonatal abstinence syndrome. These two pieces of important legislation play a crucial role in various aspects of the heroin abuse epidemic throughout the Granite State.” The Congressman is currently working on his own piece of bipartisan legislation to fight against the heroin epidemic in New Hampshire. Already this term, he has authored an amendment to increase funding for our nation’s drug courts, as well as cosponsored three pieces of bipartisan legislation aimed at tackling the heroin abuse epidemic. ###
09.03.2015	On Wednesday, the Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General issued a report stating 307,000 Veterans died before the VA was able to process their applications for care. In total, close to 800,000 veteran records were stalled in the agency’s faulty data system. The report goes on to detail the extensive mismanagement in the treatment of our veterans, and illustrates how the current system is failing the men and women who fought for our freedom. After seeing the details of the inspector general report, Congressman Guinta released the following statement: “The Granite State is home to our nation’s third largest veteran population, and we know all too well the difficulties veterans face transitioning to civilian life after duty; access to timely and quality healthcare should not be one of those difficulties. This report is a devastating reminder of how necessary it is to reform our nation’s veteran healthcare system, so that we can give back to our military men and women who have sacrificed so much for the freedoms we enjoy.” Earlier this year, Congressman Guinta introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure every veteran has access to timely, quality healthcare by making the Veterans Choice Card permanent in states without full service VA centers. Congressman Guinta also voted in favor of H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act will streamline the process of removing or demoting VA employees for poor performance or misconduct. H.R. 1994 passed the House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 256-170 and it awaits further consideration in the Senate. ###
08.26.2015	MANCHESTER, N.H. – Today, Congressman Guinta (NH-01) met with local representatives from the Alzheimer’s Association to discuss the importance of increased funding for Alzheimer’s; a disease that affects over 5 million Americans and is considered one of the fastest growing mental illnesses. “I know firsthand how our current system is failing those with mental illness and also where there are opportunities to strengthen our system. Around 30% of Americans are dealing with some form of mental illness as well as the financial challenges associated with caring for someone with a mental illness. Alzheimer’s is a disease the affects over 5 million Americans and as many as 16 million will have the disease in 2050. These numbers are unacceptable and I believe the proper funding should be allocated toward research in order to make advances in finding a cure for this devastating disease. I look forward to continuing to meet with stakeholders and devise the proper response to deal with this important issue” Congressman Guinta is a member of the Congressional Alzheimer’s Caucus and cosponsored two bills allowing for increased funding for Alzheimer’s research – the CURES Act and HR1559, the Hope for Alzheimer’s Act. Currently, in the Labor HHS House Appropriations bill, is an additional $300 million to be allocated toward Alzheimer’s research and if brought to the House floor, Rep. Guinta would support the increase in funding. ###
08.24.2015	North Conway, NH- Last week, Congressman Guinta visited locations throughout North Country, reaching a wide array of economically important projects to this vital region. The purpose of these visits were to allow the Congressman to see and hear firsthand the priorities and concerns Granite Staters have for their diverse organizations. Congressman Guinta made stops at Eastern Slopes Regional Airport, Mount Washington Observatory Center, Tuckerman Brewing Company, White Mountain Firearms, and finished with a Town Hall, his 11th of the term, in Ossipee. He heard from the owners of these businesses regarding the need to expand existing infrastructure, reducing regulatory burdens while creating an environment for expand growth and investment in order to hire more employees. “In New Hampshire, Main street businesses are the catalyst to a strong and growing economy. During these stops, I had the honor of meeting many hardworking small business owners that are fighting against burdensome government regulations in order to keep their doors open for business. These excessive government regulations place regressive and unnecessary burdens on the job creators that will drive our recovery and strengthen our economy. Government regulations are the single greatest burden to business owners and the greatest roadblock to prosperity. I will continue to fight for small businesses across this great state of ours!” Congressman Guinta has supported several legislative initiatives to spur job growth, while reducing the debt and deficit. He will take the lessons learned from these visits and seek to implement them in Washington. Please visit Congressman Guinta’s website at www.guinta.house.gov to find out more about the legislation he has sponsored, co-sponsored and voted on. ###
08.20.2015	North Conway, NH – Yesterday, Thursday, August 20, 2015, Congressman Guinta (NH-01) visited Eastern Slopes Regional Airport (ESRA) located in Fryeburg, Maine. ESRA is the only aviation access point for North Conway and the Mt. Washington Valley area. During his visit, Congressman Guinta met with a member of the airports Board of Directors, Carl Thibodeau, to discuss its existing infrastructure as well as participate in a detailed walkthrough of the airports future expansion plans. In addition to drastically expanding the region’s transportation infrastructure, this expansion, first expected phase to be complete in 2016, will also open the prospect for future investors to the North Conway area, thus boosting the local economy and creating more job opportunities for Granite Staters. “Within New Hampshire, the Eastern Slopes region and Mt Washington Valley is one of the state’s most popular tourist areas, but remains one of the least accessible for air travel with no New Hampshire regional airport inside a 50 mile radius. For the last 50 years, the Eastern Slopes Regional Airport has served both Maine and New Hampshire as an important facet of the New England Aviation system. By working in a bipartisan fashion, I look forward to improving the airports ability to support the economic development and job creation within the Eastern Slopes region of both Maine and New Hampshire in the years to come.” Earlier this summer, Congressman Guinta wrote a letter to the Northern Border Regional Commission expressing his support for the airports authorities grant application. If awarded this grant, the airport would be able to replace outdated equipment enabling more efficient and routine maintenance such as vegetation control, and snow removal. Additionally, it will allow the airport board to continue its conceptual development of future expansion projects. If you have any questions regarding Eastern Slopes Regional Airport’s expansion, please feel free to contact Congressman Guinta’s office at (603) 641-9536. ###
08.19.2015	Manchester, NH – This morning, Congressman Guinta (NH-01) met with members of the New Hampshire Council on Developmental Disabilities in his Manchester office to discuss initiatives to eliminate obstacles and promote opportunities for people living with disabilities. The New Hampshire Council on Developmental Disabilities carries out its mission through education, advocacy, and the funding of innovative projects that make significant differences in people’s lives. “Due to the work of the New Hampshire Council on Developmental Disabilities and the countless disability advocates across the nation, we are able to help individuals living with challenges to live more independently and participate more actively in our communities. Earlier this year, I held a bipartisan mental health care summit with stakeholders from across the state to identify areas where the federal government can be of assistance to patients and patient advocates alike. I am in the process of writing a mental health care bill to address many of the challenges faced by those with a mental illness. I look forward to continuing to work with great organizations like the New Hampshire Council on Developmental Disabilities to increase accessibility and equality for all.” One of the Council on Developmental Disabilities priorities is the Steve Gleason Act of 2015, which gives Medicare patients greater access to equipment needed to live fuller lives in our communities. Earlier this summer, Congressman Guinta proudly voted in favor of this bill, which has since been signed into law. The Steve Gleason Act ensures that individuals with disabilities will now have access to critical devices, such as speech- generators, or eye tracking technology through Medicare. Congressman Guinta continues to support and encourage efforts to help assist those living with disabilities in the Granite State and throughout the country. To learn more about the New Hampshire Council on Developmental Disabilities please visit their website at www.nhcdd.org ###
08.19.2015	Yesterday, Congressman Guinta (NH-01) visited six small businesses throughout downtown Manchester to hear concerns and ways in which Congress can help relieve them of heavy federal regulations by supporting pro-business policies that support many hardworking Granite Staters. “American job creators and households are being buried under an avalanche of federal regulations – costing small businesses over a trillion dollars per year and countless hours to ensure its compliance with these rules and regulations. Small businesses are the backbone of New Hampshire’s economy; and, as your Representative it is my responsibility to advocate for pro-business policies and do everything in my power to eliminate hurdles preventing business growth, new jobs and competition.” Legislatively, Congressman Guinta has supported many initiatives to rein in excessive government regulation. Specifically, he recently voted in favor of the REINS Act, which would require that regulations written by executive agencies and costing the economy more than $100 million come to Congress for a full vetting and vote. ###
08.18.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting a town hall this Thursday in Ossipee. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. Eleventh town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts eleventh town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Ossipee Public Library--74 Main Street, Center Ossipee, NH WHEN: August 20, 2015 from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
08.18.2015	Manchester, NH – On Tuesday August, 18, 2015, Congressman Guinta (NH-01) visited Families in Transition’s newest housing development facility on Lake Avenue in Manchester, NH. The Family Place Resource Center and Shelter will provide transitional housing to homeless families across New Hampshire and also includes such critical services as a healthcare clinic, preschool, and will help facilitate employment opportunities to assist families in achieving financial independence. "Dating back to my time as Mayor, I have been a forceful advocate for eliminating homelessness. This is a multi-pronged approach, combating substance abuse, ensuring access to affordable housing, and promoting independence and well-being. I will continue to do all that I can to combat homelessness across the Granite State, and I applaud Families in Transitions on the development of the Family Place Resource Center and Shelter and their efforts to address homelessness and the many other needs that accompany it.” Congressman Guinta has helped lead efforts to address the current challenges of homelessness throughout the Granite State by supporting H.R.251, the “Home for Heroes Act of 2015.” H.R. 251 establishes a special assistant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to ensure fair treatment and access to HUD’s housing and homeless assistance programs. If you or your family is at risk of becoming homeless, please call Families in Transition at (603) 641-9441 or e-mail intake@fitnh.org or contact the office of Congressman Frank Guinta at (603) 641-9536. For more information on how you can support Families in Transition please click here. ###
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Financial Services passed Congressman Guinta’s strongly bipartisan bill to protect Granite State consumers, help New Hampshire auto dealers and increase oversight and accountability at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Congressman Guinta introduced H.R. 1737 – the Reforming CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act of 2015 – with Congressman Ed Perlmutter (D-CO) to rescind flawed guidance from the CFPB issued in a way that blatantly denies public participation and due process and harms consumers by limiting their ability to obtain discounted auto financing. “In 2013, the CFPB implemented guidance which has threatened auto dealers flexibility to discount interest rates for consumers and severely decreased competitiveness in the auto industry market. Even worse, the CFPB issued the flawed guidance without providing a public comment period for consumers, small businesses or stakeholders,” said Rep. Frank Guinta. “This bipartisan bill will provide as many opportunities as possible for Granite Staters -- from the single, working mother in Manchester to the small business owner on the Seacoast to the hunters of the north country-- to receive the best financing required to achieve car ownership. I look forward to this bill going to the House floor where it will be voted on.” H.R. 1737 would repeal a faulty CFPB guidance denying the public a chance to comment on regulations directly impacting them. The CFPB has used this guidance to pressure lending institutions into eliminating the availability of auto financing discounts and change the auto lending market completely. These discounts save consumers millions of dollars every year. H.R. 1737 is common-sense, bipartisan legislation aimed at providing transparency, fairness and due process to this Administration’s regulatory regime. “We commend Congressman Guinta for leading the bipartisan effort to repeal the CFPB’s flawed guidance on indirect auto financing and standing up for consumers and small business auto dealers in New Hampshire and throughout the nation,” said Peter Welch, president of the National Automobile Dealers Association. “As a matter of principle, consumers have the right to negotiate, the right to seek a better deal, and the right to choose the loan that’s best for them, but the CFPB has been trying to take that right away,” Welch added. “When you’re paying $30,000 for a car and stretching to do it, consumers should have every possible financial advantage possible. No government institution should deny that. That’s not what Washington is supposed to do.” Joining Congressman Guinta and Congressman Perlmutter, this strong bipartisan bill has 126 cosponsors. H.R. 1737 passed the House Financial Services Committee by a vote of 47-10. H.R. 1737 now awaits consideration by the House of Representatives. For a copy of H.R. 1737, please click here. # # #
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, to rein in Washington’s out-of-control regulatory machine by requiring a congressional vote before any regulation or rule costing more than $100 million goes into effect. “Right now, American job creators and households are being buried under an avalanche of federal regulations – costing small businesses over a trillion dollars per year and countless hours to ensure its compliance with these rules and regulations. Small businesses are the backbone of New Hampshire’s economy; and, Congress must do everything in its power to eliminate hurdles preventing business growth, new jobs and competition. The REINS Act prevents the Obama Administration from issuing further harmful and expensive regulations by requiring Congressional approval in a fast, efficient and accountable manner.” According to a 2014 report from the Competitive Enterprise Institute, businesses pay around $1.86 trillion each year. The National Association of Manufacturers estimates that compliance with federal regulation costs manufacturers with fewer than 50 employees $34,671 a year. The REINS Act guarantees that no major regulation over $100 million becomes effective until Congress approves it. Furthermore, it guarantees a fast up or down vote within 70 legislative days. To read H.R. 427, please click here. # # #
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan H.R. 774 – the Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) Fishing Enforcement Act of 2015 to enhance the enforcement authority of the U.S. Coast Guard and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to regulate illegal fishing and protect Granite State fishermen from unfair and illegal competition. In 2012, Congressman Guinta was the lead Republican sponsor of a similar measure, H.R. 4100 - the Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing Enforcement Act of 2011 - with lead sponsor Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo of Guam. “For nearly 400 years, our Seacoast region has provided Granite Staters with thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in economic opportunities annually thanks to our fishermen, whose efforts also support our tourism and hospitality industries. Unfortunately, there are individuals knowingly and willingly breaking our nation’s fishing laws. I have worked on the issue of IUU fishing for a number of years now, and this bipartisan bill is a great first step to ensuring Granite State fishermen are not subject to unfair and illegal competitive disadvantages.” The bill also increases capacity for inspection, identification, and monitoring of illegal foreign vessels, amends several international agreements to incorporate civil and criminal penalties, and broadens data sharing authority with foreign governments in order to identify and penalize nations that do not comply with fisheries management regulations. Congressman Guinta was the lead republican sponsor of a similar bill in the 112th Congress. To read the text of the bill, please click here. # # #
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, Congressman Guinta joined a bipartisan group of legislators in support of H.R. 3115 – the Enhancing Safety at Military Installations Act – to repeal the ban on military personnel carrying firearms on bases and recruitment facilities. This legislation would require the Department of Defense to issue a directive permitting those in the Armed Forces who have received firearms training and are authorized to use firearms to carry military-issued firearms on bases and recruitment facilities. “Far too often, our nation has witnessed horrific acts of violence against members of our military. The tragic and senseless act of violence which struck the city of Chattanooga last week demonstrate the need to put in place immediate reforms to allow those who wear the uniform to protect themselves when they return home. We are, unfortunately, in a new era where terrorism exists not just abroad, but also at home. This bipartisan and common-sense bill ensures the brave men and women of our military are able to protect themselves and their comrades regardless of where they are serving.” Following a 1992 Department of Defense Directive issued by President George H.W. Bush’s Deputy Secretary of Defense, Donald J. Atwood, most servicemen and women – including those trained in proper firearm use and safety – have been prohibited from carrying military-issued firearms on military bases and recruitment centers. H.R. 3115 is supported by every member of the Tennessee delegation; and, currently has 17 cosponsors. To read the bill, please click here. # # #
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting a town hall Monday, July 20th. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. This town hall represents the tenth of this term – accomplishing a promise to Granite Staters to host a town hall in every county in New Hampshire’s First Congressional District. Tenth town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts tenth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Plaistow American Legion, 176 Main Street, Plaistow, New Hampshire 03865 WHEN: July 20, 2015 from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement today following the announcement that the Obama administration had reached a final agreement in nuclear negotiations with Iran: “President Obama’s deal with Iran raises major concerns for not only our national security; but, also the overall stability of the Middle East. First, the deal provides for a ‘where necessary, when necessary’ inspection of Iran’s nuclear sites rather than an ‘anytime, anywhere’ access. Nuclear inspectors should have unfettered access to verify that the Iranians are comporting with the agreement. Secondly, the deal relieves economic sanctions with very little in return, which could result in increased terrorist activity. And, the deal has the potential to set off an arms race in the Middle East as the breakout time needed to create a bomb becomes considerably less. This deal is bad for our nation. It’s bad for our strongest ally in the Middle East, Israel. And, it’s bad for the Middle East region. I will continue to follow this closely as a vote in Congress nears.” # # #
07.10.2015	Dear Granite Staters, I'm hosting my ninth townhall TOMORROW, July 11th in Alton to answer your legislative questions, listen to your feedback and discuss my new Initiative, "We the People" which makes our office available to you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week via phone call, text and email. Granite Staters know first-hand the importance townhalls have on the legislating process; and, I look forward to sharing and continuing to build upon the legislative successes we've already had this year - including passing two pieces of legislation due to your feedback and your thoughts. Tomorrow's townhall will take place at Gilman Library on 100 Main Street in Alton from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. I hope to see you there! Sincerely, Frank Guinta Member of Congress
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) launched a new initiative entitled “We the People.” The purpose of which is to facilitate increased feedback from Granite Staters whose ideas have already led to legislation the Congressman has introduced and ushered through the House of Representatives. “Ultimately, Washington can only govern effectively when you are invested, you are involved and you are informing your representatives as to what the Congress should be focusing on. For our republic to work, you must be in charge. The “We the People” Initiative serves to make my office available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. I encourage everyone to email, call or text me to share your thoughts and ideas so that I may continue working to make Washington work for the great state of New Hampshire.” With the help and feedback of key organizations, stakeholders and constituents in New Hampshire, Congressman Guinta has been able to get two pieces of legislation passed unanimously by the House of Representatives – including an amendment to prevent the closure of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and an amendment to increase funding for our nation’s drug courts. Congressman Guinta is currently working on drafting a bipartisan bill to address our heroin epidemic to be released this summer and encourages those affected by this growing epidemic to participate in the “We the People” Initiative to introduce the best bill to help curb this issue. Congressman Guinta encourages all constituents of New Hampshire’s 1st Congressional District to participate in this new initiative by emailing wethepeople@mail.house.gov or by calling or texting 603.250.6850. # # #
07.07.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting a town hall this Saturday in Alton. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. This town hall represents the ninth of this term – accomplishing a promise to Granite Staters to host a town hall in every county in New Hampshire’s First Congressional District. Ninth town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts ninth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Gilman Library, 100 Main Street, Alton, New Hampshire, 03809. WHEN: July 11, 2015 from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.
07.01.2015	Dear Granite Staters, Last week, the Supreme Court upheld the 4th District Federal Court decision that all federal subsidies established under the President’s healthcare law are legal, including states – such as New Hampshire – which did not establish their own exchanges. I want to know where you stand regarding the King v. Burwell decision. Please take a moment to answer the survey below. Where do you stand on the Supreme Court's King v. Burwell decision? I support the decision I do not support the decision I have another thought I would like to share with you. [Submit] Click to open in a separate window By completing this survey, you are subscribing to receive periodic updates on how I'm working on behalf of the Granite State in Washington, D.C. Sincerely, Frank Guinta Member of Congress
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) introduced an amendment to the Department of Interior Appropriations package to increase funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund by $16 million for essential outdoor programs. “As Granite Staters know, we are blessed to call one of the most pristine ecological environments in our nation ‘home.’ From the Seacoast region to the White Mountain National Forest to Lake Winnipesauke – outdoor recreation and programs are vital to our economy supporting $4.2 billion in consumer spending, nearly 50,000 Granite State jobs and $293 million annually in state and local revenue. We must continue to fight on behalf of the Land, Water and Conservation Fund to strengthen vital programs which preserve our beautiful state.” To view Congressman Guinta’s floor speech in support of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, please click here. # # #
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, the Supreme Court upheld the 4th District Federal Court decision that all federal subsidies established under the President’s healthcare law are legal, including states – such as New Hampshire – which did not establish their own exchanges. “Every individual should be able to access high-quality, affordable healthcare which best suits their needs. Obamacare’s one-size-fits-all approach does not accomplish this. Today’s decision doesn’t change the fact that due to Obamacare, premiums have increased by more than $4000, small business wages have decreased by $22.6 billion annually and the number of full-time workers will be reduced by 2.5 million all while costing taxpayers more than $2 trillion. Granite Staters should not be forced to spend more of their hard-earned dollars for less access, less quality and fewer choices. We must increase the affordability, accessibility and quality of healthcare plans. This can be achieved by providing tax credits for those transitioning off of Obamacare subsidies, allowing small business owners to band together across state lines to purchase insurance, protecting those with pre-existing conditions and protecting patients and taxpayers by including medical malpractice liability reforms. I will continue to fight for a patient-centered approach that protects those with preexisting conditions, restores billions in Medicare cuts, supports our small businesses and allows children to stay under their parents’ coverage until the age of 26.” The Supreme Court ruled in a 6-3 decision that the federal healthcare subsidies are legal. Congressman Guinta is an original cosponsor of H.R. 2300, an Obamacare alternative sponsored by Dr. Tom Price, a Congressman from Georgia. To read the bill, please click here. ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers in the House of Representatives to support H.R. 2805 – the Heroin and Prescription Opioid Abuse Prevention, Education and Enforcement Act of 2015 – to provide new guidance and best practices to members of the medical community, reauthorize prescription drug monitoring programs critical to local law enforcement efforts, increase access to life-saving Naloxone and raise public, provider and patient awareness of opioid drugs. “Granite Staters know all too well the severity of our state’s drug epidemic. Likewise, we also know how drug addiction does not discriminate. It’s an epidemic affecting families and individuals in every corner of our nation. We must act accordingly and we must act fast. I’m proud to join my colleagues in supporting this important legislation to assist and offer our victims, medical professionals and law enforcement officers the guidance and support they deserve. I will continue to build on my record fighting to combat our state’s heroin epidemic.” Last year, deaths from heroin and illicit drug use exceeded auto-related deaths in the state of New Hampshire. And, in the past five years alone, overdoses in the Granite State have increased five-fold. This month, Congressman Guinta had a bipartisan amendment to increase funding for drug courts unanimously passed and included in a House appropriations bill. Guinta also introduced the Opioid Overdose Reduction Act of 2015 in April to provide protection to first responders educated in administering Narcan to reverse the effects of overdoses. Currently, Congressman Guinta is working on drafting a bipartisan bill to address our heroin epidemic. The bill is scheduled to be released this summer. To read H.R. 2805, please click here. # # #
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Last night, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1190 – the Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act of 2015 – to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board, a group of unelected officials, established by the President’s healthcare law who are solely tasked with cutting costs to Medicare. “Year after year, Granite State seniors are forced to cope with the dual problem of fewer medical choices and sky-rocketing costs. Created within the President’s healthcare law is a board of unelected bureaucrats charged with making critical decisions involving the healthcare needs of our seniors. This board is set to make reckless decisions resulting in the slashing of Medicare funding leaving seniors with less access and fewer healthcare options. A promise made to our seniors is a promise kept; and, that’s why the House acted to pass a common-sense, bipartisan bill to repeal this irresponsible provision. We must work together to ensure the needs of our current and future Medicare beneficiaries are protected; and, that’s why I’ll continue to support measures to accomplish these goals.” Congressman Guinta is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1190. To read H.R. 1190, please click here. # # #
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Financial Services held a hearing to discuss H.R. 1737 – the Reforming CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act – a bipartisan bill introduced with Congressman Ed Perlmutter (D-CO) to rescind flawed guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) which harms consumers by limiting their ability to obtain discounted auto financing. “In 2013, the bureaucratic CFPB issued a guidance preventing families and individuals from obtaining auto financing discounts, without a public period for consumers, small businesses or stakeholders,” said Rep. Frank Guinta. “This guidance not only affects the hundreds of hard-working auto dealers in the Granite State; but, it also affects families and individuals wishing to obtain auto ownership. This month, Alan J. from Laconia emailed my office to share his struggle to obtain auto financing in order to purchase a car after his car broke down so that he could continue his job and continue providing for his children and his sick wife. It is because of folks like Alan that we must address this widespread issue and pass H.R. 1737 to empower the people of the Granite State, and not of the federal government.” H.R. 1737 would repeal a CFPB bulletin from 2013 that was designed to pressure lending institutions into eliminating the availability of auto financing discounts. These discounts save consumers millions of dollars every year. “It is refreshing to see Members of Congress working in a bipartisan manner for transparency, regulatory certainty for small businesses, and low credit prices for auto consumers,” said Peter Welch, President of the National Automobile Dealers Association. “We commend Representatives Guinta and Perlmutter for their leadership on H.R. 1737 to create a transparent and open process when issuing guidance on auto financing. H.R. 1737 now has 89 bipartisan cosponsors and the backing of the auto industry, and we urge Congress to pass this pro-consumer legislation.” Congressman Guinta introduced H.R. 1737 with Congressman Ed Perlmutter (D-CO) on April 13, 2015. The bill has 49 Republican cosponsors and 40 Democratic cosponsors. H.R. 1737 is supported by NADA; the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers; the American Financial Services Association; the National Independent Automobile Dealers Association; AIADA; the Recreational Vehicle Dealers Association; the Recreational Vehicles Industry Association; the National Auto Auction Association; and the Motorcycle Industry Council. For a copy of H.R. 1737, please click here. For a video of Congressman Guinta discussing H.R. 1737, please click here. ###
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Department of Defense appropriations package with an amendment authored by Congressman Frank Guinta (R-NH) which passed the House of Representatives unanimously early this morning. The amendment prohibits funds from being used to conduct a new round of military base closures through Base Realignment and Closure, or BRAC. “The President’s request to close military bases in his budget not only affects our national security and military preparedness; but, it also greatly impacts the Granite State. For more than 200 years, the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard has been of vital importance to New Hampshire’s economy – creating millions of dollars in revenue, providing our military with equipment while creating thousands of civilian and military jobs. I thank my colleagues for joining together in a bipartisan fashion to place the needs of our military readiness and security above partisan politics by unanimously passing my amendment to protect important military installations, like the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.” Every year, the President sends Congress his budget requests. This year, President Obama requested another round of BRAC beginning in FY2017. The House of Representatives considers and votes on appropriations bills to set funding for government programs and departments. The Department of Defense appropriations bill, including the Guinta BRAC amendment, passed the House today by a vote of 278-149 To view Congressman Guinta discussing his amendment on the House floor, please click here. ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, an amendment authored by Congressman Frank Guinta (R-NH) and supported by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) which provides $5 million in increased funds for our nation’s drug courts was unanimously adopted and included in the Commerce, Justice and Science appropriations bill. “As Granite Staters know all too well, our nation is currently facing a drug epidemic,” said Rep. Frank Guinta. “Drug courts are proven to be one of the most effective intervention programs by creating a systematic response to substance abuse and crime as an alternative to incarceration, while simultaneously reducing crime, saving money and serving our communities. I’m grateful the House passed this measure to help directly save the lives of those addicted to drugs, help them reach sobriety and, in turn, make New Hampshire a better place to live.” Last year, deaths from heroin and illicit drug use exceeded auto-related deaths in the state of New Hampshire. And, in the past five years alone, overdoses in the Granite State have increased five-fold. “Drug addiction does not discriminate. It is an epidemic that affects every city and town across America. It leaves in its wake shattered lives and families and costs taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars annually. Drug courts are a critical first step on the road back from addiction,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Investing in our drug courts is an important way to save taxpayers money, reduce crime, and restore families. Quite simply, drug courts work and that is why I am pleased to partner with Congressman Frank Guinta on increasing our investment in the drug court program.” The bipartisan Guinta and Lynch amendment to increase funding for drug courts is offset by an equal reduction in the International Trade Administration. The Commerce, Justice and Science appropriations bill, including the Guinta and Lynch amendment, passed the House last night by a vote of 242-183. ###
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. –Last night, the House passed H.R. 1335 – the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act. This legislation will strengthen and reauthorize the Magnuson-Stevens Management Act (MSA) by tailoring federal fishery management actions to provide our nation’s eight Regional Fishery Management Councils the proper tools and flexibility needed to effectively manage their fisheries, support a robust fishing industry and provide more job opportunities for the fishing industry. “The bipartisan Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act is a crucial and common-sense step to ensuring the needs of New Hampshire’s fishermen, the fishing industry and the environment are both balanced and met. These substantial reforms will increase transparency and provide for a stronger domestic seafood industry while creating new jobs in this vital industry. This MSA reauthorization includes similar language to legislation I introduced to reallocate funds from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s operating fund to the fishermen and fisheries scientists who need it most to rebuild this beleaguered industry. This is one of many of my bipartisan solutions to help alleviate the challenges our state’s fishermen face.” H.R. 1335 aims to improve federal fishery management in order to provide Regional Fishery Management Councils the flexibility necessary to effectively manage their fisheries. To read a copy of H.R. 1335, please click here. ###
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement following the passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act, an authorization bill considered by Congress every year to set funding levels for the military to continue its operations and remain a global leader: “As a Congress, it is our responsibility to ensure our military has the necessary and appropriate funding to provide for our defense and protect our national security interests. The FY2016 NDAA provides our military with essential funding levels to combat our most immediate threats around the world, while strengthening its efficiency and agility. It’s because of our nation’s military that the United States of America remains, ‘the land of the free and home the brave.’ We owe it to our servicemembers to advance this vital funding bill. ” ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, Congressman Guinta joined a group of House legislators to introduce H.R. 2300 – the Empowering Patients First Act – to repeal the President’s healthcare law and replace it with a patient-centered alternative. “The President’s healthcare law has resulted in Granite Staters spending more of their hard-earned money for less – less access, less quality and fewer choices. The Empowering Patients First Act reverses the trend of placing healthcare decisions in the hands of Washington bureaucrats; and, returns healthcare decisions to Granite Staters, their families and their doctors. H.R. 2300 focuses on increasing the affordability, accessibility and quality of healthcare plans by providing tax credits for those transitioning off of Obamacare subsidies, allowing small business owners to band together across state lines to purchase insurance, protecting those with pre-existing conditions and protecting patients by including medical malpractice liability reforms. This alternative is a common-sense first step to once again empowering Granite Staters with their own healthcare decisions while including necessary reforms not included in the President’s healthcare law.” H.R. 2300 is sponsored by Dr. Tom Price, a Congressman from Georgia. To read the bill, please click here. # # #
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement following his opposition to H.R. 2048, the USA Freedom Act, which passed the House this evening: “Granite Staters believe strongly in the principle of protecting and securing our civil liberties. While this legislation addresses some of the concerns brought to attention due to the NSA revelations in 2013 and 2014, the legislation does not go far enough in including a wholesale reform of our intelligence agencies. I will continue to fight to ensure Granite Staters most fundamental right of privacy is protected and strengthened.” ###
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This morning, Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) and Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-02) hosted a mental health summit to announce draft legislation the two Representatives are planning to introduce jointly in order to improve mental health care across the country. Nearly 100 mental health advocates, experts, and professionals from across the Granite State were in attendance to discuss the draft legislation and other initiatives to improve the mental health system in New Hampshire. "Reforming our mental health system is a cause both near and dear to my heart. As the primary caretaker of a family member battling a mental illness, I know firsthand how our current system is failing those with these illnesses and also where there are opportunities to strengthen our system. This is a common-sense and bipartisan issue; and I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Kuster to fix this urgent issue facing the Granite State,” said Guinta. “I was so pleased to host this joint summit with Congressman Guinta in order to hear directly from local stakeholders in New Hampshire about how best to increase access to mental health care for those in need. It’s long past time to remove the stigma around mental health and ensure that high quality care is offered in the Granite State and beyond, and I’m proud to join with Congressman Guinta in drafting legislation to improve mental health services across the nation. Today’s summit gave us a chance to receive feedback on our legislation from those in the community who are working on these issues every day on the ground in New Hampshire, and we look forward to incorporating their thoughts in our bill as we prepare to introduce the legislation in the House,” said Rep. Kuster. The draft legislation being discussed during the summit looks to address several aspects of mental health services and treatment, including the formation of a Mental Health Coordination Committee to establish a national strategy for the treatment of mental illness, the expansion of current demonstration projects for Federally Qualified Community Health centers, and increased investment in research for the prevention and treatment of mental illness disorders. Guinta and Kuster will use the feedback they heard at the summit to revise and improve their proposal before introducing the joint legislation at a later date. Today’s summit gave advocates, providers, and state lawmakers a chance to discuss with Guinta and Kuster the challenges facing Granite Staters with mental illness, the current support system and treatment options, plans to improve services, and their thoughts on how Congress can better support the mental health community. Following welcoming remarks by Guinta and Kuster, three discussion panels on Co-occurring Disorders, Barriers to Care, and Mental Health and the Justice System took place. Kuster and Guinta were joined at the summit by NH DHHS Commissioner Nick Toumpas, NH Superior Court Chief Justice Tina Nadeau, and NAMI NH Executive Director Ken Norton, as well as representatives from the health care, law enforcement, mental health, substance abuse, and corrections communities. ###
05.08.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will host a townhall this Saturday in Seabrook to discuss issues of concern to Granite State seniors. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. This marks the eighth townhall of the year. Congressman Guinta has now held one townhall in each of the First District’s seven counties. The Seabrook town hall will be focused on issues of concern to our senior citizens, such as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Eighth town hall of the year to focus on NH-01 Seniors WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts eighth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire interested in discussing issues affecting senior citizens and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: 25 Liberty Lane, Seabrook, New Hampshire. WHEN: Saturday, May 9 from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. ###
05.04.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Last week, Congressman Guinta delivered a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor the teachers and educators of New Hampshire’s First Congressional District in celebration of National Teachers Appreciation Day, which takes place tomorrow, May 5th. “National Teachers Appreciation Day is a day to give thanks for all of our teachers and educators who provide our students with the constant attention and resources needed to become the future leaders of our world. Our teachers serve as encouragement that with hard work and dedication that anything is possible. And, for that, myself and the rest of the Granite State are thankful.” To view Congressman Guinta’s floor speech celebrating National Teachers Appreciation Day, please click here. ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta introduced the Fisheries Investment and Regulatory Relief Act, a bipartisan bill to redirect more than $100 million in existing funds to programs of crucial importance to sustainably managing our fisheries and the communities and fishermen who make a living from the ocean. Joined by Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), this piece of legislation would provide grants to research, monitor and manage our state’s fisheries. “The bipartisan Fisheries Investment and Regulatory Relief Act is a crucial step in strengthening New Hampshire’s historical fishing industry during this difficult period in the industry,” said Rep. Frank Guinta, who represents the fishing communities of the Seacoast in New Hampshire. “Granite State fishermen deserve the resources necessary to assist with their jobs, cope with government mandates and increase their revenue. This is one of many of my bipartisan solutions to help alleviate the challenges our state’s fishermen face.” “I am proud to join Rep. Guinta in re-introducing this important piece of legislation,” said Rep. Bill Keating, who represents the fishing communities of Southeastern Massachusetts. “Our bill, as we have supported in previous Congresses, is a simple, common-sense step to ensure that our fishermen receive the full balance of funds available to them under the Saltonstall-Kennedy Act grant program. This is a nonpartisan issue that requires bipartisan support, and we all agree that better science leads to better management. This bill will ensure that fishermen are directly involved in promoting the research and development that will impact their livelihoods.” This bipartisan bill ensures key programs critical to managing ocean fish populations and the fishermen and communities which depend on them will receive increased and sustainable funding. To read a copy of the Fisheries Investment and Regulatory Relief Act, please click here. ###
04.28.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – At the urging of New Hampshire’s recreational fishermen, Congressman Frank Guinta sent a letter to Commerce Department Secretary Penny Pritzker requesting the Department alleviate the severe reduction in cod catch limits for recreational anglers and charter boats. This week, the Commerce Department announced it would implement Framework 53 with the revised catch limits, as advocated for by New Hampshire fishermen and Congressman Guinta. This comes just days before the opening of the May 1 fishing season. “Our fishing industry knows all too well what the heavy hand of government regulation can place on the fishing industry’s ability to complete their job while maintaining or increasing revenue. While I’m happy the Commerce Department implemented this vital rule, I know there’s much more that can be done to eliminate the suffocating regulations and rules which continue to burden our state’s vital economic engine. I will not stop working on behalf of our state’s fishermen to ensure that our government is helping – not hindering – this industry.” To read the letter Congressman Guinta sent to the Commerce Department urging its immediate consideration and implementation of this proposed rule, please click here. ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement today discussing his opposition to H.R. 1560 and H.R. 1731, which both passed the House this week: “In the ‘Live Free or Die’ state we believe strongly in the principle of protecting and securing our civil liberties. In light of the significant revelations in 2013 and 2014 that the government spied and collected the personal and sensitive information of innocent Americans, Granite Staters have urged me to keep the fundamental right of privacy in mind when voting on any legislation. Our nation is in dire need of a serious and robust conversation regarding an overhaul of our intelligence community. We need to ensure that individuals have a right to due process, and that there is a strong emphasis on an open and transparent society. We must, and I believe we can, find that proper balance between protecting our civil liberties and our homeland. These are not mutually exclusive ends, and I will continue to fight for both.” H.R. 1560 - the Protecting Cyber Networks Act - promotes the voluntary sharing of information about cyber threats among private companies and the federal government. It allows the intelligence community to share intelligence with private sector entities. H.R. 1731 – the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement – provides liability protections for private companies sharing sensitive information with the federal government. ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Guinta joined Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) today to introduce the bipartisan SAFE Act – Safeguard American Food Exports Act – of 2015 to address the inhumane and dangerous process of transporting horses outside of the United States for human consumption. “For centuries, horses have embodied the spirit of American freedom and pride. To that end, horses are not raised for food – permitting their transportation for the purposes of being slaughtered for human consumption is not consistent with our values and results in a dangerously toxic product. My bipartisan bill seeks to prevent and end the inhumane and dangerous process of transporting thousands of horses a year for food.” The issue of horse slaughter was brought to Congressman Guinta’s attention in the 112th Congress when 12-year-old Declan Gregg, an advocate against horse slaughter and constituent of New Hampshire’s First Congressional District, met with him to raise awareness of the issue and urge for change to protect American horses. The SAFE Act of 2015 is supported by the ASPCA and the Humane Society. There are over 40 cosponsors of the SAFE ACT, including 19 Republicans and 22 Democrats. To read the text of the SAFE Act, please click here. Congressman Guinta introduces the SAFE Act with Declan Gregg this afternoon. # # #
04.20.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Guinta joined Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA) and Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-VA) last week in introducing legislation to help prevent prescription drug and heroin overdoses in the United States. “Heroin and other illicit drugs are now killing more Granite Staters than traffic accidents, bringing into clear focus New Hampshire’s heroin emergency. This is unacceptable, and must be dealt with immediately. I have been working with and speaking to stakeholders on this issue from first responders to mental health and substance abuse counselors - among others - to identify solutions to eliminate this growing problem. This bipartisan bill is one part of an overall strategy to tackle this by providing protection to first responders educated in administering Narcan to reverse the effects of an overdose, saving the lives of countless individuals in the process. According to the Washington Post, “overdosing is now the leading cause of accidental death in the United States, accounting for more deaths than traffic fatalities or gun homicides and suicides. Fatal overdoses from opiate medications such as Oxycodone, Hydrocodone and Methadone have quadrupled since 1999, accounting for an estimated 16,651 deaths in 2010.” However, death from heroin and other opioid drugs may be prevented if the victim is administered an opioid overdose drug, such as Naloxone (also known as Narcan), in a timely manner. The Opioid Overdose Reduction Act of 2015 would exempt from civil liability emergency administration of opioid overdose-reversing drugs, like Naloxone, by people who prescribe or are prescribed them. # # #
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Guinta joined Congressman Ed Perlmutter (D-CO) yesterday in introducing H.R. 1737 – the Reforming CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act of 2015 - to rescind flawed guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) which harms consumers by limiting their ability to obtain discounted auto financing. “In 2013, the CFPB implemented guidance without providing a public comment period for consumers, small businesses or stakeholders to prevent families and individuals from obtaining auto financing discounts. From the single, working mother in Manchester to the small business owner on the Seacoast to the hunters of the north country – this bipartisan bill will provide as many opportunities as possible for Granite Staters to receive the best financing required to achieve car ownership.” H.R. 1737 would repeal a CFPB bulletin from 2013 that was designed to pressure lending institutions into eliminating the availability of auto financing discounts. These discounts save consumers millions of dollars every year. Joining Congressman Guinta and Congressman Perlmutter, this strong bipartisan bill has 7 original co-sponsors, including Congressmen Marlin Stutzman (R-IN), David Scott (D-GA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Roger Williams (R-TX), Daniel Kildee (D-MI) and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (D-OH.) For a copy of H.R. 1737, please click here. # # #
04.06.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) announced today that he will visit a Cumberland Farms store in Portsmouth to work behind the counter, speak with employees, interact with members of the local community and discuss issues of importance to the store, patrons and community. “Small businesses are the backbone of New Hampshire’s economy - in fact, nearly 96% of our employers are classified as small businesses. It is essential to continue to grow our small businesses to provide Granite Staters with steady, good-paying jobs while also strengthening and contributing to our local economy. Convenience stores, like Cumberland Farms, provide essential services to individuals and families with one-stop shopping, grab-and-go food service, a variety of merchandise and fast transactions. I’m excited to visit this store, speak with patrons and witness firsthand the various benefits convenience stores provide to the residents of Portsmouth.” The event will be held Wednesday, April 8, 2015 at the Cumberland Farms Store located at 1475 Lafayette Road, Portsmouth, NH 03801 from 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM. Members of the press are invited to attend. ###
04.01.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta hosted a roundtable this morning to discuss the challenges associated with the expansion and improvement of the Eastern Slopes Airport located in Fryeburg, Maine. “Tourism is New Hampshire’s second largest industry, creating thousands of seasonal and yearly jobs, countless economic opportunities for small businesses, construction projects for Granite State developers and state revenue. The expansion and improvement of the Eastern Slopes Airport is absolutely vital to strengthening our state’s tourism industry and encouraging more out-of-state visitors to travel to the Mt. Washington Valley region to experience the beauty we know so well.” The roundtable was attended by members of the airport’s Board of Directors and representatives from the offices of Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME.) This is the first Eastern Slopes Airport roundtable Congressman Guinta has hosted. He plans to continue these efforts to expedite this vital expansion. # # #
03.31.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta today announced the first Job Fair for Granite State veterans and service members looking for employment. Attendees will have the opportunity to attend workshops on resume writing and interviewing techniques, speak with representatives from various companies, apply for new positions and discuss concerns with Congressman Guinta and staff. “In New Hampshire, we have one of the highest veterans’ populations in the nation. We know all too well the challenges our servicemen and women face during their transition into civilian life. Unfortunately, one of the hardest challenges remains finding a good-paying job upon returning home. Our veterans are some of the brightest and most dedicated employees out there; and, we owe it to them to help smooth their transition, which is why I’m hosting this Job Fair for our veterans and military service members to attend.” Over 20 local businesses will be participating in the Job Fair, including Service Credit Union, UPS, Walmart, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, UN Police Department, Kelly Services, Great Bay Community College, Foss Manufacturing Company, Sig Sauer, Adecco and more. The Veterans Job Fair is open to all New Hampshire active military, National Guard, Reserve, Veterans and their families. There is no cost to participate in the fair and parking is free. Constituents or employers wishing to participate are encouraged to call the Manchester office at (603) 641-9536 with further questions. VETERANS & MILITARY SERVICE MEMBERS JOB FAIR WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts Veterans & Military Service Members Job Fair. WHO: New Hampshire active duty, National Guardsmen and women, reservists, veterans and their families are invited to attend. Members of the press are also invited to attend. WHERE: Great Bay Community College, 320 Corporate Drive, Portsmouth, New Hampshire 03801. WHEN: Friday, April 10th from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, the House Financial Services Committee approved 11 bipartisan bills designed to help strengthen the economy and consumer choice by relieving community banks and credit unions from some of the harmful regulatory burden imposed by Washington. The explosive growth of regulation following the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act has made it significantly harder for community banks and credit unions to survive and serve customers. New regulations and higher compliance costs have accelerated the pace of industry consolidation and forced many small banks and credit unions to close their doors. Since the passage of Dodd-Frank nearly five years ago, big financial institutions have gotten bigger and small financial institutions have become fewer. As a result, consumers are finding they have less access to affordable credit and that their local financial institution can no longer provide them with the products and services they want and need, such as free checking or affordable home mortgages. “This week, the House Committee on Financial Services acted to pass multiple, common-sense bills to alleviate the regulatory burdens Granite State individuals, families and businesses are forced to comply with. This limits their ability to obtain credit, achieve financial independence, economic opportunities and overall success. These 11 bipartisan bills not only help Granite State consumers; but, they also help strengthen our state’s vital community banks and credit unions.” For a list of the 11 bipartisan bills that passed the Committee, please click here. ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting two town halls next week, one in Conway and the other in Campton. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. These town halls represent the sixth and seventh of this term – accomplishing a promise to Granite Staters to host a town hall in every county in New Hampshire’s First Congressional District within the first three months of Congressman Guinta’s term. Sixth town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts sixth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend WHERE: Conway Public Library, 15 Greenwood Avenue, Conway, NH 03818 WHEN: Tuesday, March 31st from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Seventh town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts seventh town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend WHERE: Campton Elementary School, 1110 NH 175, Campton, NH 03223 WHEN: Wednesday, April 1st from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2 – the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act – a bipartisan bill to strengthen Medicare and establish the most significant structural entitlement reform in nearly two decades: “Today, the House demonstrated its ability to effectively govern by reversing an 11-year trend of kicking the can down the road and offering short patches instead of dealing with the underlying problems with the Sustainable Growth Rate’ or SGR. A promise made is a promise kept to our seniors; and, today the House took an important step to protect and preserve Medicare for current and future beneficiaries. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that H.R. 2 will save $900 million over 10 years by finally overhauling this flawed formula and replacing it with a more patient-centered system. These real, structural reforms will ensure access to quality care for Granite State seniors; and, I look forward to the Senate passing this overwhelmingly bipartisan bill to finally provide certainty for our seniors.” Congress had voted 17 times in the past 11 years to approve a “doc fix,” a stop-gap measure that delays cuts in Medicare reimbursements to physicians. H.R. 2 passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 392-37 # # #
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement today following the passage of a budget for Fiscal Year 2016: “Today, the House acted to pass a responsible, common-sense spending blueprint that addresses the drivers of our $18 trillion debt. This budget balances in less than 10 years, provides for a strong national defense, and restores the more than $700 billion cuts from Medicare while strengthening this vital program for our seniors. For far too long, Washington has maintained a ‘spend first, pay later’ attitude. Granite Staters deserve better. You deserve an efficient and accountable government that spends your taxpayer dollars wisely. A balanced budget means a healthier economy; and, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to rein in our debt and deficit while growing our economy for all Americans.” # # #
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement today on the fifth anniversary of the President’s healthcare law being signed into law: “ObamaCare was sold to the United States on a set of promises that remain unfulfilled. In fact, the President’s healthcare law has reduced the number of full-time workers by 2.5 million, increased premiums by more than $4000, reduced small business wages by $22.6 billion annually while costing American taxpayers more than $2 trillion. This Washington-centric, top-down healthcare approach is picking winners and losers instead of implementing free-market solutions that place you, the patient, first. We need a healthcare system that preserves doctor-patient relationships, decreases medical costs and increases competition. I will continue to fight for a patient-centered approach that protects those with preexisting conditions, restores billions in Medicare cuts, supports our small businesses and allows children to stay under their parents’ coverage until the age of 26.” # # #
03.23.2015	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Today, Representatives Frank Guinta (NH-1) and Annie Kuster (NH-2) and U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) wrote to President Barack Obama in support of Governor Maggie Hassan’s request for a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of New Hampshire following the damage and costs caused by a snowstorm in January. The costs associated with the January storm exceeded $3.29 million. “The magnitude of the response required by this blizzard is such that an effective response is beyond the capacity of New Hampshire’s state and local governments, justifying federal assistance,” the delegation wrote. “We urge you to grant a Major Disaster Declaration for New Hampshire as soon as possible in order to ensure that our state and towns have access to the resources and assistance they need to fully recover from this emergency.” The record setting snow storm required that the New Hampshire State Emergency Operations Plan and Emergency Operations Center deploy 648 New Hampshire Department of Transportation personnel to plow nearly 9,000 miles of roadway. The full text of the letter is available here and below: March 23, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write in support of New Hampshire Governor Margaret Hassan’s request for a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of New Hampshire following the damage and costs caused by a snowstorm that lasted from January 26 through January 28, 2015. The Governor’s request covers Public Assistance and Direct Federal Assistance, including snow removal, for Hillsborough, Rockingham and Strafford counties, and statewide designation for the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. During the period January 26 to January 28, Hillsborough, Rockingham and Strafford Counties received between 28 and 32 inches of snowfall, breaking local accumulation records, imposing significant damage, and straining state, municipal and county budgets. During that timeframe, areas throughout New Hampshire also experienced significant snowfall along with high winds. In response, Governor Hassan issued a Statewide State of Emergency, activated the State Emergency Operations Plan and Emergency Operations Center, and deployed 648 New Hampshire Department of Transportation personnel to plow nearly 9,000 miles of roadway. The magnitude of the response required by this blizzard is such that an effective response is beyond the capacity of New Hampshire’s state and local governments, justifying federal assistance. Current verified costs associated with this incident exceed $3.29 million statewide, surpassing the state’s per capita benchmark. In addition, due to the substantial costs of snow removal, salting, de-icing, and sanding of roads, Hillsborough, Rockingham and Strafford Counties, and the municipalities therein, have both exceeded their per capita benchmark and exhausted their snow removal budgets. We urge you to grant a Major Disaster Declaration for New Hampshire as soon as possible in order to ensure that our state and towns have access to the resources and assistance they need to fully recover from this emergency. Thank you for your consideration. ###
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta (R-NH) and U.S. Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), are requesting an update from the administration regarding the status of federal disaster relief funds for New Hampshire fishermen. The funds are intended to support New Hampshire’s fishing industry, which has been harmed by rigorous catch limit regulations and consequent economic losses. The 2014 appropriations bill included $75 million, to be administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) within the Department of Commerce, for fishery disaster relief to help alleviate the economic impacts associated with declared commercial fishery failures and fishery resource disasters throughout the country. New Hampshire was allotted approximately $2 million in funds, including $1.1 million to be distributed and used at the state’s discretion. So far, the state has received nearly $1 million in direct assistance. New Hampshire applied in December for its state-specific grant portion of $1.1 million in disaster relief funds, but the application awaits further action by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). AYOTTE, SHAHEEN, GUINTA LETTER TO OMB DIRECTOR: March 16, 2015 The Honorable Shaun Donovan Director The Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 CC: Dr. Kathryn Sullivan, NOAA Administrator Dear Director Donovan: We write regarding disaster relief funds to the New England groundfish industry. We understand that in December 2014, New Hampshire submitted a final grant application to the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) for federal disaster relief and is currently awaiting further action. Fishing is a historic and honorable trade in New Hampshire and across our nation. This disaster relief will provide critical short-term support for New Hampshire’s small boat fishing industry, which has been forced to near extinction in recent years. New Hampshire’s fishermen need certainty to ensure the livelihood of their businesses, therefore we urge immediate action on New Hampshire’s grant application to provide the fishing industry with necessary temporary relief. We respectfully request an update regarding the status of New Hampshire’s final grant application for federal disaster funds and again urge your prompt action on the final grant application. We look forward to your timely response. ###
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta sent a letter to Secretary Penny Pritzker of the Commerce Department urging its immediate consideration of a proposed rule to alleviate the severe reduction in cod catch limits for recreational anglers and charter boats. “For nearly 400 years, our Seacoast region has provided Granite Staters with thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in economic opportunities annually thanks to our fishermen, whose efforts also support our tourism and hospitality industries. However, over the years, our fishermen have been fighting against stringent federal regulations which threaten to put an end to this historic industry in New Hampshire. It is imperative for the Commerce Department to take action on this proposed catch quota immediately to prevent any further devastating blows to our state’s fishing industry. While this amended catch quota is a step in the right direction, there’s still much more that can be done to free our fishermen from the heavy hand of government regulation. I will not stop working towards eliminating regulations and rules which continue to burden our state’s vital economic engine.” Click here to read the full version of the letter. ###
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta joined a bipartisan coalition of House Members in sending a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Acting Administrator Andy Slavitt. In the letter, the Members urged against recent payment cuts for Medicare Advantage which will go into effect in 2016. These proposed cuts, released on February 20, will impact the health care choices and benefits of more than 16 million seniors and individuals with disabilities. “I have long opposed these reckless cuts to Medicare that would greatly impact New Hampshire's seniors. Year after year, seniors are forced to grapple with the dual problem of fewer medical choices and sky-rocketing costs. This year’s cuts threaten not only the financial security of our seniors; but, also their health and well-being. Washington cannot continue to make irresponsible choices at our senior's expense. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to fight to secure the healthcare choices and benefits of Granite State seniors.” To read the letter, please click here. # # #
03.11.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta visited the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (PNSY) today to receive an updated command brief and tour the new Naval Learning Centers. Representatives from PNSY discussed their work overhauling nuclear submarines and ways in which the Congressman could continue his efforts toward ensuring PNSY continues to flourish. “The Portsmouth Naval Shipyard continues the tradition of excellence and service to the Navy, the Granite State and our country by supplying and maintaining the U.S. Navy’s submarine fleet. As one of the largest economic engines in New Hampshire, I remain committed to ensuring the Shipyard has the necessary resources and support from Congress to continue to meet the needs of our defense, grow our local economy and remain a leader in the nuclear submarine industry.” The Portsmouth Naval Shipyard employs approximately 4,700 civilian on its 297-acre base with plans of growing its workforce to 5,200 civilian employees as it works to overhaul the Navy’s submarines. PNSY has converted two of its four Power Plant boilers to natural gas, part of an award-winning comprehensive energy management program. # # #
03.09.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting two town halls this week, one in Hooksett and the other in Dover. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. These town halls represent the fourth and fifth of this term. The Dover town hall will be focused on issues related to our veterans while the Hooksett venue will focus more broadly on any and all issues of concern to Granite Staters. Fourth town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts fourth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Hooksett Police Department, 15 Legends Drive, Hooksett, New Hampshire 03106. WHEN: Today, March 9th from 5:30 p.m. to 6:45 p.m. Fifth townhall of the year focused on our veterans WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts fifth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of New Hampshire interested in discussing veterans issues and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: McConnell Center, 61 Locust Street, Dover, New Hampshire, 03820. WHEN: Wednesday, March 11 from 5:30 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement today following the passage of H.R. 240 – a bill to provide funding for the Department of Homeland Security through the rest of FY 2015: “Like many Granite Staters, I oppose President Obama’s executive overreach granting de facto amnesty to millions of individuals who came here illegally. The President has lost more than a dozen, unanimous decisions before the Supreme Court in the last few years alone; and, most recently a court found that he had exceeded his authority with regard to amnesty. This was the correct decision. We have an obligation to provide for the common defense; and, I believe that our national security is of utmost importance. For these reasons, I voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of the fiscal year; and, look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure our border is secured and our nation is protected.” # # #
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the statement below following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s joint address to Congress: “Israel is our strongest and most reliable ally in the Middle East; and, they deserve no less than the 100% backing of the United States of America. At a time when terrorism threatens the national security of the U.S., the stability of the Middle East, and the rest of world, it is imperative that the United States and Israel come together to protect the free world from terrorism. I stand with Israel and Prime Minister Netanyahu.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting two town halls next week, one in Hooksett and the other in Dover. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. These town halls represent the fourth and fifth of this term. The Dover town hall will be focused on issues related to our veterans while the Hooksett venue will focus more broadly on any and all issues of concern to Granite Staters. Fourth town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts fourth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Hooksett Police Department, 15 Legends Drive, Hooksett, New Hampshire 03106. WHEN: Monday, March 9th from 5:30 p.m. to 6:45 p.m. Fifth townhall of the year focused on our veterans WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts fifth town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of New Hampshire interested in discussing veterans issues and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: McConnell Center, 61 Locust Street, Dover, New Hampshire, 03820. WHEN: Wednesday, March 11 from 5:30 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, Congressman Guinta joined a bipartisan group of legislators to introduce H.R. 953 – the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act – to provide a robust response to the twin epidemics of opioid and heroin addiction that includes prevention, law enforcement strategies and the expansion of evidence-based treatment. “Last week, I had the opportunity to hear from local law enforcement agents and first responders to discuss ways in which I can help combat our state’s growing heroin and opiate epidemic. The use of these deadly drugs are affecting our communities, our schools, our neighborhoods, our medical facilities and more – and, I want to do everything in my power to provide our local officials with the tools and resources necessary to combat this issue and help Granite Staters overcome their deadly addictions. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act is a common-sense and bipartisan bill that will result in a more comprehensive approach towards addressing, educating and preventing heroin and opiate addiction in our state. I look forward to its swift passage in the House of Representatives so we can begin preventing overdoses and addiction while simultaneously making our communities a safer place to live.” H.R. 953 is a bipartisan bill sponsored by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Tim Ryan (D-OH). The bill is endorsed by National Council, NASADAD, Legal Action Center, CSG, NGA, Major County Sheriffs, NIDA, ONDCP, Faces and Voices of Recovery, CADCA, Partnership for a Drug-Free America, and the Hilton Foundation. To read the bill, please click here. # # #
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement following the passage of a ‘clean’ bill to provide funding to the Department of Homeland Security: “Granite Staters are tired of the gamesmanship ever present in Washington. It is time to stop governing by crisis. This evening, I joined my colleagues in the House and Senate to extend funding for the Department of Homeland Security, while the respective legislative bodies work out the differences. I will continue to fight President Obama’s executive overreach that has failed more than a dozen unanimous Supreme Court decisions in the past few years alone. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this legislation.” # # #
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. –Congressman Guinta released the following statement regarding today’s vote by the Federal Communications Commission to enact a 322 page regulatory ruling regulating the Internet as a public utility: “The last thing the ‪Internet needs is to be at the heavy hands of more government regulation. The Internet has been successful precisely because it has been permitted to grow and prosper without excessive rulemaking. In the Granite State, our motto is ‘live free or die.’ Today’s decision by a body of unelected bureaucrats threatens our freedom and jeopardizes American innovation, economic growth and jobs. I will fight to keep our Internet open and accessible for all.” ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement following the bipartisan passage of H.R. 529 – a bill to expand, modernize, and strengthen 529 plans to increase educational opportunities for our nation’s children and youth. “As the first in my family to graduate from college, I know firsthand the importance of investing in one’s education. Despite one’s background or financial situation, every single child – from the aspiring scientist on the Seacoast to the future public servant in the North Country – should have access to the boundless opportunities a great education provides. Our economy depends on an educated and motivated workforce; and, a good education presents an individual with economic opportunity and mobility. The overwhelming bipartisan passage of H.R. 529 is a common-sense approach towards ensuring that the dream of higher education is always within reach.” H.R. 529 permanently expands the use of 529 educational savings plans by allowing tax-free distributions for students to buy computers and software. It also modifies the tax treatment of multiple accounts for a single beneficiary and it exempts from taxation any amounts that are refunded from colleges as long as the beneficiary recontributes the funds back into a 529 account within a specified time. H.R. 529 passed the House of Representative by a vote of 401-20. To read the text of H.R. 529, please click here. ###
02.23.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta hosted two townhalls last week – one in Manchester and the other in Laconia. This represents Congressman Guinta’s second and third townhalls since being sworn into the 114th Congress. “The top two concerns I heard from constituents during last week’s townhalls echoed the apprehensions I’ve heard from Granite Staters since I took office earlier this year. First and foremost, our economy remains stagnant while the cost-of-living increases and take-home pay decreases. Secondly, families and small businesses continue to grapple with offsetting the harmful effects of the President’s healthcare law. To resolve these concerns, I wrote legislation to repeal the devastating Cadillac tax under the President’s healthcare law which is set to inflict a 40% tax on workers’ health care plans – running up healthcare costs for individuals, companies, municipalities and taxpayers. Additionally, I introduced bipartisan legislation to rein in Washington’s “spend first, pay later” mentality which has resulted in rampant government waste and abuse. Every dollar the government wastes on duplicative programs and agencies could – and should – go back to your pockets for you to spend as you see fit. I look forward to working with our communities in the state and both parties in Washington to enact these bills into law." # # #
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting two town halls this week, one in Manchester and the other in Laconia. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. These town halls represent the second and third of this term. The Manchester town hall will be focused on issues of concern to our senior citizens while the Laconia venue will focus more broadly on any and all issues of concern to Granite Staters. Second town hall of the year focused on NH-01 Seniors WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts second town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire interested in discussing issues affecting senior citizens and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: St. Anselm Institute for Politics, 100 Saint Anselm Drive, Manchester, NH 03102 WHEN: Tonight, Wednesday, February 18 from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Third town hall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts third town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Lakes Region Community College, Center for Arts and Technology, Room 236. 379 Belmont Road, Laconia, New Hampshire. WHEN: Tomorrow, February 19 from 5:30 p.m. – 6:45 p.m. ###
02.12.2015	Washington, DC – This morning, Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-02) and Congressman Frank Guinta (NH-01) joined together to introduce legislation that would protect the Veterans Choice Card program in New Hampshire. This program was passed into law as part of last year’s bipartisan Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, legislation enacted to overhaul the faulty management system at the VA and help ensure every veteran can access timely, high quality medical care. The Veterans Choice Card program allows veterans to receive medical care at private facilities if long wait times or location make it difficult for veterans to access care at the VA. This card is particularly crucial for states like New Hampshire, which do not have full-service VA hospital. With this card, many New Hampshire veterans will no longer be required to travel extremely long distances, sometimes up to 100 miles, to access the care they need. Under current law, the Veterans Choice Card program is authorized for three years or until its $10 billion dollar initial funding allocation is exhausted; however, the President’s fiscal year 2016 budget proposes reallocation of funds from the program which could greatly hinder the ability of New Hampshire veterans to take advantage of the card and access medical services at private facilities. The legislation introduced today by Reps. Kuster and Guinta would protect the Veterans Choice Card program by making the program permanent for veterans in states like New Hampshire without a full-service VA hospital. “As a member of the House Veteran’s Affairs Committee, I fought for the Veterans Choice card to be included in last year’s VA reform legislation, and I know what a difference this program will make to the lives of veterans all across the Granite State,” said Congresswoman Annie Kuster, who helped lead the investigation into mismanagement at the VA and who now currently serves as Ranking Member of the Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “In states like New Hampshire without full-service VA medical centers, many of our veterans have been forced to travel long distances to receive care. This card will change that, and I’m very disappointed the President has proposed changes to the program before the implementation process has even gotten underway. We must protect our veterans’ right to receive care they need and deserve, and I’m proud to introduce this legislation that will protect the Veterans Choice Card program in New Hampshire from harmful cuts.” “Our state has one of the highest veteran populations per capita in the nation; and, it gives me great honor to stand side-by-side with Rep. Kuster in introducing a common-sense bipartisan and bicameral piece of legislation to finally make permanent such a vital program to ensure our state’s heroes get the medical care and resources they deserve,” said Congressman Frank Guinta. The legislation Congresswoman Kuster and Congressman Guinta introduced today will make the Veterans Choice Card program permanent in states without full-service VA centers, protecting our veterans’ ability to access quality care in a timely manner. The bill is a bicameral, bipartisan effort to ensure that this program is fully implemented as intended by Congress. Companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting two town halls next week, one in Manchester and the other in Laconia. These are vital to the legislative process and serve to update Granite Staters on his work in Washington while receiving important feedback. These town halls represent the second and third of this term. The Manchester town hall will be focused on issues of concern to our senior citizens while the Laconia venue will focus more broadly on any and all issues of concern to Granite Staters. Second town hall of the year focused on NH-01 Seniors WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts second town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of the New Hampshire interested in discussing issues affecting senior citizens and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: St. Anselm Institute for Politics, 100 Saint Anselm Drive, Manchester, NH 03102 WHEN: Wednesday, February 18 from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Third townhall of the year WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts third town hall of the year WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Lakes Region Community College, Center for Arts and Technology, Room 236. 379 Belmont Road, Laconia, New Hampshire. WHEN: Thursday, February 19 from 5:30 p.m. – 6:45 p.m. ###
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Guinta participated in the House Financial Services full Committee hearing with Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro entitled, “The Future of Housing in America: Oversight of the Federal Housing Administration.” During the hearing, Congressman Guinta questioned Castro on the Federal Housing Administration’s failure to manage the agency, resulting in a $1.7 billion taxpayer funded bailout. “The fact that the FHA hasn’t met its statutory 2% capital requirement for seven consecutive fiscal years is absolutely outrageous. The housing agency’s systematic failures in managing its financial portfolio and meeting its obligations have resulted in taxpayers being forced to foot the bill for a $1.7 billion government-mandated bailout. This is unacceptable – the FHA must make significant reforms to protect taxpayers from another financial crisis and bailout.” Under the Credit Reform Act of 1992, the Federal Housing Administration is required to maintain a 2% capital requirement. The FHA failed to properly manage their funds which ultimately resulted in a $1.7 billion dollar bailout. To view Congressman Guinta’s Q&A from today’s hearing, please click here. ###
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Guinta introduced H.R. 879 - Ax the Tax on Middle Class Americans’ Health Plans Act - to repeal a harmful provision of the President’s healthcare law, known as a ‘Cadillac tax,’ which will inflict a 40% tax on middle class Americans’ health plans. The Cadillac tax will officially go into effect in 2018; however, employers, labor unions, and municipalities are anticipating this massive tax by looking at increasing deductibles, reducing benefits and shifting costs to consumers and property tax payers alike. “I’ve heard from countless municipalities back home who are absolutely terrified of this unavoidable and impending tax hike. Even worse, the non-partisan think tank American Health Policy Institute found that over 12 million middle-class American workers would see an average increase of $1,050 in higher payroll and income taxes per year. My legislation will protect workers from facing this devastating tax increase, employers from reducing workers’ benefits and municipal taxpayers who – if enacted – would experience skyrocketing property taxes. The repeal of this onerous tax has received widespread support from republicans, democrats, national unions and more.” The Ax the Tax on Middle Class Americans’ Health Plans Act is the first piece of stand-alone legislation to repeal the Cadillac Tax in the House of Representatives. To read the text of Ax the Tax on Middle Class Americans’ Health Plans Act, please click here. ###
02.05.2015	“The federal government is operating under privacy laws that haven’t been updated since 1986 resulting in their ability to conduct warrantless searches of Americans’ private emails and digital communications. In other words, the last time Congress updated these privacy laws, Patriots quarterback and four-time Super Bowl Champ, Tom Brady, was nine years old. This is a grave disservice to the American people who deserve a right to be secure in their property. We owe it to Granite Staters and the American people to modernize these outdated laws to strengthen and protect them from warrantless searches.” The “Electronic Communications Privacy Amendments Act of 2015” (ECPA) was submitted in the Senate by Senators Mike Lee (R-UT) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT). Representatives Kevin Yoder (R-KS) and Jared Polis (D-CO) sponsored the House version of the bill, the “Email Privacy Act.” To read the “Email Privacy Act,” please click here. # # #
02.04.2015	“Far too often, our veterans return home with wounds in mind and body. In New Hampshire, we have one of the highest veteran populations per capita in the nation - we know all too well how difficult a veteran’s transition into civilian life upon returning from overseas can be. I was honored to support this legislation and with the Senate’s bipartisan passage of the Clay Hunt SAV Act, we as a Congress have taken an essential step towards ensuring our service members have the very best care and resources to assist them. We must continue to find these common sense, bipartisan solutions. Our nation’s heroes deserve nothing less.” The bill now awaits the President’s signature to become law. To read the text of the Clay Hunt SAV Act, please click here. ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement following the House passage of H.R. 596: “Today, the House took action to replace the Affordable Care Act – a law that has reduced the number of full-time workers by 2.5 million, increased premiums by more than $4000, and reduced small business wages by $22.6 billion annually. Granite Staters deserve better. You deserve a patient-centered approach that puts you and your family first, protects those with preexisting conditions, and allows children to stay under their parents’ coverage until the age of 26. Likewise, our small businesses deserve the ability to pool together resources to increase their buying power, while allowing individuals to purchase insurance across state lines and restoring the more than $700 billion in Medicare cuts to our seniors.” # # #
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement following President Obama’s budget for FY2016: “The President’s $4 trillion budget is not a serious blueprint to deal with our long range fiscal concerns, and does nothing to rejuvenate our stagnant economy. Instead of placing trust in you, this budget demands a $2 trillion tax hike bringing more of your hard-earned money into Washington so they can decide how to spend it for you. You deserve better than a budget that never balances, offers no solutions to address the drivers of our debt and contains no plan for tax reform that would spur our economy. We need to reverse Washington’s “spend and tax mentality,” balance our budget and promote job creation and higher wages for Granite Staters.” # # #
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta (R-NH) launched Operation TAXPAYER, an ongoing initiative To AX Persistent Abuse of Your Earned Revenue. The first part of this initiative includes introducing H.Res 45 – a bipartisan piece of legislation cosponsored by Congresswoman Gwen Graham (D-FL). H.Res 45 would fundamentally alter the way legislation is brought to the House floor with the intention of reducing government waste and spending. Congressman Guinta released the following statement: “Last year, billions of dollars were wasted funding duplicative government programs, crowding out dollars for worthwhile programs that serve our common goal of helping those in need. This bill is a common-sense first step towards curbing this ‘spend first, pay later’ mentality. Once we begin to eliminate the waste plaguing our government, we can begin to take sizable bites out of our debt and deficit while ensuring the protection of safety net for all Americans.” H.Res 45 requires every piece of legislation awaiting consideration by the House of Representatives and the Senate to receive a “duplication score” by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS). This legislation provides Members of Congress with the knowledge necessary to identify whether or not new legislation creates programs, offices or projects that already exist in our government to ensure no new taxpayer dollars are wasted to fund duplicative projects. Congresswoman Graham released the following statement: “There’s no excuse for our government to waste billions of dollars on duplicative programs. We owe it to the taxpayers of North Florida and across our country to ensure every dollar the government spends is spent wisely. This is common sense legislation that Democrats and Republicans can both support to save money and reduce our deficit.” To read the bill, please click here. # # #
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta will be hosting his first townhall of the year to hear from Granite Staters about their legislative priorities and concerns for the 114th Congress. During this time, Guinta will also unveil and discuss his new initiative – Operation To AX Persistent Abuse of Your Earned Revenue, or Operation TAXPAYER - to save billions in taxpayer dollars by identifying and ending frivolous and duplicative government programs and projects. The townhall will take place Saturday, January 24, 2015. WHAT: Congressman Guinta hosts first townhall. WHO: Constituents of the First Congressional District of New Hampshire and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Community Room, Hampton Police Department, 100 Brown Avenue, Hampton, New Hampshire. WHEN: 1:00 p.m. to 2 p.m. Please RSVP to Danielle Adams at danielle.adams@Mail.house.gov if you are able to attend. ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the statement below following the President’s State of the Union Address: "Granite Staters have been clear about what they want from Washington. They want those elected to serve on their behalf to work together to push for shared solutions, not partisan politics. Opportunity for economic growth resides in the hope that lives in the homes on the West Side, the small businesses on the Seacoast and the beauty of our North Country - not the federal government. Our country will begin to flourish again when we reform our outdated tax code, reduce the burden of debt on our children, repeal regulations suffocating our small businesses and place our trust in you." # # #
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In response to concerns from New Hampshire residents, U.S. Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Representatives Annie Kuster (D-NH) and Frank Guinta (R-NH) are calling for an open and transparent process before any final decision is made regarding the route for Kinder Morgan's proposed Northeast Energy Direct Project. In letters to Kinder Morgan Public Affairs Director Allen Fore and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Cheryl LaFleur, the delegation urged Kinder Morgan and regulators to allow Granite Staters ample opportunity to express their views about the proposed pipeline, and work with all stakeholders to address the concerns of affected communities as the permitting process for the project continues. "It is imperative that the proposed Northeast Energy Direct Project go through a thorough federal review that provides affected stakeholders in New Hampshire with a meaningful opportunity to participate and express their views. This requires both FERC and Kinder Morgan to conduct an open and transparent process," the delegation wrote. "Therefore, we request that Kinder Morgan provide the public, municipal officials in potentially affected municipalities, and our offices with additional information on the timeline for the current pre-filing phase, and we urge you to extend that timeline to ensure that New Hampshire's residents have a full and equal opportunity to understand, assess, and comment on this project before any decisions are made finalizing the project or its route." The full text of the letter is below. January 14, 2015 Mr. Allen Fore, Director Public Affairs Kinder Morgan 3250 Lacey Road, Suite 700 Downers Grove, Il 60515 Dear Mr. Fore: We request that Kinder Morgan provide New Hampshire stakeholders a full opportunity to meaningfully express their views regarding Kinder Morgan's proposed Northeast Energy Direct Project, Docket N. PF14-22-000, before any final or binding decision is made regarding the route for this pipeline project. On December 8, 2014, Kinder Morgan filed a New Hampshire Powerline Alternative route with FERC. The new proposal shifts much of the pipeline out of northern Massachusetts - where it was originally planned - to southern New Hampshire. Specifically, the new proposed route would impact the following towns and cities in New Hampshire: Winchester, Richmond, Troy, Fitzwilliam, Rindge, New Ipswich, Greenville, Mason, Milford, Brookline, Amherst, Merrimack, Litchfield, Londonderry, Hudson, Windham, Pelham, and Salem. The citizens and municipalities along the initial proposed route benefited from several months to receive and review information, to analyze and deliberate, and to ask questions and express concerns. We strongly believe the citizens and municipalities in New Hampshire, many of whom have just learned that they may be directly impacted by this pipeline project, deserve an equal opportunity. It is imperative that the proposed Northeast Energy Direct Project go through a thorough federal review that provides affected stakeholders in New Hampshire with a meaningful opportunity to participate and express their views. This requires both FERC and Kinder Morgan to conduct an open and transparent process. Therefore, we request that Kinder Morgan provide the public, municipal officials in potentially affected municipalities, and our offices with additional information on the timeline for the current pre-filing phase, and we urge you to extend that timeline to ensure that New Hampshire's residents have a full and equal opportunity to understand, assess, and comment on this project before any decisions are made finalizing the project or its route. Please note that a similar correspondence has been sent to the Commissioners of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission requesting their timely cooperation to ensure the application and review process moves forward in a thorough and deliberate manner. Sincerely, Kelly Ayotte Jeanne Shaheen Ann McLane Kuster Frank Guinta CC: Chairman Cheryl A. LaFleur, FERC Commissioner Philip D. Moeller, FERC Commissioner Tony Clark, FERC Commissioner Norman C. Bay, FERC Commissioner Colette D. Honorable, FERC ###
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement on the passing of longtime Manchester alderman Ed Osborne: “I am beyond saddened to hear of the passing of my dear friend and cherished public servant, Ed Osborne. As one of the longest serving alderman in Manchester, there is absolutely no doubt that Ed’s years of selfless service have greatly improved our community, city and state. Ed worked tirelessly for the causes in which he believed – and, I am proud to have called him a friend and thankful to have had the opportunity to work with him. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family, friends and loved ones during this difficult time.” ###
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, Congressman Frank Guinta was appointed to serve on the House Financial Services Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and Monetary Policy and Trade. In this role, Guinta will serve as a voice for Granite State individuals, families and business owners in an effort to reign in harmful regulations preventing families and businesses from gaining access to capital to create more jobs and attain homeownership; and, also, increase oversight and accountability to bloated financial agencies, such as the CFPB. “Small business supports over 90% of the Granite State’s economy. As a member of the Financial Services Committee, I will have the unique opportunity to serve as a direct voice for middle class Granite Staters and small businesses by crafting legislation to reign in harmful regulations that are suffocating business growth, jobs and profits, while acting to increase oversight of powerful financial regulators, like the CFPB.” The House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit oversees all financial regulators, such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC,) and all matters pertaining to consumer credit, access to financial services and the safety and soundness of the banking system. The House Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade oversees policies and legislation pertaining to agencies such as the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Mint, World Bank and International Monetary Fund to promote economic stability domestic and internationally. # # #
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement after passage of H.R. 240 which reverses the President’s unilateral, executive orders on amnesty, enhances border security, provides for stringent oversight, increases transparency within the Department of Homeland Security and bolsters immigration customs enforcement: “In the Granite State, we believe deeply in the rule of law and the system of checks and balances. Unfortunately, the President’s unlawful executive orders run counter to this. I made a promise to Granite Staters to uphold our Constitution and work diligently to strengthen and reform our broken immigration system. The passage of H.R. 240 is a common-sense first step in modernizing our system to reward those who enter our borders the lawfully while holding those whom break our laws accountable.” Today, Congressman Guinta delivered a floor speech on the issue of illegal immigration. Click here to view his remarks.
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta attended a ceremony yesterday to honor and give thanks to the 3rd Battalion, 197th Field Artillery Regiment of the New Hampshire Army National Guard as they prepare to deploy to the Central Command Area of Responsibility in support of Operation Spartan Shield. “I am honored to have been given the opportunity to personally thank each and every one of the 370-plus Granite Staters whom are preparing to be the first Army National Guard unit to support this artillery mission. The men and women of the 3rd Battalion, 197th Field Artillery Regiment truly carry forward the National Guard’s mantra, ‘Always Ready, Always there.’ These troops are the very best our nation has to offer – and, our nation and the Granite State are forever indebted to them.” Congressman Guinta attended yesterday’s ceremony at Southern New Hampshire University and was joined by Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH.) To view more photos from the event, please click here. # # #
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement applauding the bipartisan passage of H.R. 3 – the Keystone XL Act: “The House of Representatives acted in true bipartisan fashion this week passing three pieces of legislation reflecting what the people of our nation have sent us to Washington to do – create more jobs and strengthen our middle class and economy. An overwhelming majority of Americans support this project because it creates over 40,000 jobs and curbs our reliance on unstable foreign oil sources by moving up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day. There are absolutely no more excuses for the Obama Administration to continue to stall this bipartisan and bicameral project.” # # #
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement on today’s passage of the bipartisan and bicameral Save American Workers Act (H.R. 30). This legislation empowers millions of Americans by restoring the traditional definition of a work week to 40 hours. It was reduced to 30 hours by the Affordable Care Act. “The President’s healthcare law has devastated middle class Granite Staters in many ways and I find it unconscionable that the federal government is mandating the loss of 25% of every paycheck for nearly 3 million Americans. The fact the President has already threatened to veto legislation restoring the 40 hour work week that would immediately increase take home pay, help grow our economy and make the lives of millions of Americans better is beyond the pale. The President’s obstruction needs to end and I urge the Senate to immediately send this legislation to the his desk.” The Save American Workers Act passed by a vote of 252-172. Congressman Guinta is an original cosponsor of the bill. To read the text of the bill, please click here.
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Frank Guinta delivered a floor speech in full support of H.R. 26, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, which passed the House of Representatives today with an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 416-5. To view the floor speech, please click here.
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Frank Guinta released the following statement today upon being sworn into the 114th Congress: “Washington is fundamentally flawed. Granite Staters have sent a clear message that they want competent and pragmatic problem solvers to fix the significant issues facing our nation today. Our primary focus must be creating bipartisan solutions that will create jobs, economic growth and prosperity. I remain committed in the fight for an aggressive reform agenda that will foster a limited, efficient and effective government. The Congressional offices in Manchester and Washington, D.C. are yours, and I look forward to serving Granite Staters in the 114th Congress.” # # #
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
